Acts 1:1-14
Monday, February 9, 2026 2:21 PM
NOTES and Q&A in app.
Key Thought:
The book of Acts records how Jesus’ mission continues
through His Spirit-empowered disciples.
A: Jesus' mission is ongoing.
Acts 1:1–3
1 In my former book, Theophilus, I wrote about all that
Jesus began to do and to teach
Former book - Luke's purpose statement is for both
books
Luke 1:1–4
1 Many have undertaken to draw up an account of
the things that have been fulfilled among us,
2 just as they were handed down to us by those who
from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the
word.
3 With this in mind, since I myself have carefully
investigated everything from the beginning, I too
decided to write an orderly account for you, most
excellent Theophilus,
Acts 1-2 Page 1

4 so that you may know the certainty of the things
you have been taught.
Began to do and teach - Acts CONTINUES Jesus's
mission
2 until the day he was taken up to heaven, after giving
instructions through the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had
chosen.
Until the day - this is the ascension, 40 days after the
resurrection.
Resurrection Sunday, April 9, AD 30
Ascension Thursday, May 18, AD 30
Pentecost Sunday, May 28, AD 30
3 After his suffering, he presented himself to them and
gave many convincing proofs that he was alive. He
appeared to them over a period of forty days and spoke
about the kingdom of God.
Presented - lit. "to stand or be present with"
Convincing proofs - Christianity from the beginning
was an evidenced-based faith; Jesus gave proof of His
resurrection!
Acts 1-2 Page 2

resurrection!
B: Jesus' mission requires the Holy Spirit.
Acts 1:4-8
4 On one occasion, while he was eating with them, he
gave them this command: “Do not leave Jerusalem, but
wait for the gift my Father promised, which you have
heard me speak about.
One occasion - during the 40 days of post-
resurrection teaching.
Do not leave - even after all His teaching, they needed
something else;
Christianity cannot live on doctrine alone.
5 For John baptized with water, but in a few days you will
be baptized with the Holy Spirit.”
Baptized - to be completely immersed in (the biblical
example)
The Holy Spirit - the 3rd member of the Trinity
6 Then they gathered around him and asked him, “Lord,
are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to
Israel?”
Acts 1-2 Page 3

Restore the Kingdom - the disciples did not
understand and tried to interpret through their own
expectations.
7 He said to them: “It is not for you to know the times or
dates the Father has set by his own authority.
It is not for you - Jesus didn't deny the restoration of
the kingdom, but re-directed their focus
8 But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes
on you; and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in
all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.”
Will receive power - the Holy Spirit is the POWER to
be a WITNESS for Jesus' mission.
C: Jesus' mission continues in His physical absence.
Acts 1:9-11
9 After he said this, he was taken up before their very
eyes, and a cloud hid him from their sight.
After he said this - waiting on the Spirit was the last
directive given by the Savior
Taken up - literally "up" from their place/view
10 They were looking intently up into the sky as he was
going, when suddenly two men dressed in white stood
Acts 1-2 Page 4

going, when suddenly two men dressed in white stood
beside them.
Two men - angelic messengers
11 “Men of Galilee,” they said, “why do you stand here
looking into the sky? This same Jesus, who has been
taken from you into heaven, will come back in the same
way you have seen him go into heaven.”
Why do you stand here - the angels have to rebuke
them a little, because they are staying in the moment
instead of being obedient to the Savior's instructions!
Will come back - this is the promised return of Jesus
D: Jesus' mission includes all his followers.
Acts 1:12-14
12 Then the apostles returned to Jerusalem from the hill
called the Mount of Olives, a Sabbath day’s walk from the
city.
13 When they arrived, they went upstairs to the room
where they were staying. Those present were Peter, John,
James and Andrew; Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and
Matthew; James son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot,
and Judas son of James.
14 They all joined together constantly in prayer, along
Acts 1-2 Page 5

14 They all joined together constantly in prayer, along
with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with
his brothers.
Along with the women - women of faith, possibly
wives of some of the apostles, but also members in
their own right
Mary - the mother of Jesus
His brothers - these would be the half-brothers of
Jesus; this leaves open the possibility that Jesus
appeared to non-believers after His resurrection.
The Takeaway:
Jesus' mission is carried out by His Spirit-empowered
followers today just as it was in the first days of the
Church.
Acts 1-2 Page 6

Acts 1:15-26
Tuesday, February 17, 2026 7:25 PM
NOTES and Q&A in app.
Key Thought:
The book of Acts records how Jesus’ mission continues
through His Spirit-empowered disciples.
A: Peters leads the earliest followers.
Acts 1:15–17
15 In those days Peter stood up among the believers (a
group numbering about a hundred and twenty)
Those days - the days between the ascension and
Pentecost
About 120 - more than the 12; Rabbinic tradition
states it takes 120 to establish a local Sanhedrin
16 and said, “Brothers and sisters, the Scripture had to be
fulfilled in which the Holy Spirit spoke long ago through
David concerning Judas, who served as guide for those
who arrested Jesus.
Brothers and sisters - "believers" all those in the
community
Acts 1-2 Page 7

community
Scripture… Holy Spirit - Peter is confirming the
authority of the Old Testament as the words of the
Holy Spirit
Through David - Peter is quoting Psalms
Concerning Judas - these are more likely allusions,
not prophecy
Served as a guide - the betrayal is what is highlighted
17 He was one of our number and shared in our
ministry.”
One of our number - Judas was one of the original 12
Shared… our ministry - Judas was promised to rule
with the group over Israel in Matt 19:28 / Luke
22:28-30
B: Judas' betrayal creates a leadership gap.
Acts 1:18-19
18 (With the payment he received for his wickedness,
Judas bought a field; there he fell headlong, his body
burst open and all his intestines spilled out.
Acts 1-2 Page 8

burst open and all his intestines spilled out.
Bought a field - Matthew 27:6-7 says the priests
bought the field. If they did so with the money he left
Fell headlong - Matt 27:5 says Judas hanged himself.
These are easily harmonized as his body fell after
swelling in the heat and sun.
Why the difference?
Matthew is a Jewish writer. Luke is a Gentile. Both
authors used a means of death that was
"accursed" in their cultural language. Gentiles
viewed suicide as an honorable death, Luke rules
this out and focuses on being cursed, like Matthew
in his cultural context.
19 Everyone in Jerusalem heard about this, so they called
that field in their language Akeldama, that is, Field of
Blood.)
Everyone - this was a well-known fact at the time
Akeldama - this is an Aramaic word, the 'bro-speak'
language
20 “For,” said Peter, “it is written in the Book of Psalms:
“ ‘May his place be deserted; let there be no one to dwell
Acts 1-2 Page 9

“ ‘May his place be deserted; let there be no one to dwell
in it,’ and, “ ‘May another take his place of leadership.’
It is written - Peter is applying Scripture, he's not re-
writing the meaning of these Psalms.
C: Mathias is added to restore the twelve.
Acts 1:21-26
21 Therefore it is necessary to choose one of the men
who have been with us the whole time the Lord Jesus was
living among us,
It is necessary - Peter saw the restoration of the
twelve as necessary. Likely because of the promise to
"rule" over the 12 tribes.
Been with us - this person must have all the same
witnessed experiences as the other apostles
22 beginning from John’s baptism to the time when Jesus
was taken up from us. For one of these must become a
witness with us of his resurrection.”
Baptism… taken up - Peter is clear the only qualified
apostolic replacements can be those who were
physically present at witnessed the entire earthly
ministry of Jesus.
Acts 1-2 Page 10

ministry of Jesus.
Of his resurrection - the key fact was being a witness
of the resurrection. This is why no other apostles
EQUAL TO THE ORIGINALS can exist today.
23 So they nominated two men: Joseph called Barsabbas
(also known as Justus) and Matthias.
Two men - there were at least two men who met the
requirements in the group of 120 mentioned in v15
24 Then they prayed, “Lord, you know everyone’s heart.
Show us which of these two you have chosen
They prayed - this was a decision of the Lord, not of
humans
Show us - the request for the Lord to make the
decision
25 to take over this apostolic ministry, which Judas left to
go where he belongs.”
Take over - the one selected would continue the
apostolic ministry vacated by Judas
Acts 1-2 Page 11

Apostolic ministry - laying the foundation of the faith
on the eye-witnesses evidence of the resurrection
Judas left to go - this refers to his betrayal, not his
death
26 Then they cast lots, and the lot fell to Matthias; so he
was added to the eleven apostles.
They cast lots - this is a totally acceptable form as
seeking the Lord's decision from Proverbs 16:33
Added to the eleven - this restored the "renewed
Israel" and possibly fulfilled the 12th seat of
judgement in Christ's coming kingdom.
This is NOT a line of succession.
The apostles appointed elders, not new apostles after
their generation of leadership.
Matthias isn't mentioned in the gospels!
Yet, he was called by God to serve at the time of
God's choosing to serve on mission.
3 Categories of Apostles in the New Testament:
1: The Twelve: the original disciples (plus Matthias)
Acts 1-2 Page 12

1: The Twelve: the original disciples (plus Matthias)
2: Resurrection Apostles: Called directly by the Risen
Christ (Paul, Barnabas, and James)
3: Missionary Apostles: those who are “sent” to carry
the gospel message
The Takeaway:
The original apostles completed the foundation. We
must continue the mission.
Acts 1-2 Page 13

Acts 2:1-13
Wednesday, February 25, 2026 10:06 AM
NOTES and Q&A in app.
Key Thought:
The book of Acts records how Jesus’ mission continues
through His Spirit-empowered disciples.
A: The Gift of the Holy Spirit
Acts 2:1–4
1 When the day of Pentecost came, they were all
together in one place.
Pentecost - lit. 50th because it was 50 days after the
Feast of First Fruits; it later became a holiday to
commemorate the giving of the Law at Mt Sinai
They - the group of believers mentioned in Acts 1:15
(120)
All together - the unity of the church
Holy Living Parallel:
In the OT, the Law guided the faithful to live set apart for
God, in the NT the Holy Spirit draws to holy living.
Acts 1-2 Page 14

2 Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind
came from heaven and filled the whole house where they
were sitting.
Suddenly - quickly, abruptly, without warning
Sound - the Holy Spirit's arrival was audible
Like a violent wind - lit. "sound like rushing strong
wind"
From heaven - the source of the Spirit is from heaven
Filled the whole house - the impact of the Spirit's
arrival was immersive, "filled the whole house"
3 They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that
separated and came to rest on each of them.
They - the unity of 120 believers
They saw - the arrival of the Spirit was visual
Tongues of fire - the shape of a flame is much like a
tongue
Separated - a single flame separated to all believers
Acts 1-2 Page 15

Each of them - this is the full 120, not just men;
Unlike the OT when the Spirit would rest on an
individual for a specific time or purpose, now in the
NT the Spirit is given to all believers.
4 All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to
speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them.
All of them - again, the whole group of 120 is in view
Filled with the Holy Spirit - fulfilling Jesus' words from
Acts 1:5
Speak - this is the physical action of speaking, using
words
In others tongues - physically speaking unlearned
language
The Spirit enabled them - this ability came from the
Spirit
B: The Reception of the Holy Spirit
Acts 2:5–4
5 Now there were staying in Jerusalem God-fearing Jews
from every nation under heaven.
Acts 1-2 Page 16

from every nation under heaven.
Now there were - transitional focus change
Staying in Jerusalem - because of the celebration of
Pentecost. Lev 23 required travel to Jerusalem for the
holiday
God-fearing Jews - those who lived through the
roman world
Every nation - the focus of the gospel message, as
Jesus said in Acts 1:8; James 1:1 and Peter 1:1
references diaspora Jews "scattered" among the
nations
6 When they heard this sound, a crowd came together in
bewilderment, because each one heard their own
language being spoken.
When they heard - the people on the street heard the
sound of the Spirit's arrival and the languages being
spoken
A crowd came together - the curiosity factor "what's
this?"
7 Utterly amazed, they asked: “Aren’t all these who are
Acts 1-2 Page 17

7 Utterly amazed, they asked: “Aren’t all these who are
speaking Galileans?
Utterly amazed - amazed; astound; astonish
Who are speaking - some in the crowd recognized the
disciples and followers were from Galilee
8 Then how is it that each of us hears them in our native
language?
How is it that - the miracle was in the speaking, not
the hearing. To place the miracle in the hearing would
be the opposite of Holy Spirit activity as the crowd did
not receive the Spirit, the followers did.
Each of us hears - this describes the hearing of the
speaking
9 Parthians, Medes and Elamites; residents of
Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
10 Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya
near Cyrene; visitors from Rome
11 (both Jews and converts to Judaism); Cretans and
Arabs—we hear them declaring the wonders of God in
our own tongues!”
Acts 1-2 Page 18

our own tongues!”
Places… - these are places all over the Mediterranean
world at the time, all had pockets of Jewish citizens.
Our own tongues - not Greek or Aramaic, but the
native cultural languages of their location
12 Amazed and perplexed, they asked one another,
“What does this mean?”
What does this mean? - this is a pivotal moment, the
crowd goes from just observing to seeking
understanding. This also leads to the
13 Some, however, made fun of them and said, “They
have had too much wine.”
Some, however - some in the crowd assumed an
earthly conclusion, they were drunk
The Takeaway:
The arrival of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost empowers all
believers to begin the mission of being witnesses of the
new covenant now now available in Christ. in Jesus
Christ.
Acts 1-2 Page 19

Christ.
Acts 1-2 Page 20

Acts 2:25-36
Wednesday, March 11, 2026 10:22 AM
NOTES and Q&A in app.
Key Thought:
The book of Acts records how Jesus’ mission continues
through His Spirit-empowered disciples.
This is the second part of Peter's sermon, explaining the
arrival of the Holy Spirit from the Scriptures and pointing
to the fact that Jesus is God and Messiah.
A: God raised Jesus from the dead
Acts 2:24–36
24 But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from
the agony of death, because it was impossible for death
to keep its hold on him.
God raised him - despite the actions of 'wicked men'
God raised Jesus
From the agony of death - Christianity is new life, not
just death
Impossible… hold on him - even death cannot "hold"
or restrain Jesus, because He is God
Acts 1-2 Page 21

25 David said about him: “ ‘I saw the Lord always before
me. Because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken.
David said - Peter quotes King David from Psalm 16.
This psalm is one of confidence and security in God
I will not be shaken - Ps 16:8, Peter's confidence in
God mirrors the example given from David
B: David prophesied Jesus' resurrection.
26 Therefore my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices; my
body also will rest in hope,
Therefore - Ps 16:9, because of the security found in
God
Heart is glad - an emotional response
My tongue rejoices - a worship response
My body will rest in hope - a faithful response
27 because you will not abandon me to the realm of the
dead, you will not let your holy one see decay.
Because - Ps 16:10, David grounds his confidence in
Acts 1-2 Page 22

Because - Ps 16:10, David grounds his confidence in
his own resurrection on God's future resurrection of
His promised Messiah, "holy one"
Will not let - David's psalm is a prophecy predicting
the resurrection of Jesus
28 You have made known to me the paths of life; you will
fill me with joy in your presence.’
You have made - Ps 16:11, God, David's true
Shepherd, has taught him the 'paths of life'
Fill me with joy - David's response to God's presence
C: Peter Explains David's Prophecy
29 “Fellow Israelites, I can tell you confidently that the
patriarch David died and was buried, and his tomb is here
to this day.
Fellow Israelites - in Jerusalem at Pentecost, the
primary audience are Jews from around the Roman
world, mentioned earlier
Tell you confidently - Peter is speaking from what he
KNOWS, just feels
David died and was buried - this is reality. David
Acts 1-2 Page 23

David died and was buried - this is reality. David
wrote a Messianic psalm that looked forward to
Jesus, "holy one" cannot be David speaking about
himself
30 But he was a prophet and knew that God had
promised him on oath that he would place one of his
descendants on his throne.
He was a prophet - speaking of David in this Psalm
God promised him - the Davidic promise; a "forever
king"
31 Seeing what was to come, he spoke of the resurrection
of the Messiah, that he was not abandoned to the realm
of the dead, nor did his body see decay.
Resurrection of the Messiah - David's "holy one" is
Jesus
Not abandoned/decay - this is David's prophetic view
of the resurrection of Jesus
32 God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all
witnesses of it.
Acts 1-2 Page 24

God raised this Jesus - in line with David's psalm, God
raised Jesus, as David prophesied, and the apostles
are all witnesses
33 Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from
the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out
what you now see and hear.
Exalted to the right hand of God - Jesus, now
ascended
From the Father… Holy Spirit - Jesus said the same
thing
Now see and hear - the arrival of the Spirit was not
emotional or ecstatic… it was seen and heard by non-
believers!
34 For David did not ascend to heaven, and yet he said,
“ ‘The Lord said to my Lord: “Sit at my right hand
David did not ascend - the "holy one" cannot be
David speaking about himself
The Lord said to my Lord - both are /kyrios/ or 'one
who holds authority'
Acts 1-2 Page 25

35 until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet.” ’
36 “Therefore let all Israel be assured of this: God has
made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and
Messiah.”
Therefore - the conclusion of his David argument
God made this Jesus - the same one 'wicked men'
crucified
Lord and Messiah - Lord (one with authority),
Messiah (God's Anointed One "holy one")
The Takeaway:
A thousand years before Jesus, King David prophesied
that God's Messiah would rise from the dead — and in
Jesus, that prophecy was fulfilled.
Acts 1-2 Page 26

Acts 2:36-47
Tuesday, March 17, 2026 12:04 PM
NOTES and Q&A in app.
Key Thought:
The book of Acts records how Jesus’ mission continues
through His Spirit-empowered disciples.
This is the response Peter's Pentecost sermon explaining
the arrival of the Holy Spirit and proclaiming Jesus is God
and Messiah.
Acts 2:36–47
A: Peter's Conclusion: Jesus is Lord and Messiah
36 “Therefore let all Israel be assured of this: God has
made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and
Messiah.”
Therefore - the conclusion of Peter's sermon: God has
made Jesus Lord and Messiah
B: The crowd responds to Peter's sermon.
Acts 2:37-41
37 When the people heard this, they were cut to the
Acts 1-2 Page 27

37 When the people heard this, they were cut to the
heart and said to Peter and the other apostles, “Brothers,
what shall we do?”
When they heard - immediate response to hearing
Cut to the heart - lit. greatly troubled of the heart
Brothers - /adelphos/ family member or kin
What shall we do - a point of action
38 Peter replied, “Repent and be baptized, every one of
you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of
your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Repent - lit. 'change one's mind' ; most often means
to change one's orientation towards God
Repentance isn’t feeling sorry for sin— it’s changing
how you think and live because Jesus is Lord.
Be baptized - to be momentarily immersed in water
In the name of Jesus Christ - Jesus is now the
definitive object of faith
For the forgiveness of sins - the Greek grammar rules
out this being required for salvation. It is BECAUSE of
Acts 1-2 Page 28

out this being required for salvation. It is BECAUSE of
the forgiveness, not to manufacture it
Sins - Peter's audience is Jewish, they understood sin
and consequences
39 The promise is for you and your children and for all
who are far off—for all whom the Lord our God will call.”
The promise - of forgiveness of sins in Christ
You and your children - much like the "everlasting
inheritance" of the Abrahamic Covenant
All who are far off - Peter's audience are from "far
off" places celebrating Pentecost; this could include
Gentiles, but likely is diaspora Jews
All whom… God will call - Jews were already familiar
with the concept of God calling a people to Himself,
Peter uses this understanding to now speak of Jesus
as the object through whom they are called
40 With many other words he warned them; and he
pleaded with them, “Save yourselves from this corrupt
generation.”
Many other words - this is a summary of the sermon,
Acts 1-2 Page 29

Many other words - this is a summary of the sermon,
not the entire thing
Save yourselves - by 'changing the way they think and
act' towards Jesus
Corrupt generation - who killed Jesus
41 Those who accepted his message were baptized, and
about three thousand were added to their number that
day.
Those who accepted - changing the way they think
and act towards Jesus, ie trusting in Him as the object
of forgiveness of sins before God
Were baptized - immersed in water; a symbol of
ritual cleansing, dedication, and now identification
with Christ's death & resurrection
C: The early church was a community of faith.
Acts 2:37-41
42 They devoted themselves to the apostles’ teaching and
to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer.
Devoted themselves - lit. "to be persistent, keep with
Acts 1-2 Page 30

Devoted themselves - lit. "to be persistent, keep with
devotion, to adhere to"; the action is continual,
Apostles teaching - doctrine/right teaching
Fellowship - lit. "close mutual association
43 Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders
and signs performed by the apostles.
Everyone - the audience on the street
Wonders and signs - like the OT prophets
44 All the believers were together and had everything in
common.
All the believers - this would include all Christians at
the time, this is first example of what the Christian
community is supposed to look like
Everything in common - this is voluntary and not
forced or mandated
45 They sold property and possessions to give to anyone
who had need.
Acts 1-2 Page 31

Sold property - voluntary acts of generosity
Anyone who had need - meeting needs is the original
way the gospel spread.
46 Every day they continued to meet together in the
temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate
together with glad and sincere hearts,
Every day - community isn't only on the weekends
Meet together - relationship is built over time
Temple courts - the relationship is religious
47 praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people.
And the Lord added to their number daily those who were
being saved.
Praising God - God is the focus of the community of
faith, not the people
Favor of all the people - Christians, though outsiders,
had a good reputation among the people
The Lord added to their number - salvation is a work
of God in the lives of men. He works to draw people
Acts 1-2 Page 32

of God in the lives of men. He works to draw people
to Himself and people respond. Both sides of the
debate agree with this.
The Takeaway:
The Church is a community of people changed in thought
and action because Jesus is Lord.
Acts 1-2 Page 33