Good morning, everyone. For all of you who are joining us online, my microphone wasn't on in the room, but it was probably on for you. And so that means a big round of applause to our sound techs who are doing the other half of the sound because they do the job better than me. Thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family. For those of you who do not know me, my name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here at Catalyst Community Church. For all of you who are online or in our live chat this morning, thank you for being to worship with us and be a part of our family. Here at Catalyst, our vision is to be a family that represents Christ by doing three things, by meeting needs, by building relationships, and by maturing Christians. That's our vision. We want to be a church that represents Jesus, meeting needs, building relationships, and maturing Christians. And this is what we do as a church. And part of the main focus in our view of a church service is for us to grow in our spiritual maturity. But it's also to grow in our community and our capacity to do ministry together. I just want to say a big thank you to Pastor Tyler. My father and I were on vacation Sunday, and I went back after I got home and I listened to Pastor Tyler's sermon, and he did such a fantastic job with the section before the one we're gonna study. So Pastor Tyler, thank you so much. You saw, yeah, please, he did a great job. It is absolutely a privilege to have a young man like Tyler on staff and working here at Catalyst because his character is impeccable, his heart is amazing, and I thought he did a fantastic job. This is your first Sunday with us. We are walking through the first chapters of the Book of Acts, and we are learning about the early church. Let me go ahead and give you the key thought that's going to kind of bootstrap all of the messages in this series together. Here it is. The Book of Acts records how Jesus's, or Jesus' mission, continues through his Spirit-empowered disciples. If you were to ask me to craft a single sentence that could summarize or best explain what is the Book of Acts actually about, that's it. The Book of Acts records how Jesus' mission continues through his Spirit-empowered disciples. And those of you who brought your Bibles, you can turn or tap with me to Acts chapter two. If you are using the Catalyst app, just a couple of things I want to note. If you have the Catalyst app on your phone, the today's sermon notes will be in there. Thank you, dear. If you open up the Catalyst app, bottom left-hand corner, you see a little button there that says Sermon Notes. It's blue with a white notebook on it. If you tap on that, you will have access to all of our notes, and you will also be able to ask questions. And that's kind of the important part, is I want you to be able to ask questions. As we go through and we study scripture, this is a dialogue, not a monologue. Granted, a lot of what I have to do up here today is a monologue, but I want to be able to dialogue with you about scripture. So if you will open up the notes, you'll see there's a little speech bubble button. You tap on that, you can type your notes into it. And if you tap the question button, it'll open a form and you can ask a question. If you're online and you're in our live chat, you can absolutely ask a question. Our live chat host will give you a link that you can ask. Before we dive into the Book of Acts, however, let's remind ourselves how we get here. So again, if you're new, joining us online or here, this is an interactive part of the service. We call this the Big Bible Story. We're gonna start at the beginning of the Bible, and we're gonna tell the story of scripture, getting us all the way to where we are, and then we're gonna dive in. So here we go. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Onto the earth, he planted a garden at a place called Eden. Into Eden, he made two human beings, Adam and Eve. And he had two children, Cain and? And then we had a murder. So creation goes off the rails pretty quickly. Sin enters the equation, Adam and Eve are forced out of the garden. God begins to regret that he made human beings and decides to send a flood. But he finds a single righteous man, and he tells that man, you're gonna build an ark, you're gonna get an ark with your wife, your sons and their wives, and you will be saved from the coming flood. The man who was selected by God to build the ark is? Noah. God and his family build the ark, it rains, then the rain subsides, they park the ark, they get off, and life begins to renew. Unfortunately, sin is in our human nature now, and so sin followed them out of the ark, and God says, okay, we're gonna do this another way. And he found a man living in Mesopotamia, in a place called Ur of the Chaldeans, and he says, you, you're my people, you be my people. I'm gonna be your God, and you're gonna be my people, and I'm gonna bless those who bless you, and I'm gonna curse those who curse you, and we're gonna bring out a mighty nation from your descendants. And when God made that promise, he changed that man's name to? Abraham. Abraham then have two sons, and God repeats that same covenant promise. I will be your God, you will be my people, I will bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you, a mighty nation that will bless the whole world will come from you. The name of Abraham's younger son who became the second covenant inheritor is? Isaac. Isaac then also has two sons, and similarly, God repeats the covenant promise to the younger of Isaac's two sons. I will be your God, and you will be my people, I will bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you, I will give you a land that will be a forever inheritance, and from you a mighty nation will come that will bless the whole world. The name of Isaac's second born son to become the third covenant inheritor is? Jacob. Jacob then has like a lot of kids, like a lot a lot. Jacob has a lot of kids, and those kids grow up and their names become what we now know as the 12 tribes of Israel. But the second youngest of Jacob's sons had a little bit of an ego problem. I don't know if you can identify with that, I can identify with that, Jim definitely can identify with that. So, I wasn't here Jim, so I gotta take a couple of jabs to make up for missing last week. Jacob's sons sell their second youngest brother into slavery, into the land of Egypt, where he's there for give or take 13 something years and he's serving as a slave, and he rises all the way up to the palace to become second in charge of the nation. The name of Jacob's second youngest son who was sold as a slave but then becomes a ruler is? Joseph. And now we've made it to the end of the book of Genesis. For those of you this is your first Sunday, every book is not that slow. We're gonna pick up the pace. So, God works through Joseph, puts him in the right place, gives him a spirit given gift to interpret dreams, sends a dream, God's people move into Egypt, they move into the land of Goshen and they begin to be blessed and multiply because they are protected by Egypt's economy and Egypt's military. And I call it the Egyptian incubator. God's people just begin to grow. And they grow so much and they're so blessed that Pharaoh begins to get nervous and he begins to persecute them and he enslaves them and he murders their children, which then calls for them to call out for deliverer. And God chooses a man born in the palace but raised in the pasture to send him in as a deliverer. And the man that God chose to be the deliverer of the nation of Israel to bring them out of Egypt is? Moses, that's right. Whose older brother is? Aaron and whose older sister is? Miriam. And together God works through Moses and Aaron and they lead the children of Israel out and they make it all the way to a body of water and the army is coming behind them and the water's in front of them and they're like, oh my God, what am I gonna do? And God takes a bit, that was a direct quote by the way. And Moses takes his staff and he places it into this body of water and the body of water stands up and they walk across on dry ground. The name of the body of water that Israel crosses on dry ground to escape the Egyptians is the? Red Sea. Red Sea. They cross the Red Sea and they're supposed to go directly to God's promised land that he promised all the way back to Abraham in Genesis 12, repeated in 14, covenant ratified in 15. We are now hundreds of years later and they're gonna inherit the land that was given back then but they have a disobedience problem. They're at the foot of a very particular mountain. Moses goes up the mountain to receive the law and while he is up at the top of the mountain, Aaron is acting a fool and leading children of Israel in worshiping a false idol. The name of the mountain on which Moses received the law is Mount Sinai, which is why we call it the Sinatic covenant or the Sinai covenant. They're disobedient and for their disobedience, God puts his children in timeout. They have to wander in the wilderness. This is the book of Numbers, the book of Deuteronomy. They wander in the wilderness for how long? For 40 years. After the 40 years, the adult generation who was in leadership of Israel at the time of the Exodus has all died off. There are still people who experienced the Exodus who moved into Canaan. One of those people was a young man who would sit outside the tent of meeting when Moses would meet with Yahweh and he was raised up to be Moses' successor. The name of the young man who leads the children of Israel after Moses is? Joshua. Joshua then takes over command. He leads the children of Israel. They rededicate themselves to God. They cross the Jordan River, which also by the way, parts and they walk on dry ground, just like the Red Sea, and they begin to move into God's promised land. But they didn't finish moving out everyone who was there and so they begin to intermarry and disobedience happens again. I don't know if you noticed the theme, but we tend to be really disobedient to God. And now they've moved in and they're living there. We get to the judges period. The book of Judges is typified by a single statement. Everyone does what is right in their own eyes. What they thought was right. Sounds an awful lot like our society today. Everybody chooses what's right. They ultimately lead to a final rejection of God's authority when they ask God for something that they were never supposed to have, but they wanna have it like all the other kids have. What did Israel ask God for that they were never supposed to have? A? A king. God was supposed to be their king and they were supposed to be his kingdom. But God says, no, I want a king like all the other kids have. So God says, okay, I'm gonna give you a king, but you're not gonna like it. It's not gonna be good for you. He's gonna take your sons and put them in the army and he's gonna take your daughters and he's gonna put them in your harem and then he's gonna give you taxes. But that's what you asked for. So Pete, here you go. First king of the United Monarchy of Israel is? Saul, followed by? Followed by? So I just wanna know if I waited for a minute if anybody would change their answer. The first king is? Saul, that's correct. The second king is? David. And the third king is? Solomon. And after Solomon, what happens? Civil war. God's people fracture into two nations, the Northern Kingdom of Israel and the Southern Kingdom of Judah. This is the part that most Christians don't learn about the Old Testament. For the entire middle of the Old Testament, there are two nations, the Northern Kingdom of Israel and the Southern Kingdom of Judah. How many tribes are up here? 10, how many tribes are down here? Two, and they live this way and they have separate kings and they have separate prophets and that's why we have all these really cool prophetic books in the Old Testament. But they're still in disobedience, so God says, guys, you're gonna have to have another time out. So God uses an external pagan nation to invade the Northern Kingdom of Israel and carry them off into captivity. The name of the first pagan nation God uses to discipline his children? Assyria. While they're in Assyria, Assyria falls to another rising nation state and Assyria is defeated by? Babylon. Then Babylon comes in and invades the Southern Kingdom of Judah, like 586-ish BC and they are carried off into captivity. That's the book of Daniel. Daniel's carried off into the Babylonian captivity. It's also the book of Jeremiah and Jeremiah writes a very important thing. He says, you will be there for 70 years. If you would allow me to paraphrase the prophet, he literally said, my bros, literally, my bros, you're gonna be there for 70 years. Marry, marry your sons, marry your daughters, plant gardens, build buildings. After 70 years, I will come back for my people. So now they're in Babylon for 70 years. That's Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, Daniel serving in Babylonian government service and Daniel is there for the moment when God judges Babylon and Babylon falls to a third pagan nation coming up. What's the name of the third pagan nation that defeats Babylon? Persia. The power of Persia rises and Persia says, guess what? Y'all can all go home. And Persia allows all the people who are displaced by Babylon to go home. Here's your Ezra, here's your Nehemiah, here's your book of Esther that happens during the Persian period where Esther has to pray and God's people are saved because there's a Persian government official who's trying to kill all of God's people. They get back to home, they rebuild the temple, they restart worship and God sends a few more prophets to the end of the Old Testament, one of whom gives them a message. I have not forgotten you. I'm gonna send you my promised one, my anointed one. What is the Hebrew word, this one I've never asked before, what is the Hebrew word that means God's anointed one? I heard it, Messiah, that's right. I will send you my Messiah, my anointed one, my chosen one and you'll know it's him because he'll have a forerunner that comes before him. And then close the book, that's the end of the Hebrew Bible, what we call the Old Testament. And then there's silence. How long between the end of the Old Testament and the beginning of the New Testament? 400 years. God breaks his 400 year silence by sending an angel into the temple to speak to a man who is a priest who's serving on duty, selected by lot to worship and burn incense in the Holy of Holies and the angel shows up to the right side of the altar, which you could only know if you were this actual guy. What's the name of the man who first hears God's silence breaking in the temple? Zechariah. And the angel tells Zechariah, you will have a son and he will belong to me from the time he's born. He can't cut his hair, he can't have alcohol and he will lead the way to the Messiah. Then God sends another angel to a woman pledged to be married to a carpenter named Joseph, who's actually, carpenter's kind of a bad term. It means builder, so that probably means Joseph the carpenter in our term, carpentry works with wood. The term in Greek actually works with wood, stone, like a builder guy, a Fred. I mean a Fred, but with less ADHD, right? So you're gonna have a promised son and he will be the one to save his people. The name of the very important young lady who God selects to be the mother of his God incarnate son is? Mary. And the super more important son who comes from her is? Jesus. Jesus, that's like a big deal character, you need to know that one. Jesus is born. We have a small story in his childhood and then we get to his at or about 30th year. He's baptized by his cousin filled with the Holy Spirit. He does ministry, he brings together a group of apostles. This is probably the most familiar part of the Bible. And then he's executed by crucifixion, spoiler alert, he doesn't stay dead. He rises from the grave on Sunday, April the 9th, AD 30, and the resurrection occurs. But he doesn't leave town. He rises from the grave and he stays here on earth in resurrected form for how long? Somebody say it, say it louder. 40 days. For 40 days the resurrected Christ taught his disciples in full glorified form. And at the end of the 40 days he says, okay my bros wait, don't go anywhere, stay in Jerusalem until you receive the gift my father's promised. The ascension happens 40 days after April the 9th and then they wait for 10 days and then there's a Jewish holiday taking place in the city of Jerusalem when the Holy Spirit falls and the church as you and I know it is born. What is the name of the Jewish holiday on which the Christian church was born? Pentecost. And that's Acts chapter two. We've made it from creation to Acts chapter two. The Holy Spirit falls, now we looked at this over the last few weeks. The Holy Spirit falls, there's audible signs, there's visual signs, there's spirit gift active signs. The group upstairs, which I'm gonna say is the full 120, not just the 12, if you'd like to debate that you can let me know on your connect card. But I believe it's the 120, men and women speaking in tongues fulfilling Joel chapter two. Peter comes downstairs, he preaches a sermon to the crowd that has now gathered wondering what is this noise? That was Pastor Tyler's sermon last week. I will finish the latter part of Peter's sermon. So if you haven't heard Pastor Tyler's sermon from last week, he did an amazing job. He teed up the first half of Peter's sermon. I get the privilege of teaching the second half of Peter's sermon, which brings us to Acts chapter two, verse, and I'm actually gonna start in 24, which I realized was the last verse of Pastor Tyler's sermon last week. That's intentional so that I can dovetail these two points together. So we're gonna read Acts chapter two, 24 to 36, and then we're gonna get into it. Here we go. Acts chapter two, beginning in verse 24. But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. David said about him, I saw the Lord always before me. He is at my right hand and I will not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices. My body will also rest in hope, because you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead. You will not let your Holy One see decay. You have made known to me the paths of life. You fill me with your joy in your presence. Fellow Israelites, I can tell you confidently that the patriarch David died and was buried, and his tomb is here to this day. But he was a prophet, and he knew God had promised him on oath that he would place one of his descendants on his throne. Seeing what was to come, he spoke of the resurrection of the Messiah, that he was not abandoned to the realm of the dead, nor did his body see decay. God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses of it. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from God the Father, the promised Holy Spirit, and he has poured out what you now see and hear. For David did not ascend to heaven, and yet he said, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, Lord and Messiah. Stop. Peter's ended on a high note. Pastor Tyler warmed it up, and now I gotta try to bring it in. All right, so let's rewind and get back here to verse 24. Mel, my brown leather communion Bible should be somewhere on that sound booth. If somebody could just bring it in, I need it in a minute. Okay, verse 24, thank you, man. I'm gonna pick up, well, this was the last verse of Pastor Tyler's sermon last week. But God raised him from the dead. So this is the conclusion of what Pastor Tyler showed you last week. He's talking, Peter is speaking about the resurrection. He said that you wicked men put Jesus to death, if you read in 22, 23, 24, you wicked men put Jesus to death, but God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. So as I come into the end of this sermon, a couple things you need to understand. First, God himself rose Jesus from the dead. Second, the agony of death, as Peter describes it, Christianity is a religion of new life, not a religion of death. We are not just a religion of a dead, crucified savior. We are a religion of a risen spirit-empowered savior. It's super important to understand the difference because ever since we got out of the Reformation, the most of the time when we preach the gospel, we preach a savior who died to purchase forgiveness for our sins. That's not theologically wrong, but it's not theologically whole. If I just challenge you at some point, we had to do this for one of my classes in school. I went through every single sermon that was preached in the book of Acts. I just read through the book of Acts, found every sermon, whether it's Peter, whether it's Paul, whether it's, there's one in there that's, what was his name? The first guy who got killed somewhere. Stephen, thank you. Stephen, you look at all of their sermons. They never talked about the death of Jesus with also talking about the resurrection of Jesus. And that's what Christianity is, and Peter's kind of laying the foundation of that here in 24. And then he says, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. Why is it impossible for death to keep its hold on Jesus? Well, we're going to get to the fact that Jesus is God. Right? Death doesn't hold God. Death doesn't hold back. God's anything. It's impossible for death to hold or to restrain Jesus because Jesus is God. But Peter also wants to show you that the resurrection of Jesus was prophesied long before this moment. You just gotta remember in your mind, if we were on the streets of Jerusalem on this day, there is 120 people in that upstairs room up there and they're all talking in tongues in different languages, more than a dozen different languages. And that brought a whole crowd of people on the street together. And if you continue reading in chapter two, you're gonna find out that 3,000 people got saved. Peter preached for three minutes and 3,000 people got saved. I'm gonna preach for like 30 to 45 minutes and maybe three people get saved. So I got a lot of work to do. I gotta get better. But as we open, you gotta see, God raised Jesus from the dead. And now here we're gonna talk about the fact that the resurrection of Jesus was actually prophesied by King David ahead of time. Look at 25. David said about him, stop. Who is David? David is King David. We talked about him in the big Bible story. Second ruler of the United Monarchy of Israel, a man who had God's own heart, also an adulterer, like let's not take one without the other, right? He had his ups and he had his downs. But King David was also an author of scripture about a fifth of the book of Psalms or written by King David. We have his words with us today. And that is what Peter uses to justify the resurrection of Jesus was prophesied long before. He uses David as the prophet. And here in verse 25, he said, David said about him, who's the him? Jesus, because Jesus is the object of Peter's sermon. David said about him, Jesus, I saw the Lord always before me because he is at my right hand. I will not be shaken. Now, those of you who like notes, you wanna write down Psalm 16. That is the specific Psalm that Peter is quoting here. And when I get to the conclusion of my sermon, I'm gonna read you all of Psalm 16. But if you're taking notes, now's a great time. You can write that down. Also, don't forget, ask your questions. My wife will keep the questions at the back during the sermon. And then when we get to the end, we'll see what kind of time we got left and we'll troll through as many questions as we can. Psalm 16, David, as a Holy Spirit-inspired author of scripture is writing a prophecy that became fulfilled at Jesus' resurrection. The line, I will not be shaken, is specifically Psalm 16 verse eight. If you were to read all of Psalm 16, and I will later, you will see that Psalm 16's focus is having confidence in who we are and in our relationship with God. Now, rewind back to the middle of the Old Testament. David does not know Jesus' name. David does not know Malachi's prophecy about the Messiah having a forerunner. We know that because we are looking back through the pages of history. David doesn't know that. So when David is celebrating and worshiping in the confidence that he has in God, he is both describing his relationship with God at that time, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Why did David know what it meant to be a shepherd? He knew what it meant to care for those who couldn't care for themselves. But in Psalm 16, specifically, if you read the whole thing, David is speaking about his confidence, his surety, his faith in who God is and who he is in relationship. This is letter, so that was letter A in your notes. Letter B, David prophesied Jesus' resurrection. I want you to see this. Verse 26, therefore my heart is glad, my tongue rejoices, my body will also rest in hope. Now remember, Peter is quoting David and David is writing poetry, right? So if Peter is quoting David and David is writing poetry, then Peter is actually quoting poetry, right? A equals B, B equals C, A equals C. Everybody follow me? Barry, you got me, right? All right, so if we know that Peter is quoting Hebrew poetry, then we have to interpret his words here as poetry. So if you look at verse 26, there's clearly three things that he mentions. He first mentions his heart, he second mentions his tongue, and he third mentions his body. Now again, Peter's quoting David, but there's three things that come out of, this is actually Psalm 16, verse nine. Because of the security that David had in his relationship with God, there are three responses. My heart is glad, that's an emotional response. I don't know about you, but there are times that my relationship with God makes me feel rather emotional. You know, there are times in prayer that I can cry. There are times in prayer that I express fear, that I express confusion, that I express I'm super lost. Why does the voice of the Holy Spirit always sound like Melanie Yom's? I don't know. But we would be remiss if we weren't honest about the fact that faith in Jesus also has an emotional component. Now, I would argue it can't be only emotional, right? We gotta have some wisdom, we gotta have some knowledge. Those all balance each other out. But for those who come from more of a background like mine where John would think, think, think, think, think all the time, sometimes it's good to remember that you can outthink the experience of following the Spirit in your heart. Because they're like, oh, I'm just gonna overthink it. No, David is very clear. Therefore, and again, we'll read the whole Psalm and you'll see the therefore coming out. Therefore, my heart is glad, I have an emotional response when I reflect on the relationship I have with God. My tongue rejoices, my emotional response leads to my worshipful actions, right? I don't know if anybody's ever been there. Have you ever just thought about something that's going on, maybe you're listening to a worship song in traffic and somebody doesn't know how to use a turn signal correctly and instantly you have to pray for them? Or a better example, I'm a night person, I like the night sky. Has anybody ever walked outside at night when it's a beautifully clear night and you see the beautiful expanse of stars and you just take a really deep breath? Anybody ever done that? Okay, a couple of us. Have you ever taken it a step further and just stood there and been like, God, your handiwork is amazing? I don't know about you, but I do that a lot. I stand outside at night and I am captivated by not just the beauty of what I'm looking at. Yes, the night sky is beautiful, but to think about the fact that the night sky that I am currently looking at, that David would have also looked at every night he was outside with the sheep in the fields, laying there cowboy camping, looking up at everything. And I think to myself, not only is what I am looking at tremendously gorgeous, but it is the actual craftsmanship and handiwork of my God-King creator. That just captivates my heart. And I gotta stand there. Again, we went on vacation last week. We went to the mountains in Tennessee. And one morning I just stood there and I just stared out the window and it's the Smoky Mountains. So there's a mountain and there's clouds and there's 50 million watch out for bear signs. And I'm sitting here and I just stopped for a minute. I'm like, let me look at the beauty of God's creation. God could have made creation only functional, right? All food could be brown. Think about it. The color doesn't change the nutritional value. God could have made all foods brown. He could have made them all taste the same. All vegetables taste the same. All fruits taste the same. All meats taste the same. But he didn't. He created this wonderful variety that pineapple tastes like pineapple. That apples taste like apples. Steak tastes like steak. Jerky tastes like jerky, right? There's this beautifulness to God's creation that isn't functional in any way, but it makes it enjoyable for us. So we have an emotional response that leads to a worshipful response, which should lead, and here's the third one. He says, my body will rest in hope. My emotions drive my worship, which plants me firmly in my faith. Because of the beauty of the night sky, because that draws out of me my verbal praise for my creator, I remember that I am also his son, that my wife is his daughter, that my children are his children, and I can be sure in my faith because he gives me these beautiful vistas and symbols. That's illustratively what David is unpacking here in Psalm 16. So then let's keep going with what David's laying down. Verse 27. Because you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead, you will not let your Holy One see decay. This verse gets misread a lot, so I wanna focus on it. Verse 27 has two halves. The first half, and Dino, if you could leave it up here for just a second. Because you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead. That's David being quoted by Peter, but it's David, speaking to God directly about himself, because you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead. I will not be just lost for all of time into the void and the nothingness of death. But why does David know that he will not be lost to the void of nothingness and death? It's the second half of that statement. You will not let your Holy One see decay. Now, I'm gonna lay up two completely different ways to interpret this verse, so I can show you where I think the misunderstanding comes from. You're allowed to disagree with me here, but if you do so, you gotta do so on your Kinect card so we can talk about it. So, I submit to you that on verse 27, the first half of this verse is absolutely David speaking about himself. He says the word me. That's very obvious. You will not abandon me to the realm of the dead. You will not let your Holy One see decay. It's the second half of the verse that people get twisted. When David says your Holy One, what does the word holy mean, anybody? Set apart, right? You will not let the one you have set apart, that will be like an expanded definition of that word. Well, who is the one you have set apart? Well, you got two choices. David is either speaking about himself because he was set apart and selected to be a king of Israel, so we're not wrong in saying that David was selected. However, if the Holy One in verse 27 is David, then we have to agree, David's physical body never decayed at death. That's a problem because David died. And Peter's gonna say that as much. But 27 is where the hinge on this prophecy really is. That's why I wanted to point it out to you. Because you will not abandon me, David, to the realm of the dead, you will not let your Holy One see decay. David is rooting his faith and belief in his body. His future resurrection on the future resurrection of the Holy One who hasn't resurrected yet. See, people always ask me, how did salvation happen in the Old Testament? Here's the easy answer. Salvation has always been in faith. People in the Old Testament, they placed their faith in that which had not yet come. And people who live today, we place our faith in that which has come. We have the ability of history, evidence, apologetics, all those wonderful things that you guys know I love. But our faith is in an object of the past. David's faith was in an object of the future. So in 27, what he is saying is, if you'd allow me to rephrase David's words here, you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead because I know you will not abandon your Messiah to the realm of the dead. Because, or to say it more simply, for Jim, because Jesus resurrects, so will I. That's 27. Because you're going to resurrect your Messiah. And David didn't even know his name would be Jesus. He just knew that God had promised a Messiah. Because of the Messiah's resurrection, which I haven't seen yet, which I don't have any evidence for, but I know you will not let your Messiah, because of that, I know I can trust you. And what does he say? My body will rest in hope because you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead. And I would argue there's a because in there. You will not let your Holy One see decay. That's verse 16, verse 10. Then we get to 28. You have made known to me the paths of life. You fill me with joy in your presence. Now David is linking that hope, that trust, that because of the resurrection, that I can trust you, that I can be with you. You have made known to me the paths of life. This is hundreds of years before Jesus would ever talk about the wide gate and the narrow gate. Hundreds of years before that. David's writing down this Psalm about his confidence in God. You fill me with joy in your presence. Anybody listen to worship music in their car other than me? Like I'm a huge music fan. My family, we listen to worship music all the time. My wife is constantly scouring the interwebs for every brand new worship album from any unnamed church so we can try to find good, rich, quality, theologically sound worship for our church. So we listen to all kinds of worship in the car. And there are times man, that just fills you with joy. Especially when I can hear a song that's so good theologically, but also good musically, when the music is written well. Because I mean as a lifelong musician, I wanna hear good music, right? Like I wanna hear music. I want our musicians who are on part of our worship, I want them to enjoy their job, right? Not be like, ah. But like no, we should enjoy with our full body worshiping God. We are filled with joy in his presence because of who we are and because of who he is. So that's letter B, then we get to letter C. Peter now explains, he's gonna expound why what I just shared with you is David's prophecy. Look at 29. Fellow Israelites, stop. Who's the audience of Peter's sermon? Israelites. How do you know that? Because he just said it. But think about the setting. Where is Peter preaching this story? Jerusalem. When is Peter preaching this sermon? Pentecost. Who's in town for Pentecost in AD 30? Jews from everywhere. We already saw that in the beginning of the chapter, right? So his audience are faithful Jews who traveled to Jerusalem in AD 30 at the holiday of Pentecost. These people are people who love God. They love to be faithful to his word. And he says, fellow Israelites, I can tell you confidently I love that word. You know why I love that word? Because Peter is not just speaking about how he feels about God. He's using poetry that's beautiful in its emotional language. But Peter's saying, no, no, no, no, no. I can tell you with confidence. I can tell you because I be know that. That's the new international Bill version. Jen, I be know. Right, I be know that what? Fellow Israelites, Bill translation. I be know that the patriarch David died and was buried and his tomb is here to this day. So Peter is laying up the fact that there's no way that David could be speaking about himself as the Holy One who will not see decay. Why? Because his body's been over there for hundreds of years. That's 2930. But he was a prophet. What does that mean? What he wrote was prophetically about future events. But he was a prophet. And he knew that God had promised him on oath that he would place one of his descendants on the throne. That's called the, anybody know? Davidic covenant, that's right. The Davidic covenant. God promised King David during his earthly life that one of his descendants would be a forever king who would inherit his throne. The only way you can rule forever is if you can live forever. Anybody got the Sandlot reference? That was for you. Yeah, killing me smalls, there you go. You didn't know you were gonna get movie quotes with your sermon today, good job. But he was a prophet that knew God had promised him on oath that he would place one of his descendants on his throne. David had already been told by God, one of your descendants will inherit your throne and will rule forever. The only way you can rule forever is if you can live forever. 31, seeing what was to come, meaning now, seeing the fact that there would be a Holy One who will live forever and inherit the throne as God had already told David. Seeing what was to come, he spoke of the resurrection of the Messiah that was not abandoned to the realm of the dead, nor did his body see decay. See the connection? Because David is a human who mortally died and he was there, but David was given a prophecy that one of his descendants would be able to live forever, to rule forever. David either understood it or David was revealed it by God. I can't tell you which one, until we get to heaven and we ask David himself. But David in Psalm 16 is saying, seeing what was to come, David spoke of the resurrection of the Messiah that was not abandoned to the realm of the dead, nor did his body see decay. 32, God raised this Jesus to life and we are all witnesses of it. Fellow Israelites, David laid it down hundreds of years ago that God would resurrect his promised Messiah to fulfill the promise to inherit the throne of King David to have it forever and bro, we saw it. Again, I have to stress, Christianity is not a religion of faith alone. It is the religion of faith that stands on evidence, that stands on proof. I am not asking you to shoot a shot in the dark and hope you're right. I'm asking you to trust that I can show you why we're right. We have more historical evidence for the resurrection of Jesus or for the life of Jesus than Genghis Khan, Julius Caesar, Alexander the Great. We are not a religion of just faith. We are a religion that works on faith, but faith rooted in real solid reasons. He says, we are all witnesses of this. 33, exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear. And now Peter's linking back to what Pastor Tyler dealt with last week. The arrival of the Holy Spirit was visual, was auditory and was active. This is not some random hallucination. This is not some baby babble. And on second floor, this was a confirmation of God's working in his people. Because of the resurrection of Jesus, he has received from the father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear. Verse 34, for David did not ascend to heaven, and yet he said, my Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand. So again, David can't, the Holy One can't be David himself because David did not ascend to heaven and sit at the right hand next to God. Who did that? Jesus. 35, or no, excuse me, 34. The Lord said, sit at my right hand, 35, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet, 36. Here's the roundout. Therefore, Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Messiah. In Pastor Tyler's sermon last week, he showed you the Joel passage and how the arrival of the Holy Spirit and the speaking in tongues of both men and women, gotta have it. You can't fulfill Joel chapter two if only dudes spoke in tongues. And he said, I'm gonna have to speak in tongues Joel chapter two, if only dudes spoke in tongues, has to be men and women. That's what Pastor Tyler showed, explaining the Holy Spirit, speaking in tongues on the second floor. Now, Peter's on the street. He's on the block. He's trying to explain it to everybody what's happening. And his conclusion is one of the best single statements about Jesus. Let all Israel be assured. He doesn't say, hey, let all Israel hope. Let all Israel feel it. He says, no, let all Israel be assured of this. If there was one thing that was true, all Israel, believe this, God has made this Jesus who you crucified, both Lord and Messiah. That is the conclusion of Peter's David argument. He said, David prophesied the resurrection of Jesus because the Holy one in David's Psalm could not be speaking of David himself because David had already been told about the forever king that would come from his line. David in Psalm 16 is prophetically speaking of the future resurrection of Jesus. People ask all the time, if God wanted us to only believe in Jesus, why doesn't he just come down and tell us himself? And I'm like, that's what he did. And nobody, right? If you'll say, if God wanted me to believe that he's the only way to heaven, why doesn't he just come down and tell us? And I'm like, have you not read the book? That's what he did. He literally came down after being prophesied for hundreds of years. He showed up, he said, I'm God. He said, this is exactly how to have new life. And we killed him for it. So then he had to rise from the grave. The only person in all of human history whose resurrection is discernible on the pages of history because why? Because to conclude Peter's message here, be assured of this. God made this Jesus whom you crucified both Lord and Messiah. I just wanna read you Psalm 16, but I want to read it to you and I want you to think about one thing. David is talking about Jesus, right? This is David, King David prophesying under the unction of the Holy Spirit because he's writing Holy scripture. David is describing his relationship with Jesus. I just want you to reflect and ask yourself, does this sound like your relationship with Jesus? Ready? Here it is. And no, you don't have it on the screen because I'm pulling this one on the slide. Here you go. Psalm 16 and I'll just read the whole song because it's not that long. Keep me safe my God, for in you I take refuge. I say to the Lord, you are my Lord and apart from you I have no good thing. I say to the holy people who are in the land, they are the noble ones in whom is all my delight. Those who run after other gods will suffer more and more. I will not pour out libations of blood to such gods. Lord, you alone are my portion, my cup. You make my lot secure. The boundary lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Surely I have a delightful inheritance. I will praise the Lord who counsels me even at night when my heart instructs me. I will keep my eyes always on the Lord. With him at my right hand, I'm not gonna be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices. My body will also rest secure because you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead nor will you let your faithful one see decay. You make known to me the path of life. You fill me with joy in your presence with eternal pleasures at your right hand. This is David beautifully and illustratively illustrating what the life of faithful obedience to Jesus sounds like in poetry. I don't know about you, but I don't feel like I always do my relationship with Jesus just as light-ad. Sometimes I feel like I wake up and I'm like the black sheep of the flock. And I'm like, okay, Lord, I will do better today. Maybe if I could just do better than Jim, right? And then there are other days that I get up and I'm totally in that feels place. And I'm like, man, I feel good about being a Jesus follower today. I like that hundreds of years before Jesus was ever born, David wrote down for me exactly how I feel about Jesus. That's how you can know that this Jesus whom they crucified is both Lord and, whoop, sorry, Tyler, I'll pick that up for you. He hasn't gave me Tyler's Bible, so let me not bend it. Peter concludes his Pentecost sermon. When everyone was hearing the speaking in tongues and all those different people groups heard their native languages, Peter ended it with the resurrection. David prophesied hundreds of years ago that Jesus would rise. So let me give you your takeaway, and then Melanie, you could start firing off questions to me. Here's the takeaway to bring the sermon in for a landing before we switch over to Q&A. A thousand years before Jesus, King David prophesied that God's Messiah would rise from the dead. And in Jesus, that prophecy is fulfilled. Think about that. A thousand years before Jesus was ever born, King David prophesied that God's holy anointed one, their body would never see decay in the grave, but he would rise to prove that he is the promised Messiah. And this is all happening at the same moment that the Holy Spirit is falling, and everybody in the upper room, they're all speaking in all these other languages, and Peter comes downstairs and he says, guys, do you get it? Joel told you the Holy Spirit in the last days. Joel told you that men and women would prophesy. David told you that God's promised Messiah would rise from the grave. We are witnesses that he rose. What more do you need? That's Peter's Pentecost sermon.