But so today we're going to continue here in person with Pastor Bill's series through the book of Acts. So I'm not going to do a separate series but we're going to pick up where Pastor Bill left off. And don't worry like we mentioned earlier, I'm not going to do the Bible story. We'll skip that today and let him pick it back up next week. But as we jump back into Acts, I do want to at least jump back to the beginning of Acts, where we were at. So here in Acts 2 we're following one of both the greatest and the worst days of the church. So the greatest day, they just experienced this moment like you guys talked about last week of Pentecost and this indwelling of the Holy Spirit, something like they had not seen before. But it's also following roughly two months earlier of one of the worst days where Jesus died on the cross. And so I can imagine the emotions going through the church at this moment, the uncertainty of what the church will be, of what will happen to them, even the uncertainty of how long the end of days will be for them. Are they in the end times? Many of them probably believed that they would live to see Jesus return again and that we wouldn't have the two thousand plus years we currently have right now following it. And yet in these moments we see Christ's followers beginning to step up, to boldly start proclaiming his name to the nations. We see Peter stand up. Peter probably had so many thoughts going through his mind as we're here in Acts 2. Peter had also, one of the disciples, experienced one of probably the best and worst moments of his life. And not just because he lost a close friend, family, somebody who he loved, but because of the failures he had had in the past few months as well. Through this pain he had watched Jesus be beaten and stabbed, hung on a cross. He had just gone through the Last Supper. He'd seen Jesus predict it all before it happened. He'd had Jesus ask him if he loved him and if he would betray him, where he said he wouldn't, and then we know the story where he did. And yet here we find Peter clearly different and changed, living for God. I'm not sure what we would have done in Peter's shoes here. I'm also not entirely sure what Jesus said to Peter following the 40 days he had with him when he returned. But whatever in those 40 days or through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, we see a difference in Peter. Peter had always been bold. He'd always been a little hot, a little easy, hot-tempered. And we still see that to Peter in a point, but we see a different character still. We see a different boldness going forward. And so we pick up the story here in Acts 2, 14-24, where Peter stands up, he raises his voice, and he addresses the crowd with a sermon. This is going to be Peter's first sermon that's at least recorded and definitely the first sermon following the Pentecost moment. We see a man who's gone through a roller coaster of emotions and yet boldly stands up and preaches for God. So let's jump into Acts 2, 14-24, and continue where we're at in the Bible story in Acts. So we read. I don't think it's going to be on the screen today, but if you guys have your Bibles along, we're in Acts 2, 14-24. So Peter says, then Peter stood up with the eleven, raised his voice, and addressed the crowd. Fellow Jews and all of you who live in Jerusalem, let me explain this to you. Listen carefully to what I say. These people are not drunk, as you suppose. It's only nine in the morning. No, this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. In the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions. Your old men will dream dreams. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in these days, and they will prophesy. I will show you wonders in heaven above and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and billows of smoke. The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord. And everyone who calls in the name of the Lord will be saved. Fellow Israelites, listen to this. That Jesus was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God did among you through him, as you yourselves know. This man was handed over to you by God's deliberate plan and foreknowledge, and you, with the help of wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to the cross. But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. And that's where we're going to stop. Pastor Bill will continue the rest of Peter's sermon next week. But as we read those first few verses of Peter's sermon, we see this knowledge and passion from Peter that we hadn't seen before. So Peter begins his sermon here explaining what just happened. So the crowd last week, we talked about the indwelling of the Holy Spirit and this idea of them questioning if they were drunk with wine. And yes, this is Peter's sermon, but Peter begins to address the situation. But what's important here also is Peter is not doing it alone. Yes, Peter is the one speaking, but in the first verse, we see that Peter stood up with the eleven. Peter may be the spokesperson, he may be the one that the spirit is currently speaking through, but he is not doing it alone. Just like Pastor Bill preached a couple weeks ago, choosing Matthias to replace Judas, he's also one of these eleven who is now supporting Peter here. That Matthias has just completely joined in with the rest of the disciples. This is showing a combined front in the unison among the team. The importance of this group is the emphasis of shared doctrine. This was not just one man's opinion. This wasn't what Peter felt was important or what Peter wanted to say. But what they were saying is we are all a part of this. We're backing Peter, that this is the church going forward. This is Christ's followers and disciples. The reason this is important is because one of the biggest objections to Jesus, even today, is that he was just a really good deceiver or kind of a con man type person who deceived people to follow him. It was this idea that Jesus made up this lie or this story and people followed and listened to him and bought into it based off what they could get out of it or what Jesus was getting out of it. This is a view that even people share today. So one of the things that Peter is doing here and the other disciples and apostles is they're saying, hey, this isn't just my word. This is our word as a team, as a combined front. We believe that this is important and we believe that this is what God is telling us to do going forward. This is the same thing that happens here at church. You guys see Pastor Bill get up here and preach, right? But just because Pastor Bill's up here preaching doesn't mean he's doing this alone. That doesn't mean Elder Jim and Bill aren't helping him, that they're not backing his words even when he maybe goes down some rabbit trails they don't like or starts making fun of Jim. But what they are saying is, hey, we are here as a unified elders and that we support the message that Pastor Bill is preaching. We have different roles and functions, but they're one team. And so you guys see Pastor Bill get up here and preach, but you guys maybe miss the moments that you don't see is that even though Pastor Bill is up here preaching, if he has something that he feels God needs to say, he's still going to say it. If it's truly God's word, but you miss that he calls Jim and asks Jim's advice on it and what Jim thinks if it's too harsh or if it's something they need to hear and he calls Bill and he'll sometimes call me or Donna, he checks it with his wife. That yet Pastor Bill is the one up here sharing, but that doesn't mean he's not checking with other people. He's not checking with Doug and other mentors in his life. He's saying like, this is God's word from us as a church. So this is what the early church is doing here. They're laying a network of people that are going to go forward and reach the magnitudes of people, the Gentiles that God has called them to reach. The delight that Israel was supposed to be to the Gentile nations is going to happen through these disciples. They're going to branch out and reach the world as God had intended. So Peter stood up with both the disciples, literally, but he also was figuratively standing up for God. So here in this situation, the crowd is coming after the early church. They're questioning the early church on what they're doing and if they're drunk and what's happening. They're basically calling this moment of God something that is either a party or some type of situation. But Peter refused their claims. Sometimes as Christians today, I think we try to balance the line of standing up for God, but not being offensive. And this is what Peter is showing us here also. We know that God calls us to stand up for him, but I think sometimes maybe as Christians today, we fall into the line of, well, I don't want to say something that could offend somebody and push them away. Maybe, you know, if they feel this way or they want to say something bad about Christians, it's okay. We know the truth, isn't that? That maybe sometimes we just let it sweep under the rug and say, it's okay. But Peter here is different than he was 60 days earlier. And Peter's saying, hey, you can make that clean and I'm going to address it in a loving way, but I'm going to stand up for God. I'm not going to let you come after God's people in a way, calling them, telling me that they're doing something that's not of God, but it's a complete God thing. We see this difference. So how does Peter refute this mocking and laughing? He still does it in a loving way. But his first claim is they can't be drunk, it's only 9 a.m., which is probably not the best argument if we look at it today, like, what's that matter, it's 9 a.m. Could still be. But we're missing the culture of the moment. So what Peter is saying in the it's only 9 a.m. moment is we're missing that and the religious Jews, but those who didn't live religiously, but just culturally in the time, still would have practiced this idea of fasting before roughly 9 a.m. when they would have their first worship and prayers in the morning. So Peter isn't saying like, it's impossible. He's saying it's impossible because they haven't even eaten or drinking. And he's saying, I backed this up because I've been with them. It's not even 9 a.m. We're still worshiping and praising God. We haven't broken our morning fast yet. There's no chance that these people are drunk. It has to be the filling of the Holy Spirit. And maybe we argue that this isn't a great argument, like, okay, Peter's making this claim, but maybe they don't believe him. Like, okay, how do you know they weren't drinking on the side? The other important thing for their time is that wine or alcohol would have been something that was drank as something to make water safer, easier to drink. So in their day, they didn't have the treatments and bottle of water so you can just go pick up at the store that was safe to drink no matter what country you went to. But their water would have been more dangerous to drink. It could have been easily have bacterias in it or different things that could have hurt them from both sitting or being in a well or just being contaminated in general. And so they would often take the water and dilute it with wine. So they would water it down to wine. It would be super watered down compared to what we drink today. But the purpose of this was to disinfect the water. And so wine became like a daily drink to them. And so yes, could they have drank enough to still get drunk off it? Yeah. But most likely not by 9 a.m. if they slept throughout the night. And so what Peter's saying that both culturally, since they haven't even eaten or drank, but just in the fact of it's only 9 a.m., it would have been super hard for somebody to be drunk at that moment. So Peter is standing up for these people and saying, I put my word behind this. These people aren't drunk. You're missing it. You've missed what God has said is going to happen and what he's done already. And so after refuting why it wasn't possible, he begins to explain what's really happening by backing up with the Holy by talking about the Old Testament. So even in the midst of the Spirit-filled time where the Holy Spirit was working and moving, he was speaking through the gifts of tongues just moments earlier, Peter still brought it back to scriptures in the Word of God. Peter was showing both an emphasis on the feelings in the Spirit and the Word of God. He wasn't showing one as more important or one as more valuable, but he was showing how both came together. Peter pulls out the Book of Joel. We don't know exactly how Peter knew this Book of Joel because a fisherman in their days probably wouldn't have known the Book of Joel. Maybe he did hear it growing up in a synagogue or in a temple by somebody preaching, but most likely would have heard more of the more popular passages from like the Torah and different areas. But maybe he did hear it there. Possibly he heard it from Jesus. Maybe Jesus pulled this passage out at some point and taught it to him, or he just heard it through the dwelling of the Holy Spirit. But whatever the way is, Peter pulls out this passage of a small prophet, of a small scroll that would have been in the synagogues, and he uses this to defend what's happening in current day Israel. So the Book of Joel was written most likely around 800 BC. Maybe a little bit later. The time's a little bit hard to justify. It's one of the harder books for them to pick a time on. But regardless, it was somewhere between 500 and 900 years earlier than this moment in church history. And so this Book of Joel was mostly written about warning Israel of coming judgment. But in the Book of Joel, there's a small section that we just read through in the passage we read where God promises through Joel the filling of his Holy Spirit. And this is the moment that's happening in the early church that we're reading about in Acts 2, 1 through 24. And so Peter makes it clear that the scriptures do not conflict the spirit and the spirit does not conflict the scriptures. One was not more important than the other. And this is where I think sometimes we get it wrong today. Sometimes I think we see denominations or groups of churches who go so far on the spirit side that we say it's more about how I feel and how God's leading me and the feeling is more important. And then we have other groups who go so far on the scripture side where it's what a word of God says this so that can't be possible and I don't see that backing up. And we try to explain away the supernatural. And we forget that God relied on both. Both when Jesus was on earth and in the church going forward. I think in my life growing up, I grew up in a Baptist church close to here. And we were very focused on the scripture and we kind of stayed away from the spirit side. And yeah, we agreed that the Holy Spirit was real and the Holy Ghost was a thing, but don't explain it or don't really talk about it much. We'll talk about scriptures and how that's important. But the Holy Spirit, like, yeah, it's real. Yeah, he helps us. But I don't want to be asked questions about it because I don't really want to get into those details. It's kind of the environment I grew up in. And then the other side where the Holy Spirit means more or matters more. Peter's very clearly showing here that both of these views are wrong. He's saying yes, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit is important, but scripture should back up what is being shared through both prophecy and speaking in tongues and the different things occurring. That if the Spirit of God and what we know of Jesus doesn't back up those things, they're not of God. One of the things that is important to note here is who this group of people are also. This group of people, roughly 120 people as Pastor Bill was talking about, maybe a little bit more at this moment, are a group of random people in their society. So we have Matthew, a tax collector. We have some fishermen. We have women, some women who were adulterers, sinners, just ordinary people that you probably saw walking down the street. Why is that important? Because of the difference of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Think about the moment of church history, of the Jewish history to this point. The Holy Spirit only do what indwell certain people. It would have been indwell priests and prophets maybe. It would have indwell kings, people of important status for a specific purpose and for a limited reason. Here Peter is now making a claim that the Holy Spirit, something super important to Jewish history, was indwelling this random group of people who followed this crazy man in the desert. And this is the claim that Peter is making. Peter is showing that the Holy Spirit was not something reserved just for specific people anymore, for specific purposes. That it was something that God always intended for his church and his people. And how does he explain it to the Jewish people here in the crowd? By going back to their scrolls, to their temple. And that's why it's so important that Peter used the book of Joel. Because the crowd here, right, they wouldn't agree with Jesus. They thought Jesus was a crazy man. They killed him. They probably are thinking Peter's just as crazy as Jesus at this point. But they're not going to argue with Joel. And so Peter takes them back to a book that they agree on is the word of God and says, look what the word of God says on this moment. And that's why this is so important to what Peter is doing. This comes back to the idea that Jesus was using women and sinners, people that would not have been used in their culture or their history, to move his church forward just like he can use each and every one of us. So Peter pulls out Joel, and I'm going to read the section again, verse 17 and 18 in the book of Joel, but through the book of Acts. And it says, in the last day, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions. Your old men will dream dreams. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days and they will prophesy. Joel made it clear that in the last days, God would pour his spirit out on all people, on everybody. Not just the religious elite, not just his chosen people, not just a specific king for a time and take it away and then give it to David for a different purpose and a different season, but all people for all time. This is why I think we need the Bible to be checking everything of the spirit back to the Bible. I also think this is why we need to give the Bible characters a little more slack. Like as I was reading this, I'm thinking, you know, I like to read the Bible and I think about how stupid the decisions they make are, like, Peter, how'd you deny Jesus? Or Adam and Eve, how'd you do what you did? And we forget that we get to look back through the lens of the cross, but also with the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. As we read these stories of these Bible characters, apart from the few that we knew had the spirit indwelling them, they didn't have the spirit living with them every day. They maybe had the example of Jesus walking next to them, but Jesus could have walked away from them and Peter was just left there not indwelled with the Holy Spirit at that moment. And so this is why this is important. But we also remember two things as we keep going forward. The ending of this section in Joel comes back to the idea of the end of the days. That in these coming end of days, there will be great signs from heaven and signs on earth before the coming and great and glorious day of the Lord. That's what Joel says. And it ends with a reminder that all who call on the day of the Lord will be saved. God was giving us a reminder through Joel and now through Peter that the coming of the day of the Lord would both be a scary but a good time for the church, for Christians. It was a time to be scared of, yes, God was coming back to judge and there would be issues and there would be signs and wonders and bad times and tribulations, but it was also a day of rejoicing and salvation for all who believed. We will get to it in a second in verses 22 through 24 where Peter kind of sums up what just happened in his life with the death of Jesus. But why is this passage so important from Joel? Peter is clearly showing that Joel laid out what would happen in the last days. That the beginning of the church age or the indwelling of the Holy Spirit would start with what would become known as the last days. They didn't know, like I said, that it would be 2,000 plus years counting now. But what they did know is that these were the moments that the prophets were prophesying of. The indwelling of the Holy Spirit that Joel spoke about, the coming of the church age that many of the prophets alluded to, they were now living in. They didn't have Jesus here leading the charge anymore. But this group of people who stood up together at the beginning of this passage were now taking the torch and living on what Jesus had given them to do. And we are in that same boat today. We are taking the torch from those who have come before us all the way back up to disciples and Jesus. That we have the charge to continue living out that mission and charge to the world. And so Peter now clearly uses this as a prime example to move into what the need of a savior is. And so in verses 22 through 24 he said, fellow Israelites, listen to this. Jesus was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs which God did among you through him as you yourselves know. This man was handed over to you by God's deliberate plan and foreknowledge, and you with the help of wicked men put him to death by nailing him to a cross. But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. In Peter's very first sermon following Pentecost, he clearly lays out what the gospel is for, what the plan and goal of the gospel and what God did is. He's like so ready to see how the Old Testament and specifically this passage or Joel goes with Jesus and he bridges the gap. He says, yeah, Joel talked about this. He talked about in need of a savior and you guys just saw that savior. This is what Jesus just did for you less than 60 days earlier. This is why Jesus did what he did. And so he's like, hey, you guys remember that man you killed but couldn't keep dead? Yeah, that man you killed, God sent him. But the grave couldn't hold him. That need to be saved by calling on the name of the Lord as Joel was talking about. That's this man right here. And so he's like you saw him perform miracles and signs. He did these things to prove his deity and authority. It's like the story of Jesus with the crippled man, right? So the crippled man comes to Jesus and the first thing he says is your sins are forgiven. And the religious leaders think in their head and he knows what they're thinking and they're like, hold up, you don't have that power. And then he calls them out on their thoughts and he's like, what do you mean I don't have that power? Okay, cool. You think I don't have that power but can you disprove if I make a man walk? And so he makes the man walk. So the need that Jesus knew was the man needed to be saved of his sins and he used his ability to make the man walk to show that he had the power to forgive sins. That's what Peter's saying here. He's saying you guys saw him perform signs and miracles and wonders. He did these things to prove his authority and his deity to you. And yet maybe some of the people standing with him got it. But he's saying a lot of you guys missed it. You guys put him on that cross because you didn't believe him and yet he did exactly what he said he would do and he rose again. And this is why I love Peter's sermon here. In Peter's first sermon he lays out basically the structure of how preachers preach going forward for the last 2,000 years. He acknowledges a need. So the need was that people were questioning the church's drunkenness or spirit by being spirit-filled. That was the need. So he went to scriptures. He found an Old Testament that would relate to them and that they would agree on. Went to Joel and found a way to explain it. And then he still pointed it back to Jesus. And that's something I think also we miss today. So many times we go to church to hear a feel-good story. To hear what we're doing right or what we should be doing maybe even at times. But we forget that the point of Christian preaching and learning is to point us back to Jesus. The point of the Old Testament was to point forward to Jesus. And so here at church today we should be looking at why Jesus matters and why it's important to us. That everything we do in our lives just we talked about in communion today is because of that moment. And so Peter takes this first sermon as a way to say hey here's an Old Testament passage that pointed to our need for a savior and what Jesus did. I think sometimes we get into the habit of reading the Bible as random little stories that don't relate to each other. But Peter is also filling this gap of how the Old Testament completely relates with the New Testament. The other reason this passage is super important is it's a redeeming moment for Peter. Kind of titled the sermon from refusal to redemption. And so it's this idea that Peter had just gotten over 60 days earlier denying Jesus. Peter is only 60 days removed from probably the worst day of his life. Somebody who he considered probably one of his if not his closest friend had just died on the cross. The person who he said he would defend no matter what cut a man's ear off for and he just denied him three times like Jesus said he would. But here Peter's come to terms with it. In verse 23 he states this man was handed over to you by God's deliberate plan and foreknowledge and you with the help of wicked men put him to death by nailing him on the cross. Peter is redeemed here and reminded that yes the people in the crowd had put Jesus on that cross but Peter's reminded he did just as much as well. We did just as much as Peter did. He was one of the men who probably assisted with nailing God to the cross Jesus to the cross by his denial of him. But he also realized his understanding that this was God's plan from the beginning. Jesus had the foreknowledge of what would happen to him. Jesus knew what would happen when he came down to earth. He knew what would happen when he chose Peter to be a disciple. He knew what would happen when he asked Peter to walk out on the sea with him. He knew what would happen when he asked Peter if he loved him. He also knew what would happen when he asked Peter if he'd deny him. He knew Peter would but yet he still chose Peter over and over again and Peter's understanding at this moment that Jesus had the knowledge that he would betray him and yet still chose him and confided in him and trusted him. But most importantly he knew that Jesus forgave him and redeemed him and restored him and this is Peter living this moment This is Peter going from the broken disciple he was two months earlier to the restored and redeemed disciple that God was calling on to help build this church going forward. And so as we bring the sermon in for an ending, what does this sermon mean to us? That just like Peter we can be redeemed and restored. So Jesus offers his spirit and restoration to all people. He offered to the people who nailed him to the cross. He offered it to the thieves next to him on the cross. He offered it to Peter who had denied him three times but he also offered it to us. Do we live in a way that is acknowledging that Jesus poured out his blood and broke his body for us so that we can be redeemed and restored? That his spirit has been poured out for us to be used for the purposes of his church going forward? This is a reminder that you're not too far from God's restoration. Peter probably beat himself up following Jesus' death on the cross and whatever that moment was like when Peter when Jesus first appeared to Peter and whatever Jesus said to him in those 40 days clearly changed Peter to the man he is at this moment in the church history. You can have that same restoration and redeeming. Second, the Holy Spirit offers you guidance. Don't take advantage of it. We're indwelled with the Holy Spirit but it doesn't mean it's something for us to take advantage of. We live in a moment where we get the both the privilege of looking back at the whole Bible through the lens of the cross but also with the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. We ridicule the people in the Bible for making mistakes, for not doing the right thing often, and we forget that they didn't have that advantage we have today. Take it and run with it. Use it for boldness in your workplace, in your jobs, with your friends and family. And finally, what is your purpose in life? What is the reason you live each and every day? Is your focus on Jesus? Even in a sermon about something different, Peter took an Old Testament passage and related it back to Jesus. Just like we talked about in communion, our focus in life should be by focusing on the blood of Christ. That everything we do as Christians should be because of the sacrifice Christ made for us. The restoration he's made in our lives should affect us to go and tell other people as a united front of believers.