Welcome to catalyst. My name is Bill. Forgive my throat. It's already running scared for the weather that's coming. I apologize. Now it is my privilege to be the pastor and primary teacher here at catalyst. Good morning and thank you for all of you who join us online or a part of our live stream. Those of you who are just watching and those of you who are available in our live chat this morning, thank you for being a part of the extended catalyst family. Now as you saw in our intro video, we're going to be continuing our series in the book of Acts. This morning we're going to take a look at Acts chapter 1 verses 15 to 26. So last week we opened the book of Acts with the first 14 verses. So while you're turning to Acts chapter 1 verse 15, let me give you the key thought that holds this whole series. We're going to basically be doing Acts chapter 1 and Acts chapter 2 as a verse by verse walkthrough. Here's the key thought. The book of Acts records how Jesus' mission continues through his spirit empowered disciples. The book of Acts records how Jesus' mission continues through his spirit empowered disciples. Now let's get ourselves in the right mindset, in the right frame to remember where we are in the book of Acts. So let's start back at the beginning of the Bible and walk our way to the story of Acts and then we're going to jump right in at verse 15. So in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth and into the earth he planted a garden at a place called Eden. Into Eden he made two human beings, Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve willfully disobey the will of God creating sin in the world. They leave the Garden of Eden, sin begins to run rampant. By Genesis chapter 9, God regrets that he has made human He decides to send a flood. He chooses a man and he tells this man, I want you to build an ark and through this ark I will save humanity and all air-breathing creatures. The name of that man is Noah. How many sons of Noah were on the ark? Three. How many total humans were on the ark? Eight. Very good. After the ark comes to rest, the air-breathing animal life and humanity come off the ark. Humanity gets a restart. Fast forward to Genesis chapter 12. God chooses a man from Mesopotamia living in a place called Ur. Just you are. Ur, that's where he lived. And he says, listen, I'm going to be your God. You will be my people. I will bless those who bless you. I will curse those who curse you. From you will come a mighty nation that will bless the whole world. And God changes that man's name to Abraham. Abraham then has two sons. The younger of the two sons also receive the same covenant promise. I will be your God. You will be my people. You will live in the land that I will give you. A mighty nation will come from your descendants that will bless the whole world. The name of the second covenant inheritor or the younger son of Abraham? Isaac. Isaac then has two sons and again God repeats the covenant promise to the younger of the two. I will be your God and you will be my people. I will bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you. You will live long in the land that I will give you and through your descendants I will bless the whole world. The third patriarch or the second son is Jacob. Jacob then has multiple sons with multiple wives. That's a sermon for another day. His sons ultimately become what known as the 12 tribes of Israel. The second youngest of Jacob's sons is sold into slavery and is sent by his brothers into the land of Egypt for a time probably not less than 13 years and probably not more than 17 to 20 years. He serves as a slave. God works through his character, his integrity and ultimately maneuvers him into the palace when God gives a dream to Pharaoh and that young man becomes second in charge of the land of Egypt. That young man's name is Joseph and that's just the book of Genesis. Then through Joseph and God the children of Israel or the children of Jacob and his family, his sons, his grandsons, his daughters, his granddaughters, they all move into Egypt. The Egyptians don't like shepherds and so they put them like in the Egyptian back 40 to kind of keep them away from everybody else. For bonus double star points, the name of the land in Egypt where Pharaoh allowed Jacob and his descendants to live, Goshen. That's right. They move into the land of Goshen for 400 years. They live there. They're fine and then comes, excuse me, then comes a Pharaoh who forgot who Joseph was, who forgot what God did for Egypt and they enslaved the Hebrew people and they cry out for a deliverer and in the midst of this slavery and this domineering power, God sends the children of Israel a deliverer, a man who is born a slave, raised in the palace, then has a little bit of a sketchy time killing a guy and running out of town and moves to the land of Midian to become a shepherd for another 40 years. Ultimately marries his wife and then comes back and with his brother stands in front of Pharaoh and says, let my people go. That deliverer of Israel's name is Moses. Moses's older brother's name is Aaron and their older sister's name is Miriam. Together Moses and Aaron present God's demands to Pharaoh, let my people go so that they may worship me or that they may serve me. Spoiler alert, Pharaoh doesn't do it right away. If you haven't read that story, it's really cool. You need to read it. Ultimately this leads to the 10 plagues of Egypt. God displaying his power over the Egyptian pantheon leading to his power over Ra, the sun god, and then Pharaoh finally lets God's people go. They run out of Egypt and they run into a geographic barrier. They're running to the land and it stops at this body of water and Pharaoh's army is now chasing them from behind. They are standing at a body of water in front and Moses takes the staff that God had given him and he plunges it into the water and the water parts and God's people walk on dry ground across what's the name of the body of water, the Red Sea. And then as soon as all of God's people have crossed, Pharaoh orders his army to go in after them and it comes crashing down. Interestingly enough they have found chariot wheels at the bottom of the Red Sea. You can look that up at one point. The archaeological pictures are amazing. But children of Israel then move to the mountain at the foot of a mountain and Moses goes up to the top of the mountain to receive what you and I now know is the law of God. He gives the law to his people. They went into Egypt as a family. They come out of Egypt as a nation and a nation has to have a system of laws and governance. So Moses is the top of a mountain receiving the law of God and Aaron is down at the foot of the mountain leading them in idolatry. The name of the mountain is Sinai which is why we call it the Sinatic Covenant. So because of this disobedience, I don't know if you've noticed the theme yet, right? Because of this disobedience, God's people now have to wander in the wilderness for 40 years. That 40 years allows the oldest generation, those who are leading in the idolatry to die off. At the end of that period, God says okay now it's time and he raises up a young man to take Moses' place and this young man will now lead the children of Israel into Canaan, the promised land. The name of the young man who replaces Moses as the leader of Israel is Joshua. Joshua leads the children of Israel to the promised land. They rededicate themselves. They recircumcise themselves because everybody who was born during the 40 years wilderness born or raised did not have the sign of the covenant. They move in and I would love to tell you that everything went great but those of you who've done this story before know that's not the case. They still have a disobedience problem. They do not move out all of the other people in the land. They begin to intermarry. They begin to worship other gods and that leads us to the time of the judges where everybody did what was right in their own eyes. Everyone did what was right in their own eyes. What they thought was good was good. This leads to the ultimate rejection of God's authority when the children of Israel asked God to give them something they were never supposed to have but they want to have something like all the other kids have. What did they ask God for? A king, a human king. God was supposed to be their king but he asked for a human king and he says fine I'm gonna give you what you asked for. What you need to understand you're gonna have to pay taxes and he's gonna take your sons into his army and your daughters into his harem. The first king of the United Monarchy of Israel is? Saul. Second one? David. Third one? Solomon. After Solomon? Civil War. That's right. This is like you know middle to the second third of the Old Testament. Civil War happens and God's people are now broken into two nations. The northern kingdom is Israel and the southern kingdom is Judah. How many tribes up here in the northern kingdom? Ten. How many tribes in the lower kingdom? Two. And this is that way for the whole middle half of the Old Testament. God's people are now separated. They war with each other. They war with other folks. God sends them both prophets. God tries to draw them back. Ultimately they're still disobedient. The northern kingdom is a little more disobedient than the southern kingdom and so after enough time has passed God says okay it is time to put you in a timeout. You need to be disciplined. One of the terms of you living in this land that I promised you was that you would live in obedience to me and you're not doing that. So now you need a timeout and God uses an external pagan nation in 722 BC I think comes in and invades the northern kingdom of Israel conquers them and carries them off into captivity. What is the name of the pagan nation that defeated the northern kingdom Israel in 722 BC? Assyria. Then while they're in Assyria, Assyria itself falls to another up-and-coming pagan nation. What is the up-and-coming nation that defeated Assyria? Babylon. Then Babylon comes in and sacks the southern kingdom of Judah. My brain is saying 586 BC. Those of you who are online with Dr. Doug in the chat I'm sure he'll correct me if I get the dates wrong and then I'll post about it later. So Babylon comes in and invades the southern kingdom of Judah, carries them off into captivity and now all of God's people are taken away from the land that he has promised them. The land now gets the break from God's people being in disobedience. That's the story of Jeremiah, his friends Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego that takes place during this time. And then Jeremiah is a prophet who's in Jerusalem during this time and he writes a letter to his fellow captives who've been taken to Babylon and says, dudes, the New International Bill translation, bros and brouettes, right? Settle in. You're gonna be here for 70 years. Marry. Plant gardens. Do good for the city, which meant you're gonna be in Babylon for 70 years. Do good for Babylon while you're there, but when it's done your deliverer is gonna come for you. So the 70 years pass, that's the story of Daniel. Daniel actually is in the Babylonian government. He is there to witness the fall of Babylon to a third rising pagan nation state and God rises up the kingdom of Persia and Persia defeats the Babylonians and the king of Persia lets everybody go home. And now God's people begin over three different times to come back to the promised land. That's your story of Ezra in rebuilding the temple. Nehemiah in rebuild or Ezra restarting worship at the temple. Nehemiah rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem. God's people are now back in his promised land, the land that he promised. I will give, he promised Abraham, I will give you as a forever inheritance. This land is going to be yours. They now move back. They rebuild the city. They restart temple worship. They try to rebuild what they had during the Joshua period, but they never quite get it right. This brings us to the end of the Old Testament. God sends them a couple of final prophets after they returned to the land and one of them says, listen, I've heard you. I'm going to send you my promised Messiah, my anointed one. That's what Messiah means in Hebrew, anointed. And you'll know it's him because I'm going to send someone ahead of him, a forerunner who will prepare the way. And that's the final promise from the Old Testament. And then God leaves them on red for a little while. How long did God leave on red? I don't like that phrase. How long did God leave his people on red between the Old Testament and the New Testament? For 400 years, they sat on it. God didn't say anything new. There was no new scripture. There was no new prophets. During that 400 years, some pretty important worldly events happened. Guy named Alexander showed up. He was pretty great, but he died kind of young and his kingdom got fractured. And then the Seleucids, one of his generals, takes over the area that is Jerusalem and they conquer the Jewish people and they enslave them, attacks them, and then they fight against the Seleucids. That's where the Maccabees come from. Ultimately, they're free for like 120 something years. And then another rising pagan nation state, very powerful, shows up. And by the time of the first century, this pagan nation state has conquered the majority of the Mediterranean world. And the name of that empire is Rome. And now Rome is on the scene. And Rome has defeated yet again God's people living in God's land. And this leads to the expectation of the New Testament. Where is our promised Messiah? God told us he would send us a forerunner and a Messiah. And then God breaks his silence and he sends an angel to the temple, to a priest who's burning incense in the holiest of holy places. And the angel sat on, I believe it's the right side of the altar, and he said, you will have a son. And that son will be mine from the time he is born and he will be great because he will begin to prepare the way. What is the name of the priest who was serving in the temple who heard God break the 400-year silence? Zechariah. What is his wife's name? Elizabeth. And what is his very important son's name? John the Baptist. John the Baptist is the last of the Old Testament style prophets. Yes, his story is in the New Testament. I understand that. But John the Baptist is the last of the Old Testament prophets. The last one to be called a prophet before the coming of the promised Messiah. After God sends the angel to Zechariah, he sends another angelic visitor to a young woman pledged to be married to a man named Joseph. And yet before they could come together, she was found to be with child, having conceived by the Holy Spirit. And that very special young woman's name is Mary. And even more importantly, her very special son's name is Jesus. It's kind of a big deal in the story. Jesus shows up on the scene and we don't see much of Jesus from the time he's born. We have like a moment at 12 and then at or about 30. I'm not saying exactly 30. I'm saying at or about 30 years old. Jesus is in the River Jordan. He's baptized by his relative, John the Baptist. The Holy Spirit falls upon Jesus. He begins his earthly ministry. He gathers to himself disciples. Well, there's actually more than 12. We're gonna get into that today. But he gathers to himself disciples. He begins to teach them a new law of God, a new commandment, a new covenant is coming. Ultimately, the Jewish leaders of his day do not like this very much. And they convince Rome to execute him. And if there is one thing that is absolutely beyond historical contestation, it is that the man known as Jesus of Nazareth died by crucifixion in Jerusalem under the authority of Francis Pilate, as the Bible describes it. It's the most historically very Bible fact. So then Jesus dies. Spoiler alert, story's not done. Three days later, Jesus comes back from the dead. The women followers, his faithful women, come to the tomb to prepare his body with additional spices as it would begin to decay and it would smell, they would treat it with spices. And he's not there. And he tells the women, tell my boys, go meet me in the back 40. Go meet me in Galilee, because we're rednecks and that's where we're from. So then Jesus spends 40 days post resurrection in a glorified human form, a rejuvenated, immortal human form, teaching his disciples even more about the kingdom of God. And then that gets us to our sermon from last week. He tells them, listen, I've taught you all these things, but you're not ready yet. Don't leave. Stay in Jerusalem and wait for the gift my father has promised. This is where we pick up the story today. We are now post the ascension. Jesus has left the earth. We are in the 10 days between the ascension of Christ and the falling of the Holy Spirit. So if you give me a second, we flip back to my notes from last week. I know we put a date on this. So the ascension happened on Thursday, May the 18th. Oh, that was much louder than I thought it would be. I apologize. Probably joining us online. Thank you for staying awake. So the ascension occurred on Thursday, May the 18th, and Pentecost occurred on Thursday, May the 28th. So that's where we're at, right here. May the 18th to May the 28th. I argue AD 30. We can have that discussion if you want. Email me later or on your connect card. AD 30, May the 18th to May 28th. Jesus has now ascended. The disciples are waiting but have not yet received the Holy Spirit. And here's Acts chapter 1, verse 15. In those days, those 10 days, in those days, Peter stood up among the believers, a group numbering about 120, and he said, brothers and sisters, the scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke long ago through David concerning Judas, who served as a guide for those who'd arrested Jesus. He was one of our number and shared in our ministry. With the payment he received for his wickedness, Judas bought a field. There he fell headlong, his body burst open, and all his intestines spilled out. Everyone in Jerusalem heard about this. So they called the field in their language, a kaldama, that is field of blood. For, said Peter, it is written in the book of Psalms, may his place be deserted, let there be no one to dwell in it, and may another take his place of leadership. Therefore, it is necessary to choose one of the men who have been with us the whole time the Lord Jesus was living among us, beginning from John the Baptist to the time when Jesus was taken up from us, for one of these must become a witness with us of his resurrection. So they nominated two men, Joseph, called Bar-Sabas, also known as Justice, and Mathias. Then they prayed, Lord, you know everyone's heart. Show us which of these two you have chosen to take over this apostolic ministry, which Judas left to go where he belonged. Then they cast lots, and the lot fell to Mathias, so he was added to the 11th apostle. So now let's go back to Acts chapter 1 verse 15, and now let's break this up a little bit. So I apologize, I forgot to say this at the beginning of the sermon. If you have the catalyst app on your phone, there is a sermon notes button right here. You click on that, it will open all of my sermon notes this morning. You can take notes, you can email it to yourself. You can also ask questions, so that's where the question is going to be. For those of you who are online and in the online chat, our online chat host will drop a link for you to be able to ask questions. When I get done with the sermon, we'll take some questions, but I just want you to know where that is. So we get to Acts chapter 1 verse 15, and the first thing I need you to see, this is point A in your notes, Peter is already leading the earliest followers of Jesus. Peter is in a leadership role when this scene opens. You can see the words in verse 15, in those days. So that's a chronological marker that we're beginning a new scene, right? We watched Jesus ascend, the angels were like, hey dudes, why are you staring up there? That was that scene. Then in those days, just real quick, now we're into a new scene. And in this scene, Peter stood up among the believers, a group numbering about 120. Stop. How many people have seen the chosen, right? Now how many people are worried about what I'm going to say next? Right. So it's so powerful, it's so popular when we see movies or television shows, when we see cinematic representations of the ministry of Jesus, right? You see this super like Holy Jesus character walking around with like 12 bro. The problem is, is that's not historically accurate. And I appreciate the fact that the chosen, from its opening episodes, wove women into the ministry of Jesus. And I appreciate that. I appreciate that. I appreciate that. The Holy Spirit, the chosen, from its opening episodes, wove women into traveling with Jesus. So I'm just going to set the record straight. There are 120 followers of Jesus in this moment, 40 to 49 days after the crucifixion and resurrection. 120 believers. Of those, many of them are women. In fact, I'll go you one further. Ladies, it is most likely the women that financed Jesus traveling, preaching ministry. Most likely a couple of wealthy women who financed Jesus being able to travel, being able to have the money necessary in order to purchase the five loaves and the two fish that he ultimately miraculously did, in order to rent the room for the Last Supper, different things. They would have needed money to do ministry. What I want you to see in Acts chapter one, verse 15, is it's not just the 12 due disciples. There are 120 faithful followers of Jesus. Those 120 people heard his most resurrection, free ascension teachings. And I know I told you last week, we don't have any scriptural record of what Jesus taught during that 40 day period of time. The gospels tell us that he taught during that time. The Bible does not tell us what exactly was taught. I don't know about you, but I got to know. Like my ADHD gets associated on these littlest things. And I want to get to heaven, I'll be like, just take me back, man. Take me back to that moment when it was Easter Sunday morning, what we know is Easter for you. It was just two days after the worst day of your life. And Jesus shows up for the first time. What did he say? You want me to bet what the first thing he had to say was? He either said, don't be afraid, or yo, it's me. One of those two. It's probably his opening line. Whatever Jesus taught during those 40 days miraculously changes these 120 believers from people who are afraid and in hiding to passionately dying to share the message of Jesus. Amazing. But ladies, I would be remiss. I would not be doing my best job if I did not point out that a large majority and perhaps more than 50% of the 120 people mentioned in verse 15 are female, not male. Women have been a part of the leadership of the Christian church from day one. Now that doesn't mean that there's not a very healthy theological debate when we get to the point where we have to be in writing and qualification for this job and that job, sure, bro. Let's go have at me. Let's email. Let's have that fun. But there's no way I want you to hear my sermon and hear the idea that this is 120 dudes because that would be a lie. It's 120 believers in Jesus. And you know, if it wasn't super clear from verse 15, let's just look at verse 16. And he said, brothers and sister. Now, technically, Peter did not say two words. He said one word. He said a Delphoi, which is the pluralized version of a Delphos. In our English language, the best word would be believers. When I say a group of believers, that could be male or female. Right. There's no gender connotation to the word believer. Not like actor versus actress. Right. In our language, actor used to mean male and actress used to mean female. Or firefighter, police officer, flight attendant. Those are now terms that don't denote whether the person is male or female. This word that Peter uses here is the collective group of male and female followers of Jesus. And then he says, the scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke long ago through David. Stop. Did you notice that Peter just referenced the inspiration of the Holy Spirit inspiring the Old Testament through David? Right. He makes a very powerful statement. It is the Holy Spirit who spoke through David. That's why the Old Testament is viewed as the word of God, not the word of man. And he said, David wrote concerning Judas who served as a guide for those who arrested Jesus. Then you get to 17. He was one of our number and he shared in our ministry. Stop. What ministry is Peter referring to? Because we haven't had Pentecost yet. Paul's not on the scene yet. And if he is, he's not friend right now. He's still foe. I submit to you that verse 17 is referring to the ministry of revealing Jesus as the promised Messiah to the Jewish people. That was the mission of the 12. Jesus even said it as plain as day in the Old Testament. The promise of the Lord the Lord of the Rings, the Lord of the Lost of Israel. Yes, there is some Gentile conversion at the end of John. I think that's a great point. And if you want to argue that one, just let me know in your connect card. But I would say that the primary focus of the ministry that Peter is referring to in verse 17 is showing that Jesus is that promised Messiah that Malachi mentioned that the promised Messiah would come, that there would be a forerunner. And that's the story of the Bible and not just like Star Trek being your way into a text without any sort of understanding of its surrounding context. Then this brings me to my second point. Judas' betrayal creates a leadership gap. So Peter is leading a group of 120 believers, male and female, together. And then when we get to verse 18, Peter is now speaking specifically of the leadership gap that is created by Judas' betrayal. Look at verse 18. With the payment he received for his wickedness, Judas bought a field and there he fell headlong, his body burst open, and all of his intestines spilled out. Isn't that a fun Bible verse? Teach your children to memorize that one. So let me deal with the controversy in this verse so that hopefully you don't have to ask this question. The Bible has two descriptions of the purchasing of the field and the Bible has two descriptions of the death of Judas. In Matthew chapter 27 verses 6 and 7 it says that the priests bought the field. In Matthew chapter 27 verse 5 it says that Judas hanged himself. So how can I harmonize Matthew's claim on the events and Luke's claim on the events and show that they do not contradict? Here's the easiest thing I can say. The money. Let's talk about the money. Who paid Judas to betray Jesus? The priests did. What did Judas do with the money after he betrayed Jesus? The money gave it back. So the money started in the priests, it went back to Judas, and then he gave them the money back. The problem is the priests can't take the money back because it was blood money they're not allowed to take it. So what they did is they used that money to buy a field. So who was present at the transaction to buy the field? Most likely one of the priests. But who do you think bought the field? Judas because they can't take the money back. So that easily explains the difference. This is not a contradiction. The Bible is the word of God. It's not conflicting itself. You have to see the whole picture. The priest gave the money to Judas after the betrayal he gave it back. I don't want to keep it. But they can't take the money back. So instead of taking the money back they spin it out and they buy a field. So it is both true that Judas' money bought the field and it is also true that the priest's money bought the field because the money came from the priests and went back to the priests through the hands of Judas. Now let's talk about the death of Judas. Matthew chapter 27 verse 5 says Judas hanged himself. However Luke here in Acts chapter 1 verse 18 says he fell headlong, his body burst open and all of his intestines filled up. How can I harmonize these two accounts? Either he hanged himself or his body fell. Now I don't think that's true. And without being overly super gross because I know everybody wants to go to lunch today, there are certain things that happen to a human body after he dies. And one of those things is it starts to break down and starts to decay. Why? Because God designed our mortal bodies to return to the earth from whence they came. So if he hanged himself like eventually his body would fall from where it was hung and his skin would no longer have a lexicity. And so it can be equally true that he did hang himself and in the heat of the Judean summer sun his body bloated very quickly, it fell and it did what is described here in verse 18. Not a contradiction. Both statements can be true and both statements are describing two different instances. Here's the real question. Why? Why the difference? And this is the question I don't think gets asked enough. You know people just want to come at us and say well your Bible is full of contradiction. But you're not asking the question why would two people refer to the events in two different sets of detail? I mean to modern day today if two people saw a car accident from different angles they'd see different things. So why would we expect people in the ancient world not to see things different? What's the biggest difference between Matthew and Luke? Anybody think about it. Professions, yes, what was Matthew's profession? Tax collector, what was Luke's profession? Doctor. But go deeper, something more worldview related. What's Matthew's religion? He's Jewish. What's Luke's religion? He's Greek. Luke is the only known non-Jewish author of scripture. Luke doesn't have the same worldview. So I looked it up and here's the difference. Matthew is a Jewish writer and Luke is a Gentile. Both of which are educated although I would argue Doctor Luke is probably a little more educated than tax collector Matthew but in order to do business with Greeks Matthew would have also been quite an educated individual. Both authors use a means of death that is considered cursed in their cultural language. Gentiles viewed suicide as honorable. So Luke can't, if Luke is trying to make Judas look like a cursed death he can't simply say he hanged himself because in Roman culture suicide was an honorable way to take your life when you have done something wrong. My family is part Japanese. My father is Hawaiian and native Japanese. The Japanese have an entire process of taking your life in an honorable fashion. Anybody like samurai movies or old school kung fu movies you can see this. They have a way of taking your life that restores honor to your family. The Roman had the same thing. So Luke being a Gentile author and knowing that he doesn't want his Gentile audience to misunderstand he doesn't let Judas simply have committed suicide because a Gentile reader could have went oh well good on him he took ownership of what he done did wrong and he still chose an honorable death. No, Luke intentionally writes something that would have been disgusting and cursed even to a Gentile reader. Matthew doesn't have to do this because the Old Testament says cursed is anyone who is hung on a tree. Somebody said it. Cursed is anyone who is hung on a tree. Matthew knew that hanging was automatically a cursed form of death but for Dr. Luke he needed something more disgusting. So Luke and Matthew are describing two different moments of Judas' death but the reason they are describing him is actually to come back together that Judas was cursed in his death. Verse 19, everybody, everybody in Jerusalem heard about this so they called that field in their language a chaldamma or a chaldamma that is field of blood. Interestingly the word a chaldamma in this verse is not Hebrew or Greek. Does anybody know what the third ancient language is that is in scripture? Aramaic. Somebody said it. That's it. Jesus when he was walking around was most likely trilingual. Hebrew is the language of the Jewish people. Greek is the language of the marketplace or of business and Aramaic is like the bro speak of his day. Aramaic is the blue jeans and ball cap walking down the street, hey, hold my beer, hey, watch this thing. Yo, how you doing? That's Aramaic. That was for all my 10xers and millennials. Trying to translate for you. I'm old so I don't even know what it would be for somebody younger than me. I've got to stick with my generation. That's just that one word. It just lets us know how human Jesus is. How human his people were to use that bro speak word to describe something as disgusting as the field that Judas died in. Then verse 20. For Peter said it is written in the book of Psalms, may his place be deserted, let no one dwell in it and may another one take his place of leadership. Peter is moving multiple Psalms together. Now do I believe that those Psalms are actually prophetically speaking about Judas? No, I don't. What I believe Peter is doing is using scripture and applying it to the situation that he is in. So I would not submit to you that in my view that those verses explicitly speak of Judas in the Old Testament in the same way that like Old Testament prophecies point forward to Jesus. What I would say however is that I think Peter is applying the truth we see of scripture to the situation that he's living in which is the betrayal of Judas. He's not rewriting the meaning of the Psalms. He is applying the Psalms to his everyday life in the same way that each one of us should be applying scripture to our everyday life. Then that gets me to the third point of this sermon. Mathias is added to restore the twelve. We're going to get into the apostolic ministry in a minute but Mathias is added to restore the twelve. So verse 21, after Peter does all this leadership and he quotes and he applies Psalms he says therefore it is necessary to choose one of the men who have been with us the whole time that the Lord Jesus was living among us. 22, beginning from John's baptism to the time when Jesus was taken up from us for one of these must become a witness with us of his resurrection. So what Peter says here is stop y'all, it's going to be the new international bill of transition, stop y'all before we do anything else we must restore the twelve. But the requirements that he puts on the restoration of the twelve, that's what's super important, that's what I want you to see. Number one, it's necessary to restore the twelve, that's verse 21. Number two, choose one of the men. One of the men who have been with us the whole time the Lord Jesus was living among us from John's baptism to when Jesus was taken up from us. Stop. This might be the coolest nugget of the whole sermon, hear this. There were way, this is not the Yoshawdhi moment, that was not the coolest moment, it's right here. Peter is letting us know that there were other followers of Jesus who were with them the entire time, from the time Jesus was baptized all the way through to the time of the ascension, it wasn't just twelve it was a group of men and women. And there's not just that, but there's one of the men who have been with us the whole time. One of those men must be selected to fulfill the role of the twelve, and what is the role of the twelve? For one of these must become a witness with us to the time of his resurrection. So the baptism all the way to the time that is taken up is the only qualified apostolic replacement to fulfill the twelve. You had to be there for the whole kit kibbutzal. You had to be there the whole time or you cannot fulfill this restoration of the twelve. And what is there to be, restoring the twelve is to be a witness of his resurrection. You had to be there for all of his life ministry from the baptism you had to be a physical witness of his resurrection and be there at his ascension or you don't qualify to restore the twelve. That gets me to verse 23 they nominated two. So the way I read scripture that means there was more than two in the group because they had to nominate them. Right? If Peter had put out the job description and said okay let's look in our group of 120 how many of us have men who meet these two requirements? Well listen, I mean if Bill and Jim were the only people left after the qualifications there's not a nomination process. Bill and Jim are the only qualified candidates. But no they nominate two men which in my reading of it states that there are actually more than two who meet those requirements but they nominate two men and in verse 23 we get their name. Joseph called Bersavus also known as Justice. Justice is probably his Greek name. And Mathias. You know what I think is really great? Both of these men meet all of those requirements and are not mentioned at all. Just let that sink in for me. These two men are a group of people who meet all of the requirements that Peter has laid out and yet they're not mentioned. So 24. Then they prayed. They put out the requirements, they nominated two men and it wasn't just an election. This is a selection not an election. They prayed and they say Lord you know everyone's heart. Show us which of these two you have chosen to take over this apostolic ministry which Judas left to go where he belonged. So at the end of this scene one of these two dudes is going to be equal to the other 11 apostles. Why? Because this dude has all the same training. He was there when Jesus fed the 5,000. He was there when Jesus turned water into wine. He was there when Jesus cast the demon out of the Gadarean demoniac. Whatever your favorite gospel story is, these dudes were there. That's why they're equal in training is because they got all the same training. And I also want to point out that Judas did not leave the 12 at the point of his death. He left the 12 at the point of his death. That's important. They're not replacing Judas just because Judas happened to accidentally die. No. Judas betrayed and left and that is what vacated his seat. Then in 26 they cast lots and the lot fell to Mathias and he is added to the apostles. This is falling in line with Proverbs chapter 16 verse 33. The lot is cast into the lap but every decision comes from God. This is also, interestingly, the last time that this form of decision making is used to discern the will of God. Because in the next chapter the Holy Spirit comes and now the Holy Spirit can speak to us directly. Some have tried to argue that Mathias is not a full blooded apostle. That Peter, I mean, excuse me, Paul is God's choice. I disagree. And in order to show you why I disagree, I want to point out something. Peter is not making a line of succession. So if you come from a Catholic background, which I know many here in the catalyst family and many who join us online, Catholics like to argue that Peter created a line of succession. That once a 12 member left he had to be replaced by another 12 member and another 12 member and another 12 member. But that's not what the New Testament does. In fact, when Paul gives instructions for planting churches, he says raise up elders, not raise up apostles. Now in the book of Ephesians it does say that we are going to have apostles, prophets, teachers, pastors and evangelists. I think it's very true. The other thing I think is fantastic is even though this is not a line of succession, Mathias is not mentioned in the gospels at all and he is equal to the other 11 in this scene. So you don't always know when God is going to call you to do the thing that he needs you to do. Mathias was there for everything we read in the gospels as a background character. Everybody thought he was like an NPC. He was just there watching. And now here in this moment he goes from background character to one of the 12 apostles. Why does Peter do this? In my opinion, Peter is leaning heavily on Jesus' words to the apostles when they said that you will judge the 12 tribes of Israel. That's a future ministry that these 12 individuals have to fulfill, which means they have to have 12 seats. I think that's why Peter is doing this. But since that hasn't occurred yet, I will willingly admit that I'm a human and I can be wrong. What I'm not wrong about is that Peter prioritized fulfilling the 12. So I'm going to go try to answer another question before it gets asked. Can someone be an apostle today? I get asked this a lot, so this is a perfect situation to bring this question up. I first need to explain to you that there are three different categories of apostle in the New Testament. There are three different categories and three different groups who are referred to as apostle. So if you allow me this brief theological explanation, I will then directly answer the question, how can someone be an apostle today? So three categories. The first category of apostle in the New Testament is the one we're looking at right here, the 12. The 12 are the original disciples plus Matthias. We just saw the scene where he was selected. He was not elected by the church. He was selected by God. That's what the casting and the lot is for. He was selected by God, not elected by the church. The 12 are the original disciples plus Matthias constitute the group of 12. The second category or type of apostle are resurrection apostles. These are people who are called directly to apostleship by the risen Christ himself. First and foremost, obviously Paul. However, I would argue Barnabas and James also should be in the category of resurrection apostle. They are referred to as apostle in the official title, not just the job function. However, there is a third type of apostle used in the New Testament and that is a missionary apostle for those who are sent to carry the gospel message. The reason the word sent in that line is in quotes is our English word apostle comes from the Greek word apostolos or apostolos, which means one who is sent. So apostle literally means a sent one or one who is sent to carry the message. So the 12, that's 11 plus Matthias, resurrection apostles, that's Paul, Barnabas and James, and then missionary apostles, all those who are sent. The missionary apostles, I would argue Andronicus is in that category. If anyone knows who that is, like a random, rando reference in the New Testament, but there are named people in all three of these groups. Can someone be an apostle today? I would argue that no one can be a part of the 12 today because no one alive today was alive when Jesus was baptized, was present for all of his earthly ministry, was present all the way through his ascension, and we did not witness his resurrection in real time living on earth because we were all born after those events occurred. So number one, the 12 have been restored and there's no 13th in the 12. There are no backup jurors for this group. The 12 are the 12. So no, someone cannot be an apostle in the line of the 12 because they are fully restored and we cannot meet the requirement. So ruled out. Second, resurrection someone who is called directly to the ministry of apostleship by Jesus Christ post resurrection. Is it possible for someone to be one of these? Yes. Is it likely for someone to be one of these? No. Here's why. In order to be considered an apostle in the line of Peter, I mean in the line of Paul and in James. You would have to meet a couple of requirements. Number one, you'd have to be able to show and verify that you were called to apostolic ministry by the actual resurrected Christ. Not just claim it, but verify it. Number two, your life would have to exemplify all of the miraculous miracles that the original apostles verified. Why? Because Paul used that as evidence that he was an apostle. He said, look, I walk in the same power and authority as the 12 because I have been called to be the apostle for the Gentiles while they are the apostle to the Jews. So you'd have to be called to apostleship by the risen Christ. You'd have to have all the same miracles as the risen Christ. Your teaching could never conflict with scripture because it was the original apostles who actually wrote scripture. Number three, I wrote 17 books in the New Testament. James wrote the apostle of James. Barnabas did not do any writing. There is, however, a pseudographical gospel of Barnabas that was not written by Barnabas. It is not authoritative. It is not scripture. It is just a historical document. The problem I have with people who use the word apostle today is not that it's not biblical and it's not that it's not true, but most of the people who are using it really are using it in the third sense, which is the missionary sense. Today we use words like missionary, church planter, church revitalizer. We have all these different terms for someone who is sent to do the mission of the gospel. That is the primary context of someone being an apostle today. If you come across someone who claims to be an apostle in different church traditions, that's a rank. In some church traditions, a pastor pastors a church and an apostle pastors pastor. Okay? But you're not still using the term in the authoritative sense of I get to add pages to scripture. Why? Because the end of the book of Revelation says this book is finished and anyone who adds to this book will experience the plagues here written in. So scripture says scripture is finished. So therefore there are no new apostles writing scripture. However, the other side of the coin is we absolutely need people today who will carry the gospel message to a hurting and dying world. We don't need new foundational apostles. We need new functional apostles. Do you see the difference? Mathias was selected by God to be a foundational apostle and to fulfill a foundational role for the church. Paul even said it. The foundation of the church was laid by the apostle. You don't relay a foundation. You don't build a foundation on a foundation. So the foundational apostles in my view are categories number one and number two. The twelve and the resurrection apostles. Those are foundational apostles. Those roles are closed. However, the missionary apostle or someone who is sent to carry the gospel message that is still open and available. Does that make sense to everybody? I wanted to try to explain that just because when we talk about being selected and some people see it as election or selection, does that mean the church has the power to elect new apostles today who can write scripture? No. We can't do that. That's not how that worky worky. Why? Because we weren't there for all of Jesus' earthly ministry. We are not physical witnesses of his resurrection and you do not walk in the authority to speak equal to scripture. We are sent apostles. We are not foundational apostles. That makes sense. So here's your takeaway and then Mel if you want to start finding me whatever questions, I can do questions for about five minutes. Here's the takeaway. The original apostles completed the foundation but we must continue the mission. Mathias is selected to fulfill the twelve. The resurrection apostles Paul, Barnabas, James, they lay the foundation of Gentile inclusion into Christianity. We are not laying new foundation today. But we are doing ministry in new ways today. Paul never had a live stream. Barnabas had a live chat. I bet you Paul and Barnabas were on a podcast and we get pretty hot pretty quick. We need to carry the gospel message today with the fervor and with the passion that the original apostles did. But we need to be careful of the definitions we use for words because there are no more foundational apostles while there are functional ones.