Observation W verse Additional notes
the five kings who Jos 10:16 the five kings that allied themselves against Gibeon in the first part of the chapter
had fled what Jos 10:16 the tide of battle changed and the kings are now fleeing for their lives
cave at Makkedah where Jos 10:17 this location is mentioned in 10:10 as the extent the armies fled when the Lord fought for Isarel. They were likely hiding in a cave
because of the hailstones the Lord hurled down at their armies. They weren't just hiding the Joshua and the army, but from God Himself
roll large rocks what Jos 10:16 the rocks in this scene is similar to the large piles of rocks that covered the bodies of those who disobeyed like Achen in 7:26 and the
king of Ai after his defeat in 8:29. It could also recall the "stones" the Lord hurled at them. Rock is now the symbol of coming death
post men… but don't stop what Jos 10:18-19 remember, the Lord is still extending the length of the day (10:13-14), Joshua commands his men to guard the kings, but not give up the
advantage of the daylight. The army of God is directed to pursue their enemes before they can reach the safety of their fortifications
defeated them completely what Jos 10:20 notice the action is seen as Joshua and the army completing the work, but the majority of the soliders were killed by God first (10:11)
returned to Makkedah where Jos 10:21 with the army spread out, there is no point in attempting to accomplish multiple seiges at the same time. The army regroups at
Mekkedah to complete the battle that began defending Gibeon from the five allied kings
no one uttered a word what Jos 10:21 literally, "no one sharpened their tongue against Isarel" the fear of the Lord had returned to the southern people of Caanan
put your feet on the necks what Jos 10:22-24 this is a symbol of subjugation and defeat. This was as much a symbol to the people of Israel as it was Canaan.
be strong and courageous what Jos 10:25 the same words which the Lord used in Joshua's call to leadership (1:9, 8:1) Joshua now uses to speak to the people of Israel
this is what the Lord will do what Jos 10:25 the Lord promised the victory over the allied kings (10:7), Joshua encouarges the people that the Lord is true to His Word and this is
what they can expect from Him. We now see Israel portrayed as victorious in obedience to the Lord versus deafeated as in Ai
put the kings to death what Jos 10:26 what is unclear in the text is whether Joshua himself killed each of the five kings, or gave an order to his commanders
exposed… until evening what Jos 10:26 while this seems horrible to our modern standards of warfare, this is ancient middle eastern warfare and this is common practice. What
is unique about Israel's treatment of the conquerored is the bodies are not left to rot, but are required by the Law to be taken down the
same day and buried. You can find this passage in Deut 21:22-23, this illustrates that God's people had to represent Him in how they
fought
at sunset when Jos 10:27 this is the end of the Lord's supernatural extension of the daylight. All that has occurred has been supporte by the Lord's miracle
placed large rocks what Jos 10:27 as before, the bodies of the defeated disobedient are buried under large rocks (7:26, 8:29)
to this day when Jos 10:27 this reference is to the time of the writing, not the time of our reading today
The southern campaign at this point the narrative picks up speed and sumarizes the victories over the southern installations in Caanan. I have abbreviated the
text into a list so it easier to see the action of the people in the south.
City Victims Weapon Comparison
Makkedah king, city, people sword like Jericho
Libnah king, city, people sword, like Jericho
Lachish king, city, people sword like Libnah
Gezer king, people ? ?
Eglon king, city, people sword like Lachish
Hebron king, cities, people sword like Eglon
Debir king, cities, people sword like Hebron, Libnah
what happened to Gezer what Jos 10:33 the text does not state that the city of Gezer was defeated. It could be because the king and all the soliders came to aid Lachish and was
defeated so it is a given that the city fell. Or it could be that with the king and soliders defeated the people of that city surrendered.
why all the killing? when we approach passages like this, we must remember two things. First, the idea that the wholesale slaughter of all Canannites
happened is false. All we need to do is read on in the Bible and see the affect that native Canaanites had on Israel in the book of Judges
to see this is simply not the case. But we should also look to God's instructions to the people for why they were to be so extreme. Here
is the Lord's commands from Deuteronomy 20:10-18
When you march up to attack a city, make its people an offer of peace. If they accept and open their gates, all the people in it shall be
subject to forced labor and shall work for you. If they refuse to make peace and they engage you in battle, lay siege to that city. When
the LORD your God delivers it into your hand, put to the sword all the men in it. As for the women, the children, the livestock and
everything else in the city, you may take these as plunder for yourselves. And you may use the plunder the LORD your God gives you
from your enemies. This is how you are to treat all the cities that are at a distance from you and do not belong to the nations nearby.
However, in the cities of the nations the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance, do not leave alive anything that breathes.
Completely destroy them—the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites—as the LORD your God has commanded
you. Otherwise, they will teach you to follow all the detestable things they do in worshiping their gods, and you will sin against the
LORD your God.