Observation W verse Additional notes
After the death of Moses when Jos 1:1 Moses death is recorded in Deut 34:1-5. Because of his disobedience, Moses was not allowed to cross over into the
promisedland, but God in His grace allowed him to see it before he died. The events of the book of Joshua pick up right
where the closing of the book of Deuteronomy leaves off.
Joshua, Moses aid who Jos 1:1 The beginning of Joshua's leadership is also recorded in the closing of the book of Deuteronomy. In Deut 31:7-8, Moses tells
Joshua to be "strong and courageous" and that he (Joshua) will not only lead the people into the promised land, but will also
be responsible for the distribution of the land to the people. In Deut 34:9, Moses lays his hands on Joshua and Joshua is filled
with "the spirit of wisdom" and Joshua becomes the new leader of God's covenant people. The Hebrew word used for 'spirit'
in this verse is 'Ruach' is the name for the Holy Spirit in Hebrew. As Moses aid, Joshua observed the man of God leading the
people of God to obey the word of God. With the power of the Spirit, this task is now Joshua's to continue
cross the Jordan river where Jos 1:2 the river that flows from Mount Hermon, south into the Sea of Galilee, then south again to the Dead Sea on the eastern side
of the promised land
into the land what Jos 1:2 the land is not just any land, but the very land God promised to Abraham his descendants would receive (Gen 13:14-17) the
reception of the land from God was always a part of the covenant relationship between Israel and God Himself
I am about to give them what Jos 1:2 God is the one who "gives" the land because it is God who created it and promised it to the patriarchs generations before
every place you set your foot what Jos 1:3 this is a repeat of a promise the Lord had already made in Deut 11:24
from the desert to Lebanon where Jos 1:4 these are the southern (desert) and northern (Lebanon) borders of the land being given
river to the sea where Jos 1:4 these ar the easetern (river) and western (sea) borders of the land being given
No one will stand against you what Jos 1:5 this is a repeat of the same promise given in Deut 7:24
as I was with Moses what Jos 1:5 this is a powerful statement for Joshua to hear from the Lord. Moses is arguably the most powerful prophet leader of the
entire Old Testament. Deut records that "no prophet has risen in Israel like Moses".
never leave you or forsake what Jos 1:5 another repeated from from the Lord about his faithfulness, this promise occurs both in Gen 28:15 and Deut 4:31
you
be strong and courageous what Jos 1:6 probably the most famous line from the opening chapter of the book, Joshua is reminded many times. Thought it may be
easy to view the 'strength' and 'courage' as mere human strength and courage in battle, there is a deeper meaning intended
in that the strength of character and courage of faith will be required of Joshua (and indeed all the people) in order to fully
recieve the land the Lord is providing them. Yes, they did have to fight to recieve the land, but God has already made clear He
is the one who is giving it. Joshua and the people must have the strength and courage of faith to do as the Lord instructs.
you will lead these people what Jos 1:6 Joshua is the newly appointed leader of the people, commissioned by Moses and the Holy Spirit to lead the people of God
to inherit the land what Jos 1:6 leading to "inherit" is different than leading to capture for one's self, God will 'give' and the people will 'inherit'
I swore to their ancestors what Jos 1:6 Genesis records the giving of the covenant to Abraham, Isaac, and then Jacob. Joshua is the fulfillment of that promise
be careful to obey… that you what Jos 1:7 God links the reception of the inheritence of the land with the obedienec of the people. It was always God's plan to give the
may be sucessful land to His chosen people, but the blessing of inheritence is given through the responsibility of obedience
on your lips / medidate day when Jos 1:8 God intends for His people not only to read His Law when it is time for worship or celebration, but that the memorizing and
and night repeating of the Scripture would be a daily occurrence in the lives of His people.
so you may be careful to do what Josh 1:8 keeping the Scriptures in the forefont of one's mind and conversation is what drives on to obedience
then you will be prosperous what Jos 1:8 the prosperity and victory of inheritence is directly linked to the obedience of the people
do not be afriad/discouraged what Jos 1:9 fear and discouragement are the two biggest enemies to obedience, Joshua is reminded of this before the events unfold
I will be with you what Jos 1:9 the presence of the Lord is that which dispells fear and discouragement, allowing us to walk in obedience receiving blessing
Joshua ordered the officers what Jos 1:10 the command to be obedient was given to Joshua, but also was intended for the people as a whole to obey God in all things
three days when Jos 1:11 this time table will be extended to seven days due to the delay of the return of the spies from Jericho
Eastern tribes who Jos 1:12-13 the descendants of Reuben, Gad, and Manassah were to live in the land east of the Jordon river
stay in the land where Jos 1:14 the Eastern Tribes were given the land by Moses in Num 32:16-32 and Deut 3:18-20 but still had to particpate in the
reception of the inheritance for the rest of the nation before being able to finally 'rest' in their own allotted land
ahead of the Isrealites where Jos 1:14-15 it would have been too easy for those who had already received their inheritence to abandon their brothers to fight for
theirs. In order to ensure they were committed to the cause for the nation, they had to lead the charge in battle (Jos 4:12).
Only after the rest of the tribes had fully recieved their inheritence from the Lord would the Eastern Tribes be allowed to
'rest' in theirs
whatever/wherever what Jos 1:16 the first response from the people of God is seen here, it is a full and complete commitment to obey Joshua's leadership
just as we obeyed Moses what Jos 1:17 this statement is completely ironic seeing as an entire generation of Israelites had to die in the wildreness because of their
disobednece to Moses' leadership, this foreshadows Israel's continued struggle with obedience to God and her leaders
only may the Lord be with you what Jos 1:17 while in English this feels like a wish, it is actually a statement of fact. They are confirming the Lord is with Joshua
shall be put to death what Jos 1:18 the people confirm not only their desire but also their future as several people will die because of disobedence in Joshua