Observation W verse Additional notes
Joshua had grown old when Jos 13:1 the time of the text takes a large leap forward to the time when Joshua was "old". He could be around 85 like Caleb (14:10)
large areas of land where Jos 13:1 Joshua directive from the Lord was not only to lead the receiving of the land, but its distribution as well (1:6)
I will drive them out what Jos 13:6 remember, God was working ahead of and through the actions of His people. He drove many out ahead of Joshua and the army
land as inheritance what Jos 13:7 possibly the largest theme in the book, the land itself is what is being given by God and received by His people
the Hebrew word /na-ha-LA/ is the word translated "inheritance" it is used more in the book of Joshua than any where else in Scripture. It
is used 50 times in the book of Joshua, 46 times in Numbers, and 25 times in Deuteronomy. That's 121 of the 220 in the entire Bible!
Taken as a whole, this shows that more than half the times this word is used, it refers to the land given to Isreal by God Himself
Eastern lands distributed where Jos 13:8-33 half of the tribe of Mannaseh, Reuben, and Gad receive their allotments as described. (the wives and children have been living there
since they crossed over at the beginnig of the book.
Levi, no inheritance who Jos 13:14 for a book that is largely about land inheritance, the Levites do not receive one at all. Because they were to be set apart from the rest of
the Lord's people as His chosen servants and given the food offerings that were presented to the Lord as their inheritance.
[purpose for inheritance] what The Levites receiving food instead of land brings into focus a major theme of the land inheritance, the ability to grow crops, raise animals,
and feed one's family. This is why it is so important that land never be sold outside one's clan (Lev 25:25) and that all land be returned to
the appropriate tribe at the Year of Jubilee (Lev 25:1-13, 25). The inheritance of the land was intended to be for the provision and
blessing for God's people. This did not stop them from being good stewards of the land, but the purpose of God's inheritance was
continued provision and blessing for His people. This divine act of grace would be a testimony to the world of the faithfulness of Israel's
God.
Western land distributed where Jos 14:1-19:51 The next six chapters denote the land given to each of the 9.5 tribes that will live on the western side of the Jordan River.
The Levites… cities where Jos 14:5 here we see that the Lord has given certain cities within the lands to the levites. This is a part of their inheritance. They were to be
dispursed among all of the other tribes. It is my (Pastor Bill) opinion that the reason for this is because the Levites were to lead the people
in worshipping God. The Levites were to live among them and keep the "heart of worship" alive in all the lands of God's people, not just
the "worship leader land".
Land for Caleb what Jos 14:6-15 Caleb, the only other faithful spy in the original incursion before the wilderness wandering (see Num 13-14). The Lord has sustained him
and now he receives the inheritance his faithfulness has earned.
the land had rest from war what Jos 14:15 as in Joshua 11:23, again we see "the land" as portrayed as resting from war, God's promises and provision are for peace and blessing
land for Judah Jos 15 the land is divided among the tribe by clans and families
to this day… live among what Jos 15:63 again, another example to refute the idea that the Israelites wholesale killed all the Caananites
land for Ephraim & Manasseh what Jos 16-17 these are the "half sons" of Joseph born while he was in slavery in Egypt at the back part of the book of Genesis
to this day… live among what Jos 16:10 again, another example to refute the idea that the Israelites wholesale killed all the Caananites
land for Benjamin what Jos 18:11-27 the land is divided among the tribe by clans and families
land for Simeon what Jos 19:1-9 the land is divided among the tribe by clans and families
land for Zebulun what Jos 19:10-16 the land is divided among the tribe by clans and families
land for Issachar what Jos 19:17-23 the land is divided among the tribe by clans and families
land for Asher what Jos 19:24-31 the land is divided among the tribe by clans and families
land for Naphtali what Jos 19:32-39 the land is divided among the tribe by clans and families
land for Dan what Jos 19:40-48 the land is divided among the tribe by clans and families
land for Joshua what Jos 19:49-51 the land is given to Joshua for his service to the Lord and the people
they finished dividing the land what Jos 19:51 the section ends with a clear ending point, this ends the division of the inheritance of the land to God's people