Observation W verse Additional notes
gates of Jericho what Jos 6:1 the same gates that were shut when the spies were hiding at Rahab's house (2:5,7)
securely barred what Jos 6:1 the gates were the part of the city that kept them safe from outside attack. This likely also illustrates the fear of the Israelites as well.
the LORD who Jos 6:2 Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel
Joshua who Jos 6:2 the newly anointed and apointed leader and sucessor to Moses
I have delivered what Jos 6:2 the Lord makes clear again that it is HE who has given the city of Jericho to Joshua and the Israelites. This is a fulfillment of the promise
made through Moses to the people back in Dueteronomy 7:24. Interestingly, the way God speaks to Joshua is in a past tense. In Hebrew,
this verb form is referred to as the "prophetic perfect" and is spoken of as already accomplished from God's persective
March around the city what Jos 6:3 the instruction from the Lord feels counter-intuitive from a military standpoint. How does marching around somewhere lead to the
capturing of a fortified location. This tested the Israelites faith in God, the very thing the previous generation had failed to do
seven priests / rams horns who Jos 6:4 another example of this being a campaign of faith is the leading by priests and the Ark, it was God and his servants who led the people.
This also may be seen as an example of "worship as warfare" the priests carrying instruments lead the presenece of God among HIs
people in order to receive the victory God has decided beforehand they are to receive
seven days / seven times what Jos 6:4 In the Bible, the number seven is often associated with perfection. There were seven days of marching, seven times on the seventh day,
seven priests, and seven rams horns. While this may seem silly to the human perspective, this was the perfect way to show God's power
when you hear, give a shout what Jos 6:5 the people did not bring ladders to scale the walls or anything to dig their way into the city, they were merely instructed to give a shout
wall of the city will collapse what Jos 6:5 the combined voice of the people, obeying the Lord, made the difference in this engagement. The people's voice did not bring down the
wall, God's power did, but His people had to trust Him and follow in obedience unlike their forefathers
trumpets what Jos 6:8-9 the significance of the trumpet is directly related to the worship of God. In Numbers 10:10, we see the trumpets are connected with the
religious feasts Israel was to keep annually to worship God. The trumpets were used to announce the presence of God among His
people. By requiring the people to announce the Lord of Heaven's presence among the people, God was teaching his children that He is
the One who will go before them, open the way to the land, and be their security and protector. The walls and strategies of men would
not be able to stand against the power and presence of the Lord God of Israel
Do not raise your voices what Jos 6:10 Joshua gave clear instructions not to shout or speak until they were given the command. This relegated the people to the position of
obedience only. There was nothing the army of Israel did until the trumpet blast that helped to defeat the city
they did this for six days when Jos 6:11-14 the obedience of the people was not a one time ordeal, they were required to obey the Lord for the entire week. This illustrates their
trust through obedience over time.
at daybreak when Jos 6:15 the time of day illustrates the importance of the task. There was nothing more important than obeying the Lord
Shout… has given you the city what Jos 6:16 the shout now comes from the people after a week of trusting in silence, they shout to the glory of God and truthfulness of His Word
devoted to the Lord what Jos 6:17 the Hebrew word used here is 'he-rem' and it means to be "under the ban" this means that the people could not take or keep anything
from the spoils of the city. This is an illustration of the "first fruits" principle that the Lord's people needed to trust Him with the first
fruits of their financial gain. They would be allowed to take from subsequent battles, but this first one must be dedicated to the Lord.
except Rahab… all with her who Jos 6:17 because of the deal struck by the spies in chapter two, Rahab and all her were in her home with her at the time of the invasion would be
saved from annihilation. This salvation is a direct result of her faith and actions in chapter two.
keep away from the 'he-rem' what Jos 6:18 another clear test of obedience, the people were not permitted to take anyting that has already been devoted to the Lord. However, this
instruction also comes with a promise. The people are told not to bring about "their own destruction" by disobedience.
Camp of Israel liable who Jos 6:18 notice the Lord will hold the entire community of Israel accountable for the actions of each individual solider within their ranks. While
they each had to follow the Lord faithfully as individuals, the reception of the Abrahamic promises was a corporate inheritance
silver, gold, bronze, iron what Jos 6:19 all the precious metals were to be given to the Temple Treaurery ie, given to the Lord as offerings of obedience
destroyed every living thing what Jos 6:21-25 At this point we cannot and should not ignore or gloss over the hard truths of Scripture. The hardest part of a pssage like this is seeing
the Israelites killing "innocent" people at the instruction of God. Here's a few things to keep in mind when dealing with this subject.
1: In Exodus 23:27-30 God told Moses He would drive out the inhabitants of the land with natural forces before their arrival
2: Jericho was largely a military installation and not a residential town. Notice Joshua only mentions "fighting men" (Jos 6:2)
3: The entire reason the God's people did not stay in the land during the time of Abraham was because of Canaanite sin (Gen 15:16)
4: The wages of sin is always death (Romans 6:23)
4: Even in the midst of God's judgment on the sin of the Canaanites, salvation by faith is still in view protrayed in Rahab and her family
5: All way back during the time Noah, a curse was placed on Caanan that it would eventually serve Shem's descendants (Gen 9:24-27)
6: This is not the first time the Lord has pronouced destruction on an entire city, Remember Sodom and Gomorrah (Gen 19)
7: The Canaanites as a people group were never completely destroyed, as Isreal struggled with idolatry for the entire Old Testament
8: This is a DESCRIPTIVE text for this one time and should NEVER be considered prescriptive for anyone at any other time after this
Rahab… to this day when Jos 6:25 this most literally means that Rahab herself was still living among the Israelites at the time of the writing of the book, though it is also
possible that as ancient people saw their ancestors as "living on" through them, this could also refer to her family line being among the
Israelites. Remember Rahab was the mother of Boaz, who married Ruth who was the great-grandfather of King David. (Matt 1:5)
Cursed before the Lord what Jos 6:26 this curse stood unapplied for centures until 1 Kings 16:34 when this exact thing happened and it was remember
So the Lord was with Joshua what Jos 6:27 the completion of this pericope, the theme stands that the Yahweh, the covenant God was with Joshua leading His people