Observation W verse Additional notes
Jabin, king of Hazor` who Jos 11:1 the word king used here is similar to the rest of the book, the ruler or commander of an area, the head of the aristocracy
Hazor where Jos 11:1 Hazor is located about two or three miles north of the Sea of Galilee
he sent word what Jos 11:1 following the same playbook as the southern kings, the northern kings form an alliance to stand against Israel
norhtern kings where Jos 11:2-3 please see the map included below to see where all these places are located, the area is vast
a huge army who Jos 11:4 the historian Josephus speculated this army could have been 300,000 infantry, 10,000 cavalry, and 20,000 chariots
the waters of Merom where Jos 11:5 this location is due west of Hazor, likely in a place where the ground was flatter and lended itself to the use of chariots
to fight against Israel what Jos 11:5 the text leaves no room for error, the coalition of northern kings purpose is to fight against Israel. Peace was not an option.
the LORD who Jos 11:6 Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel
said to Joshua who Jos 11:6 the apointed and anointed prophet and military leader of Israel, the sucessor of Moses
do not be afraid what Jos 11:6 this command is repeated many times; 9 times in Deuteronomy and 5 times in Joshua. The fact that this needed to be repeated should
make it clear that there was reason (from a human perspective) to fear. The encouragement doesn't make sense if not. God's plans will
always overshadow the appearance of the situation in the natural view at the time
by this time tomorrow when Jos 11:6 there is a juxtaposition in timing in this chapter, the first appears here where God promises a decisive victory in a single day
I will hand them over what Jos 11:6 again, the book of Joshua frames the Lord as the victor of the engagement, "giving" the enemy to His people. This sovereign declaration
however does not absolve Joshua and the armies of Israel from (a) going to battle or (b) remaining obedient to the Lord
hamstring their horses what Jos 11:6 this seems like needless violence to us, but understanding the time period, horses were a powerful military weapon. There are three
reasons for the laming of the horses: (a) God does not want Israel trusting in military technology, their trust is to be in Him, (b) as Israel
was a fast moving infantry, they had no need for the horses and did not want to leave them available for the enemy to use a second
time, (c) the breeding and amassing of horses was a measurement of wealth and blessing another thing Israel was go receive from God
alone
burn their chariots what Jos 11:6 like the horses, the chariots were a symbol of military strength that could lead God's people astray. Additionally, chariots are largely an
offensive weapon and not a defensive weapon. God's people were not to attack beyond the borders God alloted them.
came against them suddenly what Jos 11:7 as in the battle with the southern kings, Joshua uses a strategy of speed a surprise to attack a larger enemy causing them to dispurse
the LORD gave them what Jos 11:7 again, the Lord is the cause of victory, not the military strength of Israel or the tactical design of Joshua
no survivors were left who Jos 11:8 the survivors mentioned here are of the army that stood in alliance against Israel, not each and every town represented
hamstrung / burned what Jos 11:9 Joshua and all Israel is obedient to the Lord's command, the true source of their blessing and victory
totally destroyed everyone who Jos 11:11 the everyone in this verse refers to all the people in the city of Hazor at the time of Israel's arrival
burned Hazor itself where Jos 11:11 this is the only city mentioned in this chapter that is burned. Likely because it is the instagator of the northern alliance
all these royal cities where Jos 11:12 it is not necessary to assume Joshua destroyed every city and/or human being, but that Joshua demolished the aristocracy and
leadership of the northern cities so that there was no longer any structure or force that would stand against God's distribution of the
land as He had previously told Abraham would occur.
as Moses had commanded what Jos 11:15 directions from Moses can be found in Numbers 33:50-52, Deuteronomy 7:2, obedience to God's direction brought success (Jos 1:7)
Joshua took this entire land what Jos 11:16 this is theologically signifant as the purpose of the conquest was not to "take" but to "receive" from the Lord. This is the first time we
see the people of God posessing the land of God, yet not without foreigners still living amongst them.
waged war… a long time when Jos 11:18 this is the other part of the juxaposition of timing in this chapter. While the opening victory was completed in a day, the longer standing
fight to keep Israel pure and untainted by Canaanite idolatry took much longer and isn't as quick and extreme as is often accused
hardened their hearts what Jos 11:20 this is a hard truth for us to accept, but it is no less a Scriptural one. We must also remember, God told Abraham more than 400 years
before these events that they would transpire as they have (Gen 15:16). We must also remember that Abraham was not permitted to
tak the land of Canaan by force as Joshua did because the sin of the land was not "full" yet. Remember, God used natural means to
drive them out ahead of the Isrealites (Ex 23:27-30). Rahab and her entire family were saved because for the 40 years since the parting
of the Red Sea, the people of Canaan had heard about the things the Lord had done (Jos 2:9-11). After all of this, those who remained
were standing in opposition to all that God had already done. Their time of judgment had come.
the land had rest from war what Jos 11:23 the final words of this chapter reveal a main theme, "the land" is a character of sorts being promised and now delivered by God to His
promised people who will remain in it as long as they live in obedience to Him.