Observation W verse Additional notes
early in the morning when Jos 3:1 the same as saying "first thing" implying the importance of the action taken
Joshua who Jos 3:1 the newly apointed and anointed leader of the nation of Israel.
all the Israelites who Jos 3:1 the nation of God's covenant people whom he chose and is giving the land of Canaan to as their inheritance
at Shittim where Jos 3:1 Joshua camps just northeast of where the Jordan river meets the dead sea.
the Jordan river what Jos 3:1 the natural barrier that God would use to illustrate his power and provision for His people
three days what Jos 3:2 while the Christian reader is tempted to immediately connect this with the three days Christ was in the tomb, there are several other
three day references in the Bible. Genesis 40:13, and the previous chapter in Joshua 2:16. This could be the three days that Joshua was
referring to and it was delayed by the spies late return to the camp.
the officers who Jos 3:2 these are not just military officers in the strict sense, remmeber this is a nation not just an army. These are likely the "leading men" that
are appointed to leadership in Deuteronomy 1:15
the Ark of the Covenant what Jos 3:3 the physical symbol of the Lord's presence among His people. The instructions to have the Ark lead the people was a physical
representation of the Lord's leading of His chosen covenant people. There is also an interesting parallel here between this scene and the
moment Israel left the foot of Mount Sinai, it was a three day travel following the Ark of the Lord in Numbers 10:33
Levitical Priests who Jos 3:3 those from the Tribe of Levi who were chosen to be God's servants among His people. This also illustates the spiritual nature of the
campaign over the military nature. The priests, not soldiers, lead the people to receive the Lord's land for them.
move… follow it what Jos 3:3 the people's job was not to "take" but to "follow" the Lord's plan
know which way to go where Jos 3:4 this generation is the one that has survived the wilderness wandering period and has now come of age to take receipt of the promised
land, but they have never been "this way" before and must submit to the Lord, following His leading
keep a distance where Jos 3:4 the distance is about 3,000 feet or 900 meters. This distance is out of respect and submission. The Ark was the very presence of God and
the people needed to be reminded to keep is sacred and not get "too close for comfort" with the Lord's presence
consecrate yourselves what Jos 3:5 to consecrate something is to make and declare it holy from that point on. The main focus of this "making holy" is not the object or
person, but the purpose for which is it is being dedicated. The holiness of God requires His people to be holy. See Leviticus 11:44
the LORD who Jos 3:5 the covenant name for God, Yahweh. This further emphasizes the covenant nature of the land and not merely military conquest
amazing things what Jos 3:5 the actions of God have always been something His people were intended to share with others. See Psalm 26:7, 75:1
pass on ahead of the peopl where Jos 3:6 it was the presence of God, carried by His priests who lead the people, not the other way around
I will exalt you who Jos 3:7 It is God's selection, anointing, and power working in the midst of His people that establshes Joshua's leadership, not his own strength,
intelligence, or any other human ability. God chose His servant and exalted Him in the midst of His people
I am with you… as with Moses what Jos 3:7 Moses is the greatest deliverer character of the Old Testament. Even in Jesus day, they looked back to the one who would be "like
Moses" as a sign of the coming Messiah. To be "with Joshua as with Moses" was quite a powerful statement.
go stand in the river where Jos 3:8 this is another command from the Lord that does not make any sense in the natural understanding. Why do priests, carrying a box,
standing in a river make the best choice to lead a campaign of conquest? Because the book is not about concquest, but reception of
blessing and provision from the Lord Himself.
listen to the Words of the Lord what Jos 3:9 the Words of the Lord have always been the proper instruction and direction for the Lord's people. Nothing else will lead to blessing.
Lord your God who Jos 3:9 interestingly, the "your" in this verse is actually in the Hebrew. It literally reads "Yahweh (your) Elohim" or the Covenant Maker who is
your divine ruler or highest authority
this is how you will know what Jos 3:10 Joshua offers "evidence" to the people of how they will know that the Lord will fulfill the covenant promise made to Abraham that his
ancestors would inherit this land in Genesis 15:18-21
Lord of all the earth who Jos 3:11 the theological understanding of God's authority over the earth is what gives reasoning for the giving of the land to Israel. Because God's
authority over the whole earth is absolute, He and He alone has the right to give the land to His people.
twleve men… from each tribe who Jos 3:12 this symbolic choosing of a twelve is to illusrate the collective receipt of the Land. The Lord is giving the land to all His people
as soon as when Jos 3:13 the immediacy of this event is supernatural. This is not a gradual "drying up" or "diverting" of the river. This is as supernatural of a water
crossing as the Red Sea event was to the generation coming out of Egypt was. Keep in mind these events should have happened to the
same generation. It was only because of disobedience that the 40 year wilderness wandering happened.
waters… standing up what Jos 3:14 this is exactly like the Red Sea crossing, the Lord caused the river to "stand up" something that was un-natural and could only be caused
by the supernatural intervenion of the Lord of all the earth. See Exodus 14:22
flood stage what Jos 3:15 the point here is the river was "swollen" with rain water and the time of year. There is no explaining away the miracle as merely a
drought or dry season. God performs a miracle to illusrate His power to provide for His people and fulfill His promises.
great distance away where Jos 3:16 the distance is likely between 20 and 26 miles away! This is not an accident or something that can be explained away
completely cut off what Jos 3:16 the description is one of "complete" stoppping of the water, like the Red Sea, the people crossed a water way on dry ground
the whole nation crossed what Jos 3:17 the similarities with the Exodus story are undeniable:
1. The entire nation is the focus of God's miraculous power
2. A barrier of water is separated
3. Dry ground is crossed
4. God is glorified
5. God's servant is honored / exalted
6. It is a testimony of the power of God and the specialty of His people