Observation W verse Additional notes
consider therefore what Rom 11:22 Paul stands on the argument made in the previous verses (did not spare the natural branches) to make his next point
kindness / sterness what Rom 11:22 juxtaposing two character traits, Paul illustrates God is BOTH kind and stern, we must hold His character in balance and not
over extend only one part, like His love, to the point that God's love is a justification for continued sin
to those who fell who Rom 11:22 this is the same as the "roots" in the previous section, the Jewish peole who rejected their Messiah
kindness to you who Rom 11:22 this is the same as the "wild olive branch" in the previous section, the Gentile Christians
provided that you continue what Rom 11:22 repeating the warning from verse 21, Paul reminds the Gentile Christians to be humble and obedient in the grace of God
if they who Rom 11:23 the "they" in this verse is the unbelieving Jews the "branches" that were broken off mentioned in verse 17
do not persist in unbelief what Rom 11:23 interesting that Paul calls "unbelief" the thing the Jews are persisting in, they must reliquish it to turn to belief
will be grafted in what Rom 11:23 not to leave the question unanswered, the "broken branches" will be grafted in because of faith just like the "wild branches"
after all… much more readily what Rom 11:24 in another warning to Gentile Christians to stay humble, Paul uses the difference in "branches" to illustrate how much easier
it will be for a Jew to come to faith in the Messiah than a Gentile to come to faith in Christ. They are re-joining their own tree!
do not want you to be ignorant what Rom 11:25 Paul's motivation for writing is from a place of concern for the understanding of the Church. Specifically as it relates to the
election of Israel and how their rejection of the Messiah relates to the fulfillment of the outstanding promises
enemies for your sake who Rom 11:25 the Jews in rejecting Jesus became "enemies" or those opposed to God's work, in order that Gentile salvation be possible
as far as election is concerned what Rom 11:25 despite their current "enemy" status, this does not revoke their election as God's chosen people
on account of the Patriarchs what Rom 11:28 notice Paul roots the Jewish relationship with God all the way back to the covenantial relationship with the Patriarchs
God's gifts and call what Rom 11:29 in light of the Patriarchal reference, I (Pastor Bill) believe this to be a reference to the oustanding OT promises for Israel
are irrevocable what Rom 11:29 given the context, I (Pastor Bill) do not believe this is a reference to pre-destined Gentile faith, but the everlasting nature of
God's covenant promises to Israel which have yet to be fulfilled
you… one time… disobedient who Rom 11:30 this a reference to Gentile Christians
they… now become disobedientwho Rom 11:30 this is reference to Jewish people who have rejected their Messiah
they too may receive mercy who Rom 11:31 the "they" in this verse is the Jews who come to faith in Christ
result of God's mercy to you who Rom 11:31 the "you" in this verse is Gentile Christians, through whom God will show mercy to His chosen people the Jews
everyone to disobedience what Rom 11:32 the Gentiles were disobedient in the beginning, and the Jews were chosen but then became disobedient. Everyone is
thus disobedient to God at some point
mercy on them all what Rom 11:32 God shows His mercy on the Gentiles through the disobedience of the Jews and then shows His mercy on the Jews through the
ministry of Christ in the Gentile Church. Thus everyone is both disobedient AND receives God's mercy. This is a big picture
illustration of the pastoral purpose of the letter uniting the Jewish and Gentile first century Church
closing praise or doxology what Rom 11:33-36Paul bursts into a "poem of praise" for God's grace illustrated in these verses.
depth of riches what Rom 11:33 God's wisdom, knowledge, and judgments are gracious in having mercy on all through their own disobedience!
knows the mind of the Lord what Rom 11:34 God's ways are so much greater, we could never have conceived of the way He shows His love to us
that God should repay what Rom 11:35 God does not "owe" humanity His love or grace, He gives it freely to us all
from…through… and for Him what Rom 11:36 God is the source, cause, and purpose of all the "good things" He does. We are not any of them.