Observation W verse Additional notes
I speak the truth what Rom 9:1 Paul is passionate about the fact the truth he is going to teach is the truth in Christ. The truth in quesiton here, is a the question
of God's faithfulness and the trustworthy nature of God's promises if (as it may have seemed to the original audience) that
the Lord had forgotten or worse broken his promises with Israel. To the contrary, God had not forgotten His people at all.
the question can be framed this way, "What happens to God's people now that they have missed their Messiah?"
I am not lying what Rom 9:1 this is proved by the fact he is telling the truth, but the admitiance of "not lying" adds to the truth of his presentation
my conscience… Holy Spirit what Rom 9:1 notice Paul does not appeal to his conscience alone, but his mind in submission to the Holy Spirit
great sorrow / anguish what Rom 9:2 Paul is emotionally destraught at the plight of his people Isreal living in defiance to their Covenant God
I wish I was accursed what Rom 9:3 though Paul does have the authority to "trade places" with his people, this text shows Paul's emense passion for his people
the people of Israel who Rom 9:3 Paul is speaking of his own people, his kinsmen, the chosen people of Israel with whom God had made a covenant
(description of Israel) what Rom 9:4-5 Paul's lengthly description here is of the nation of Israel, the same nation that just rejected their own Messiah sent to them
by the God who had made promises to them in the Old Testament. Despite this rejection, Paul still views his chosen people
as being "adopted" having "divine glory", having received the "covenants" and "the law". The patriarchs of the people began
the line of grace that led to the Messiah, Jesus Christ. These are all still applicable to the Jewish people today.
Clearly, with this as the opening focus, Paul is addressing the problem of Israel's disobedience and God's promises
what happens to Israel's covenant blessings now that they are disobedience having rejected their Messiah?
God's Word has not failed what Rom 9:6 why would this question be asked? Paul is framing the accusation that God has forgotten Israel because of Spirit has been
given to Gentiles as part of the newly formed church. This fits well with the pastoral focus of the letter bridging the gap
and bringing peace between Jewish and Gentile believers
not all who are descended what Rom 9:6-8 we must remember the promsies of the Abrahamaic Covenant were given first to Abraham, then repeated to Isaac, then
repeated again to Jacob, who then became Israel. There is a divine selection of this line if lineage to be the line of descendancy
through which the Messiah would come.
children of the promise who Rom 9:8 the children of the promise are those from each generation of the descendants that were chosen to carry God's promise
Sarah will have a son who Rom 9:9 this is reference to Isaac, not Ishamael the illegitimate son they attempted to "make" into the child of promise
Jacob and Esau who Rom 9:10-13 the covenantial selection continues for another generation when God "chose" Jacob over Esau, not because of anything either
had done, but to fufill His divine will of being the covenant carrier
what shall we say? what Rom 9:14 to combat the accusation that God is unjust in selecting the patriarchs to serve Him, Paul rhetorically asks the question, Is
God being unfair? No, choosing select individuals to serve Him is NOT unfair in the working of His purposes in and through us