Observation W verse Additional notes
he says to Moses who Rom 9:15 Paul continues his point that God is not unjust in remembering His promises inspite of Israel's unfaithfulness
I will have mercy… compassion what Rom 9:15 God does not need to offer an explination when He chooses to offer mercy and compassion in light of our failures
it does not depend what Rom 9:16 the "it" Paul refers here is the adoption (v4) and election (v11) of the Jewish people when they didn't earn it, and though
they are disobedient can also not loose the future reception of God's promises
human desire or effort what Rom 9:16 this verse is NOT talking about salvation in Christ, but election of the Jews by God inspite of their actions. Because their
adoption was not due to their own actions, it is due to God's mercy.
Scripture says what Rom 9:17 Paul quotes here from Exodus 9:16
Pharoah who Rom 9:17 notice Pharaoh is the one who was "raised up", he was chosen by God for one purpose, that God's might would be displayed
and His name (the name of God Almighty) would be proclaimed in all the earth. Nowhere is Paul speaking of Pharoah being
elected for hell. Rather, though Pharoah, God's election of the Jews would be displayed. This is confirmed first when Rahab
sheltered the spies in Joshua 2:8-13
Therefore what Rom 9:17 Paul now uses the story of Pharoah and the Exodus to make a point of God's sovereignty over creation
God has mercy and hardens what Rom 9:18 Paul is speaking of God's action during the Exodus story, illustrating that God is just in having mercy on Israel and hardening
Pharoah's heart in order that the power of name of God might be displayed. No where does this verse say God saves some
and damns others. It is a reference to a historical event for Israel.
Why does God blame us what Rom 9:19 with the removed assumption that Paul is speaking about Christian salvation, this question must be reviewed. What would
Paul's contemporary audience be "blamed for" in his rhetorical discussion? The denial and rejection of the Savior. The Jews
of Paul's day are asking why would God "blame" them for rejecting Jesus if no one can deny His will. The Jews rejection of
Jesus is what allowed the Gentile salvation to occur, again like Pharaoh of old, God's name and power are magnified
who are you a human being what Rom 9:20 this point is just as valid today as it was the day Paul wrote it, who are we the creation to question the will and ways of He
who made us? We are the tool, He is the craftsman who fashioned us
why did you make me like this what Rom 9:20 this question is also telling because it comes from the persective of the made questioning the very shape given it by the maker
who is able to know better the reasons for a certain tool or item being cast in the shape it was? Obviously, the maker
potter have the right what Rom 9:21 who has the "right" over creation? Not us, yet so often we as humans ask the question, "why was I made this way?" in
disappointment of the way we are rather than asking it as the genuine seeking of our shape to define our purpose.
special / common purposes what Rom 9:21 one thing we (the made) often neglect to remember is that we may not all be made for the same purpose. It the is Lord who
decides our created purpose. We do not deserve the right to be jealous or prideful of our "shape" in comparison to another
what if God… what Rom 9:22-29 Paul summarizes his argument here by asking a set of rhetorical questions establishing several key points:
1. God has chosen to pour out His wrath on sinful creation that stands ready for destruction
2. God has also elected to wait and not pour out His divine wrath yet, exercising His own divine patience
3. God will offer the "riches of His glory" to all those who are a part of His coming Kingdom
4. God is working in His people preparing them in advance of when His divine wrath will be poured out
5. God will call BOTH Jew and Gentile His own, not just the Jews as previously thought
6. No matter how much Israel disobeys Him, a faithful remnant will remain until the day God's wrath is released
what shall we say then what Rom 9:30-32 Paul now his the confilict direclty, the Gentile and Jewish views of faith and righteousness were opposed to one another
the Gentiles came in by faith while the Jews felt they still needed to work to earn their status with God
The one who believes what Rom 9:33 as a final point to the more Calvinist leaning readers of this chapter, Paul ends the chapter by illustrating that salvation
will be given to all those who believe, as in John's Gospel in John 20:31