We are going to conclude our Encountering Jesus series this morning now if you haven't been here for all of encountering Jesus, that's fine What we've been doing is looking at Face to face encounters or personal encounters that Jesus had with people on earth During his earthly ministry now Dustin today That's going to change our final encounter with Jesus is actually going to be after the resurrection So do me a favor real quick. I know pastor Jack introduced you to your connection card. Do me a favor look down Please make sure that your name is on the front of it Because when we get back to the end of the sermon You're gonna have an opportunity to participate and you will believe that we still get connection cards with the backs Filled out on something that the fronts aren't so do me a favor Just make sure the front of your connection card is filled out and the back of your bulletin looks a little bit like this I'm gonna ask you to follow along with me this morning as we go through this morning's message You know what Janet even if you want to leave the bulletin here when you're done I'm okay with that, but do me a favor fill in the blanks because Scientifically, you will learn more when we combine auditory tactile and visual learning. So this morning we're gonna conclude Encountering Jesus now all throughout the series Melvin We have been looking at a key thought or a key idea that has traveled us through this series and here's the key thought this morning Nothing is more life-changing than a personal encounter with the Savior Fred there is nothing more life-changing than a personal encounter with the Savior now in all of the instances We have looked at up and to this point We have been talking about a person who I'm gonna drop that really quick We've been talking about someone who encountered Jesus in physical form Melvin while he was on earth doing ministry this morning That's gonna change if you want to look in your Bibles with me whether they be physical or digital We're gonna go to the book of Acts It is the fifth book in the New Testament Matthew Mark Luke John Acts and we're gonna look in chapter 9. So acts chapter 9 in a moment I'm gonna read to you from Acts chapter 9 verses 1 through 19. This is the story of a man named Saul He is a very popular man. He is a very familiar man You probably have heard of him by another name, but we'll get there in a moment right here in Acts chapter 9 We are looking at the story of a man named Saul of Tarsus. So here let me read to you This is Acts chapter 9 verses 1 through 19 and I have it for you here on the screen in the New Living translation So here's what it says meanwhile Saul was uttering threats with every breath and was eager to kill the Lord's followers So he went to the high priest He requested letters addressed to the synagogues in Damascus asking for their cooperation in the arrest of any of the followers of the way now that is an early term for Following Jesus so followers of the way that he found there He wanted to bring them both men and women back to Jerusalem in chains as he was approaching Damascus on this mission a light from heaven suddenly shone down around him He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him Saul Saul. Why are you persecuting me? Who are you Lord Saul asked and the voice replied? I am Jesus the one you are persecuting now get up and go into the city and you will be told what you must do The men with Saul stood speechless for they heard the sound of someone's voice but saw no one Saw picked Saul picked himself up off the ground, but when he opened his eyes He was blind so his companions led him by the hand to Damascus He remained there blind for three days and did not eat or drink Now there was a believer in Damascus named Ananias The Lord spoke to him in a vision calling Ananias Yes, Lord He replied then the Lord said go over to straight Street to the house of Judas When you get there ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul he is praying to me right now I have shown him in a vision of a man named Ananias coming and laying hands on him so he can see again But Lord exclaimed Ananias I have heard many people talk about the terrible things This man has done to the believers in Jerusalem and he is authorized by the leading priests to arrest everyone who calls upon your name But the Lord said go For Saul is my chosen instrument to take my message to the Gentiles and to kings as well as to the people of Israel And I will show him how much he must suffer for my name's sake So Ananias went and found Saul he laid his hands on him and said brother Saul The Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road has sent me so that you might regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit Instantly something like scales fell from Saul's eyes, and he regained his sight then he got up and was baptized Afterward he ate some food and regained his strength Now what I want to do is sort of break this down and get a picture of what really happened This is called the Damascus Road experience for those of you who aren't familiar This man named Saul is about to change names after this story. We'll get into that at the end So let me give you your first blank and then we're gonna go ahead and get into this So here's your first blank this morning he was zealous for his cause He was zealous For his cause And let's go back and look at the first two verses here just verses one and two of chapter 9 meanwhile Saul was uttering threats with every breath and Was eager to kill the Lord's followers stop right there for a second Winifred this tells us a lot about the character of Saul of Tarsus not only Was he vocal about his opposition because you have to understand Doug when our faith first came into existence Those very first believers believed in Jesus. We were not a religion We were not even a group that had any sort of sway or political power Lynette We were no more than a crazy kooky offshoot sect of the Jewish religion. We were a small group of people Dan from within the Jewish religion That broke off and started doing their own crazy things Talking about some guy who was raised from the dead that they normally eat his body and drink his blood And they call each other brother and sister We actually have historical attestation in the early Roman writings that Nelson we were considered to be incestuous cannibals Think about it Fred to an outside person you get together with your brothers and sisters at church and eat Somebody's body and drink somebody's blood Then I got to be honest Janet. I don't know if that's a church service. I'm gonna be attending anytime soon But that's the reputation we had at the very beginning of our faith So Saul is doing no more than standing up Selena for the faith that he believes in He's a Jew and he sees this new offshoot of Christianity as Heresy now if you're not familiar with the word heresy just think about wrong teaching when it comes to religion And that's a great way to look at heresy Heresy is something that is directly opposed to true teaching or false teaching and we're gonna talk a lot about heresy in our upcoming Series next week. So Saul is not really a Sidelines kind of guy. He's not just sitting back and watching all of this happen Dustin He's in it and he's in it zealously. He's very passionate and he see here He went to the high priest now that's at the temple He went to the high priest and requested letters addressed to the synagogues in Damascus Asking for cooperation in the arrest of any followers of the way which is originally Glenda what our faith was called That he found there. So now Ray not only is this man outspoken verbally Against our faith but Julie now he's taking it a step further and he has concocted a plan By which he's gonna use other church people in Damascus to find Christians jail them and hopefully kill them in Philippians chapter 3 verse 6 Paul said this I was so zealous that I harshly Persecuted the church now that's our church hall admits in Philippians I was so zealous for God that I harshly Persecuted the church now you need to understand that his persecution does not come from a place of anger as much as it does A place of righteousness Terry. He truly believes we are wrong he truly believes Christians are Ruining or tainting the historical Jewish faith and we have to be eliminated So this is zeal not hate. There is a difference. There is a big difference This is zeal so he gets these letters and then he travels and his intention look at the last line here He wanted to bring them both men and women back to Jerusalem in chains Now what is not up for debate here Cindy is how passionate Saul is but here's my question to you Does this amount of passion? justify action This passion justify action Diane just because I feel Passionate about something does that mean that my actions are automatically justified because of my passion She's shaking her head. No Diane. I totally agree with you He's incredibly zealous and Also incredibly wrong and as we'll see as this story plays out God chose him as an instrument and illustrated how wrong he is but for us today what we need to realize is Angelina sometimes we may be very passionate about things that are equally as wrong and We have to be willing to step back put that zeal on hold for a second and Judy go am I passionate about The right things am I passionate about Good things wholesome things things that are drawing me closer to God or am I passionate about things as Saul is about to find Out that puts us in enmity with God Paul's well-intended Passion for God had led him to the point where he was actually working against God We must stop from time to time and evaluate whether our passions and interests are Drawing us to God or actually pitting us against him. Here's your second blank this morning He chose To obey here's a part of the Saul story that I find incredibly interesting. He chose to obey Let's take a look at verses 3 through 6 of chapter 9 So Paul is on the road he has the letters He's ready to put people in jail as he was approaching Damascus on a mission a light from heaven shone down around him He fell to the ground stop Stop right there put yourself Amanda put yourself. You're walking down a dusty dirt road Somewhere in the Middle East with a couple friends you and Melissa and you guys are chilling and all of a sudden boom This gigantic light comes down from heaven and literally shines around you like a spotlight Not a UFO. Let me say that up front. Okay, we're not gonna all of a sudden go X files with what we're talking about here But now Amanda think about this if you're Saul You're a Pharisee. You are very well trained in the Old Testament studies Let's think about how God spoke to his people throughout the Old Testament Let's think about the Exodus story when God is leading the children of Israel in the wilderness What did he use a pillar? It was a pillar of smoke during the day a pillar of fire at night Think about Mount Sinai when God's presence was on the top of Mount Sinai There was this cloud that filled and when Moses came down off Mount Sinai His face glowed with the glory of God fast forward to Elijah on the top of Mount Carmel light from heaven to Saul Signifies the one true God Dan It was as if God was penning a signature to what he was about to say by saying I am the Lord your God Look, I showed myself to you this way here this way here this way here Think about the angel Gabriel when he declared the birth of Jesus and what the glory of the Lord shone around The shepherds and they were afraid so this is almost a signature for Saul. He understands Being a Jew he would have understood the Old Testament Dustin we're very clear now if you're traveling with Amanda Melissa on this Damascus road, this is not some random UFO experience This is not a power outage and one streetlight happens to still be working This is the work of Almighty God and that is why you can see he fell to the ground. What is that? That's worship. He's showing God's submission just like you would in the presence of a king back in the day Everybody ever seen Robin Hood where everybody gets on one knee when you know, the lion heart walks by it's a show of submission We see by his actions. He's clear about who's speaking to him and he heard a voice Saul Saul Why are you persecuting me? Who are you Lord? Now Lynette, I thought it was interesting that he chose the word Lord and I wanted to know exactly what did he mean? So I looked it up the word Lord that is used here. It's not the Hebrew word Jehovah, which I find very interesting He could have used that who are you God my God You could have used any of the names for God that he had in the Old Testament Dan This word Lord here in the Greek literally is To show ownership of like a slave refers to his master Lord master one who is in charge of me is the connotation here in this word Lord So just like we see in Paul's writings later He calls himself a slave to the gospel or a bond servant of Christ in this word Lord Saul is is admitting Dustin whoever is speaking to me. I'm submitted to you Who are you Lord master one who is in charge of my affairs one who is makes decisions for me Who is even in charge of my own body? That's what's really in the connotation of that word Lord So he says Saul Saul. Why are you persecuting? Who are you Lord like I'm doing a lot of persecuting right now. Which one which one were you? I'm sorry I didn't catch it. Who are you Lord and the voice replied I am Jesus That's simple three simple words Dan I am Jesus and in this moment Saul's entire life is about to change Now and I love the fact he didn't wait He said I am Jesus the one you are persecuting now get up because he's still he's still on the ground at this point Now get up and go into the city and you will be told what you must do Now keeping in mind that when Saul got on the Damascus Road He was on a mission to imprison all followers of Jesus This is pretty much one of those gigantic 180 signs there's no way Saul can continue doing the mission he set out to do and Follow God at the same time Terry that comes to make sense, right? You cannot be a follower of Jesus and arresting followers of Jesus at the same time So God writes his signature down Nelson. He reveals himself He says I am Jesus and he says now do me a favor now get up and go into the city And wait and you will be told what you must do What I think is awesome is the Lord chose a method of communication Nelson that was personal to Paul He would have gotten it and we see that by his actions the word Lord that he uses his prostrate and it's on the ground We clearly see he understands that the Lord God is speaking to him But look at the end of here Now get up go into the city and you'll be told what you must do the Lord also left Saul with a decision point Judy Saul still could have done what he wanted to do at this point We saw hasn't stood up and found out he's blind yet. So now you got to kind of look at it at this moment Saul has a choice he can either choose to obey the will of God and Follow Eric what God is telling her to do or he can choose to continue doing what he set out to do and Jack I'll have to be honest. I think a lot of us are faced with that same decision today God can come to you in a dream or an envision and speak to you through his word or speak to you in prayer And say Jack I want you to do xyz fill in the blank ABC and Then Jack your face with a choice Am I going to follow God's will for my life or Ray? Am I just merely going to follow my own will for my life? To truly have an encounter with the Savior. We have to put God's will above our own will He does that let's watch what happens next. Here's your next blank He had to realize he was blind Let's look at verses Seven eight and nine of our text this morning Then the men with Saul stood speechless for they heard the sound of someone's voice, but saw no one So I'll pick himself up off the ground but when he opened his eyes he was blind now this blindness is physical blindness Julie he cannot see But I think his physical blindness is almost a illustration of his spiritual blindness Saul is a grown man at this point that means he lived during the time of Jesus's ministry Albeit some of it He was a Pharisee he clearly must have heard the rumblings about Jesus We even see in the beginning of the book of Acts Saul was there holding the coats of the men who stoned Stephen to death So it wasn't the fact that he didn't have the opportunity to hear about the ministry of Jesus He may have even heard Jesus face to face But the reality is in spite of all of that Saul remained blind to the teaching that Jesus brought So I find it really interesting on this Damascus Road experience that he stands up and is physically blind or Dustin to put it another way he is now physically incapable of Accomplishing the mission that he set out to do Because what was his mission to find to look and see and capture that's going to be a whole lot harder When you can't see with your own physical senses I think it's interesting that God took away something very very physical with Paul and in doing so kind of rerouted all of his focus Because it's for the rest of the story. He's in that house. He's praying. He didn't eat. He didn't What he fasted basically when God's talking to ananias. He said and he was praying so Saul stops his His jailing murderous agenda Sean and all of a sudden the focus is all of his attention on praying And he was there blind for three days and did not eat or drink So he does a full fast and is praying for three days terry. I gotta say I think that this illustrates for us today You can be blind without really being blind You know what I mean? You can completely miss what God is trying to do in your life And yet still see all the physical stuff going on around you There has to be a deeper sight when talking about the mission of the mission of the mission of the mission of the mission About the things of God there has to be a spiritual nature to the way we live our life Not just responding and reacting to the physical things that we see Our life as spiritual believers must be more than the physicality that we live in And here God's illustrating that for Saul now God did remove Saul's physical sight But I think it's a great illustration of the spiritual blindness that he was already in I also want to make a point here and say that not every trial is a punishment And that is he's blind for three days now, of course We already read the rest of the story Janet. We know that God is already preparing ananias to come and pray for Saul Sometimes we go through trials. You know what? Sometimes God takes something away. Maybe it's a job Maybe it's I've been through now two Tablets because mine keep getting broken one got broken by FedEx. The other got broken by my kids God seems to keep taking things at times and sometimes let's be honest God takes so he can redirect our attention Sometimes God doesn't take just as punishment God's not going to go you know what frank has had it too easy for the last couple of years I'm going to smite frank here and God begins to take not every trial is a punishment Every trial is a punishment and the reason I know that if you go to the book of James in chapter one verse two Says this counted all joy when you experience various trials. Well diana gotta be honest sometimes experiencing a trial is not joyous But as we see here in Saul's case and in other cases throughout the biblical record God uses circumstances to refocus people on where he wants them to go So to truly have a personal encounter with the savior we must look and see what areas of our life we have been blind To God's truth Here's your next blank this morning Even after all of that Saul had a reputation to overcome Saul had a reputation to overcome and and this was not a very good reputation nelson Unlike yours, you're the man everywhere Everywhere I go i'm like, you know that nelson carmona. He's just so filling the blank. Saul had a reputation to overcome. Take a look at this Acts chapter 9 verses 10 through 14 now there was a believer in damascus So ray if you follow along geographically Saul was traveling to damascus got interrupted on the road into town And then was led into town the rest of the way by his friends because he's blind there's a believer in damascus So gary quick math. This is one of the guys that saul was coming to arrest Because saul was coming to damascus with those letters doug ananias would have been one of those believers That saul was on the way to arrest and possibly kill And yet here we see now there was a believer in damascus named ananias The lord spoke to him in a vision calling ananias Yes lord Go over. This is so exact. Look at this go over to straight street To the house of judas and when you get there ask for a man from tarsus named saul The new international bill version if we were here today amanda, do me a favor Go over to main street House two five four and in it ask for a guy named dustin That's how exact these instructions are there's no playing around there's no mistaking this eric This is incredibly clear in my opinion It's one of the most it's one of the most clear instructions that god has given in almost all of the bible Go to straight street now. You're on one street go to the house of now. You're in a specific house and ask for a guy We see the same thing happen a couple chapters when when god sends Peter to the house of cornelius same exacting nature Exacting nature And he is praying right now. So eric not only street not only the house not only the guy But what the guy is actually doing at the moment god gives these instructions. He is praying to me right now I have shown him in a vision of a man named ananias coming in and laying hands on him But lord, I love that How many how many times do we do that dan? You know what i'm saying dan give god gives us these totally clear Detailed instructions terry go here. Look at this building ask for this guy. He's doing this I've laid this all up for you and we go But lord Like I just think that that's so human of us dustin It's so human for us to even in the face of all of god's exacting plans Still have a little bit of our humanity get in the way look at what ananias says here but lord I've heard Many people talk about the terrible things this man has done to the believers in jerusalem And he is authorized by the leading priests to arrest everyone who calls upon your name, which means somehow lena Ananias already knows That saul is on the way And he already knows about the letters that saul asked for at the beginning of our reading this morning So somehow word kind of through the grapevine word traveled all the way to damascus That saul's on his way. He's got letters from the chief priest dan. He is going to throw us in jail And in spite of all of that God gives these very clear instructions And I think the reality is We all come from somewhere We all have a backstory right fred every one of us comes to christ Every one of us comes to church and we all have our own backstory. We all have our own unique flares from our past Some of them are Are are acceptable to share in church and I know some of you they are not acceptable to share in church Okay So let's just be honest. We all have a reputation And you know what's really rough or at least it was for me When somebody first comes to christ, it's so exciting. It's a very exciting time in their life But it seems like the people who are closest to you your friends your family members They remember the old you you know what I mean? You have that reputation that you've got to overcome And they're like, oh you're a churchgoer now. Yeah, so you're perfect. You're you're gonna do this You're gonna do that and doug it's almost like our reputation Becomes a stumbling block it gets in our way much like it's doing here for saul And I think the problem is Well, let me try to explain the problem this way The bible is very clear that when when someone comes to christ their old nature is gone and their new nature is here Right. We call that the new nature. The bible is really clear. The problem is Until you give the new nature a little time for people to notice. There's a new nature. They're still assuming the old nature And there's another problem. Listen, if the new nature is no different than the old nature, then jesus carries no value If me plus jesus is no different than me without jesus, then it's simple math people jesus equals zero If me plus jesus is no different than me without jesus, then I have made jesus value nothing in my own life judy sometimes Our reputation does get in our way But the more you begin to live out your faith the more that reputation that was once a stumbling block becomes a gigantic testimony The person I used to be he's not the person I am today And that's because of him The problem is the very first day you become that new person The old person was in yesterday's news The more time that goes by that gets you away from the person of yesterday and more into the new person you are Things like this don't happen as much If you read through the book of acts you will notice that this reputation did not go away overnight for the next couple of chapters Paul has or excuse me. I just gave it away By the way, if in case you didn't know the guy that just is going through all this is about to become the apostle paul That's my next point. So your next blank Since I since I only just steamrolled right into it Thank you I'll just call that the that that's the trip and fall right into it fell into the end zone Here's your last blank this morning God had a plan for his life God had a plan And angelina's we're about to see all of this Is happening. Let's look at the last four verses here verses 15 through 19 But the lord said and he's still speaking to ananias right here. The lord said go So Saul is my chosen instrument to take my message to the gentiles and to kings As well as to the people of israel and I will show him how much he must suffer for my name's sake So ananias went he found saul laid his hands on him brother saul the lord jesus who appeared to you on the road How did ananias know that? He was definitely not on the road with saul. The only way is that god told him. It's an additional confirmation That ananias is sent by god god tells saul. Hey, by the way, there's this guy named ananias He's coming to pray for you. He's going to heal you god tells ananias Hey, by the way, there's this guy named saul. You need to go pray and heal him And now when it happens, we have confirmation from both sides Jesus who appeared to you on the road has sent you so that you might regain your sight and be filled with the holy spirit And instantly something like scales fell from saul's eyes. He regained his sight then he got up and was baptized Huge part right here underline it highlight it if you're on digital bible long press and hold Underline and was baptized Why is that important nelson? What is baptism a symbol of? Of faith in in jesus In that's right Saul starts out three days ago Ready to jail and execute Followers of jesus and that and was baptized Sows it up for me fred He is now accepted jesus's savior and was baptized So three days ago He was ready to jail anyone who was a member of the way and now after this experience He is a follower of christ. He's baptized afterwards. He ate some food and regained regained his strength So what was the plan that god had for saul's life? Well, I sort of let the cat out of the bag saul becomes the The apostle paul paul became the most prolific church planter in the early church Paul wrote 13 possibly 14 books of the current new testament that you're holding Paul's writing accounts for 19.6 Or almost one fifth of the bible today And paul's story reminds us that no matter who you are god has a plan that he can use you Saul's encounter with jesus was so powerful and so impacting that it not only Changed his name from saul to paul, but he became Quite arguably one of the most influential people in the early church saved jesus himself He wrote one fifth of the bible that you currently have in your hands And yet three days before this event he was ready to throw all of us in jail When god touches a life There is no turning back. There's no need to turn back think about all the people we've looked at through this series We looked at the woman who was bleeding we looked at blind bardamaeus When god steps in and doesn't work in your life dan there is no reason to go back And if there is anybody Who had a reason to doubt it would have to be saul Saul was in the market of killing christians and yet lanette all of a sudden he becomes A christian to my opinion the the story of saul is one of the best arguments For belief in jesus as the messiah in the early church Angelina it's totally easy to believe that people who followed jesus in life would still choose to believe in a resurrected saviour That's kind of easy, but melissa explained to me how someone who used to kill people who believed in jesus Would then choose to follow jesus and write scripture and plant churches What what on earth could cause that gigantic change in character? In my opinion the power of god is the only explanation and it's one of the best examples from the early church we have Of believing in the power of jesus and as the messiah Throughout this series we've looked at Six different individuals who had a personal encounter with jesus Each week I've asked you what about you What is your story your encounter with jesus like? If you're like me well, I grew up hearing a lot about jesus because I grew up in church But just because I grew up in church does not mean that I grew up Having an encounter with jesus can I say that out loud like am I going to get tarred and feathered for that diane? Just because you grow up in church doesn't mean you know jesus it just means you know church. Let's be honest We have in our country. We have made church into its own animal Some would argue we've made church into its own religion, but it won't go there today Not afraid to go there. I'm not afraid to go there I'm not afraid to go there mind you but we just don't have the time. That's a whole nother sermon And everybody wants to have lunch because it's mother's day So do me a favor take out your connection card And forgive me didn't get the next steps updated on the back of the card Ruh-roh minor mistake so i've got my next your next steps are here in your bulletin Every week here at c3 I challenge you to take a next step because it is important that you grow in your faith monday through saturday Not just on sundays. So here's your first next step this week I will evaluate where I have been blind in my faith Maybe as you're sitting here this morning you're realizing wow there's an area of my life where I have been blind to god I've been doing my own thing going my own way and I've been doing my own thing I have been blind to god I've been doing my own thing going my own way And yeah god is great on sundays and god is cool in the bible and god is great on the tuesday bible study But there's this other area of my life over here that I have held on my own and not allowed god to influence Then yes, you have been blind in that area to god's teaching Number two this week. I will choose to obey god in a new area of my life This one's sort of open because I don't know where your faith is at today I don't know what god wants to do shawn in your life exactly But I do know this the next step you will take in your faith will require an act of obedience No matter who you are where you are That's a very true statement the next step that you will take in your faith will require an act of obedience in whatever area God is touching your life in next And then finally this week I will share my personal encounter with you My personal encounter with jesus with somebody else Dustin you have your story dan you have yours terry you have yours fred you have yours We all have a story of what god has done in our life. The question is are you keeping it to yourself? Or can you use your story? To transform the life Of somebody else because it's one thing to read about a bunch of people who live thousands of years ago in the bible Terry it's something completely different To hear about what god is doing today In the life of my friend in my city in my town in my state in my country There's something very motivating about knowing that god is still moving in our midst today You can also see there On your connection card underneath of my next step today is it says send me info about If you've never had a personal encounter with jesus a time where you and he alone And you said you know what wow You are really real god. I need your forgiveness. I cannot do this on my own If you've not had that kind of experience and you're interested in you would like to do me a favor under send me info about Fill in the bubble that says beginning life with jesus It does not mean that i'm going to pull you up here in front of the church or embarrass you It just means that you're giving me permission to follow up with you Maybe take you out for coffee get some ice cream have a conversation About what it means to live a daily life in a relationship with god Underneath of that rededicating my life. That's very similar Maybe we made a decision for faith or for god at some point earlier in our life But things happen work job economy marriage kids divorce Relocation all these things happen and all of a sudden you wake up one day and you're not nearly as close to god as you once were That's okay. We all go through those seasons The question is what are you doing to get back there? That's what rededicating my life is about And then how to grow spiritually we have an awesome discipleship plan here at c3 Eric 20 minutes of your life and I can give you a personalized prescription for how you can grow spiritually 20 minutes That's all i'm asking meet me for coffee I'll even pay for the coffee for us to sit down in 20 minutes Help you go through a couple simple steps and be able to have a plan to grow spiritually On the right hand side of your connection card events opportunities young adult ladies 522 going to see pitch perfect married couples. Mr. And missage. Mr. And mrs club. We're going shooting Um, I actually got a really awesome invitation this week Someone who is related to someone in our church has a decent amount of property out in north fort meyers And they have invited us to come shooting out there because we don't have to pay anything To go out on his land and he's got everything set up barbecue grill. We can burn burgers and dogs for lunch I mean, it's gonna be a really cool saturday. So do me a favor if you are interested. This is what I need because Not all of us for instance, not all of us are weapons owners. I do not own a firearm So this is what I want to ask If you are going to attend the mr and mrs event and you are bringing your personal firearm And you are willing to allow someone else To fire it I need to know the type of ammunition that your weapon takes So that those of us like me, I don't own a weapon I'll go buy a box of shells for someone else's weapon if fred's going to allow me to shoot his pistol Then I need to buy a box of ammo Um, I will check with stacy, but I believe it's pistols and shotguns Like I believe he's got he's got a clay doug. Have you been shooting with stacy at his place? Does he have clays out there or is it just pistols? He's got shotguns, so I believe we're doing pistols and shotguns But I don't know if he has a setup for actual rifles So at this point I'll say pistols and shotguns if you are interested in bringing your weapon Then I need to know what type of ammunition your weapon takes So do me a favor on your connection card on the front side where it says comments If you are willing to bring your weapon and allow someone else to fire it This is something you probably never heard in church before I need to know the kind of ammunition for your gun I need to know the type of ammunition that your weapon takes So that those of us who do not have weapons can buy a box of ammunition and we can kind of make things fair Yeah, if anybody if anybody has a 50 cal leave that joker at home i'm not buying 50 caliber bullets Okay, you can keep your desert eagle to yourself. Thank you so much You can keep your desert eagle to yourself, thank you so much And then also the identify class The identify class is coming up if you're a member of c3 and you do not know what your top three spiritual gifts are Please come to the identify class We have a great self-assessment test that will help you know what your spiritual gifts are. Why is that important sam? Two things number one if you know your spiritual gifts You can know more about how god has made you number two You can put a fine tooth comb on how to grow and how to plug into a church our church another church You know because you're diane your spiritual gifts aren't going to change just because you go to a different church Your spiritual gifts are the way god made you and that's always going to be that way So do me a favor take a look at a couple of those things church. I love you very much Happy mother's day to all of you moms. Thank you for being moms Pastor jack your turn