Good morning. Welcome to Christ Community Church. My name is Bill and I am the lead pastor Which means among other things in a moment. I'm gonna get to speak to you from the Word of God I want to welcome you if you're here your first or second time I know pastor Jack introduced you to our connection card Do me a favor grab it really quick look and make sure your name is on the front of it You would be amazed we say it every single week and I always seem to get a connection card That's got something on the back that didn't have something on the front But hold on to it because as we proceed through the message this morning when we get to the end of it You're gonna use the back part of your connection card to participate in this morning service. I try not to Make church too long, but I want you Tim to be able to be a part of what's going on So do me a favor make sure your name is on the front of your connection card Stick it in the front of your Bible or underneath your knee or wherever would be convenient for you to find it and then look At the back of your bulletin. It's gonna look a lot like this. It's got some blanks on it. Good morning, Lynette Hi, we'd like to ask you not just Lynette but everybody to follow along with me this morning as we go through our message There's gonna be several blanks here on the back of the bulletin Nelson dial back my volume just to hear feel like I'm I'm yelling at everybody and I'm not even yelling yet We got a couple blanks. I want you to follow along. We are in the middle of a series entitled encountering Jesus And what we've been doing over the last couple of weeks is Dustin we have been Looking at different times where the Savior during his earthly ministry had conversations and ministry encounters with other human beings on earth So Tim this is very much a topical series in the sense that our topic is Jesus But it's also a very personal one because we're examining personal interactions that the Savior had with different individuals You can see on the back of your bulletin this week. We're gonna be talking about Nicodemus now in every message during this series We have a key thought so here's the key thought that I want you to be thinking about this morning There is nothing more life-changing Than a personal encounter with the Savior Jackie there is nothing more life-changing Than getting your butt kicked by your youth pastors wife at poker Just saying Jackie, please stand please. Yes, stand up stand up stand up or I drag you up here. Those are your choices Everybody give a round to the c3 young adults poker champion For those of you who are new we our young adults ministry had a poker game pizza and poker game last night and Jackie came out victorious. It was me and Jackie at the final table and she beat me in short order So I will enjoy a rematch but I'll hail the conquering hero for yesterday. Well, we'll get you again No this morning. We're talking about this key thought. There's nothing more life Life-changing than a personal encounter with the Savior now if you have your Bibles with you this morning whether they're physical or digital That's totally fine. Several you have that beautiful lovely glow on the bottom part of your face. I know you're looking at a shining screen That's fine. Do me a favor and turn with me to the gospel of John Specifically chapter 3 so that's Matthew Mark Luke John fourth book in the New Testament And we're gonna go to chapter 3 and here at the beginning of chapter 3 we find the story of Nicodemus he's kind of a smaller character in the scale of everything that happened in the Gospels, but he's a really interesting one So we're gonna take a look at John chapter 3 verses 1 through 15 And then we'll bounce around a little more in John a little later But we're gonna start with this is the breadth of our story here John chapter 3 Verses 1 through 15 and I have it for you on the screen in the New Living translation So here's John chapter 3 verses 1 through 15 in the New Living There was a man named Nicodemus a Jewish religious leader who was a Pharisee One dark evening. He came to speak with Jesus and said rabbi He said we all know God has sent you to teach us your miraculous signs are evidence that God is with you Jesus replied I tell you the truth unless you are born again. You cannot see the kingdom of God What do you mean Nicodemus exclaimed or exclaimed Nicodemus I'm also dyslexic How can an old man go back into his mother's womb and be born again? Jesus replied I assure you No one can enter the kingdom of God without being born of water and the spirit Humans can reproduce only human life, but the Holy Spirit gives birth to Spiritual life, so don't be surprised when I say you must be born again The wind blows wherever it wants just as you can hear the wind but can't tell where it comes from or where it is going So you can't explain how people are born of the spirit How are these things possible Nicodemus asked Jesus replied you are respected Jewish teacher and yet you don't understand these things I Assure you we tell you what we know and have seen and yet you won't believe our testimony But if you don't believe me when I tell you about earthly things How can you possibly believe if I tell you about heavenly things? No one has ever gone to heaven and returned But the Son of Man has come down from heaven But as Moses lifted up the bronze snake on a pole in the wilderness So the Son of Man must be lifted up so that everyone who believes in him will have eternal life Now this is where we're starting this morning on our story with Nicodemus So Angelina, here's your first blank and then we're gonna go back and sort of tear that section apart Here's your first blank Nicodemus. He was a man who knew about God He was a man who knew about God He was a man who knew about God Let's go back to the very first two verses of that chapter There was a man named Nicodemus a Jewish religious leader who was a Pharisee now Obviously Nicodemus is a Jewish religious leader Dustin It goes without saying he has a serious amount of religious training Not only is he a religious leader, but he's a Pharisee that tells me he's in the minority in the Sanhedrin The Pharisees were very legalistic. They were very from proper. They loved their laws. They loved following their laws They self-righteously loved the law. This man's got a really good amount of training in the scriptures Specifically the Old Testament scriptures because at the point at which this conversation is happening the New Testament has been written yet But here's the problem with that For all of that training for all of those years of rabbinical school Terry He's staring the Son of God in the face and doesn't know who he's talking to He's staring the Son of God the Savior the Passover lamb I guarantee you he knew about the story of Passover as a Jew they celebrated every year and yet the Passover lamb is physically in front of him and He's completely missing it there is a difference Dan between knowing about God and knowing God Even today there is a difference between how much someone can tell me about God how much they can quote scripture How many church doctrine statements they can memorize? How many different theology books they can take in and how many different 13 letter words they can use while talking to their friends at church? And when it all comes down to it, there is a difference between knowing about God and Knowing him when he's right in your face, and that's where we find Nicodemus this morning Angelina This man knew about God. He was a Pharisee. He knew the law He knew exactly what to expect and yet for all of that knowledge He missed the blatant truth in front of him He missed the fact that he truly was the Son of God now I don't want to diss Nicodemus too much because look at this next section here After one dark evening he came to speak with Jesus and he said Rabbi Now my Tuesday nighters, you know this what does the word rabbi mean in English? teacher Colloquially would be my great one So it would mean my teacher my great one Lynette I want to be taught by you my teacher my great one So by Nicodemus using this word Julie we get a very clear picture that he is willing to Put Jesus as a place above him, but he didn't use any of the Jewish words He could have used like Jehovah God son of David He didn't use any messianic terms what he used was a human based term that shows a little bit of submission to Jesus So Tim let's not go too far down the Nicodemus is an idiot rabbit hole because he's not he is coming to Jesus now I find it interesting that in almost every translation that exists this first meeting happens at night and In Tuesday we had a two in our Tuesday night Bible study We're going through the gospel of John verse by verse is super fun And we were in chapter 3 not too long ago and had a wonderful conversation About what does night really mean light and dark? They're very important in the gospel of John and night can refer to obviously the time of day But symbolically Lynette he's in in a more ignorant stage of who Jesus is than an enlightened stage His concept of the Savior is darker than it is light and let our conversation this morning begins At a time of day that is darker than it is light now. He's also a Pharisee He's a Jewish leader and they don't like Jesus do they? So he's got to find a time to get away from all his phariseeical buddies and get to Jesus Pretty much when nobody else is looking Because he still has to go home to his fair because fair cynical little tribe and be like And we'll look at how the story of faith in Nicodemus his life progresses over time But look at what he says about Jesus here. He says rabbi teacher my great one We all know that God has sent you stop Do you think that's Sean is that something you thought you would ever hear a Pharisee say? Especially in John chapter 3 we're at the beginning of the story. We haven't even made it to all the fun stuff in John yet We're in chapter 3 We know that God has sent you so Glenna Let's build on the point we just looked at there's a difference between knowing about God and knowing God Kathy There is a difference between even knowing that God has sent Jesus and knowing Jesus personally one of the most frightening passages in all of the Bible to me is a Statement made in Matthew chapter 7 verse 23 and in that day people will say we did this in your name We did that in your name and Jesus is gonna say depart from me. I never Knew you Knew I never had knowledge of you Terry. We never knew each other even in our modern colloquialism I can know of someone and I can know someone There's a difference, right? I can know of Someone and I can have relationship with them as we start the story of Nicodemus this morning. I have to caution you consider the balance of do you know of Jesus or do you know him and If your definition of I know of Jesus is how many Bible verses you can quote Be very weary that might be knowing of not knowing him So let's take a look at your second blank this morning He challenged his own understanding He challenged his own understanding Let's look at our next couple of verses here verses 3 and 4 Jesus Jesus is now replying to Nicodemus his question and Jesus replied I tell you the truth or the old school would say verily verily I say unto thee Jesus is saying what I'm about to tell you be true new international bill version. I tell you the truth Unless you are born again You cannot see the kingdom of God now Judy this poses a big question for Nicodemus Nick Demas is a Jew. He is a Hebrew. I am God's chosen people We were his kingdom in the Old Testament Why are you now telling me I have to do anything to see the kingdom? Like I am the kingdom of God player. Where you at? This is Nicodemus is this is causing a big problem for him because and as a Jew and as a Pharisee It would be a natural assumption that I'm automatically in the kingdom of God almost like I was born into the kingdom of God Almost like I was born a Baptist my grandmama was born a Baptist So I've always just been a Baptist very similar mentality. I have that relationship with God by birthright not by conscious choice So now all of a sudden I love the fact Nicodemus really didn't ask a question. He just said Jesus we know you must be from God because the miraculous signs you're working and then Jesus hits him with the big gun And he says I tell you the truth unless you are born again. You cannot see the kingdom of God and In right fashion Nicodemus, what do you mean? How can an old man go back into his mother's womb and be born again? It's okay it happens every single week last week it was my wife So don't don't anybody ever get upset by the way Mimi when you check your phone make sure it was off so Nicodemus is now sitting here speaking to the Savior and I really again I feel bad because I'm using Nicodemus as an example of Misunderstanding the Savior but in context here because he doesn't know that Jesus is the Son of God He has no reason to assume that Jesus's words are equal to that of Scripture Julia we know that today we have the benefit of the written Word of God We have the benefit of church history We have all of that So sometimes when you're looking at a conversation between a person and Jesus you've got to remember the time period that this happens There's been no crucifixion. There's been no resurrection. There's been no acts. There's been no Bible He's speaking to someone he thinks is a great teacher He has no reason to assume that Jesus is the full Son of God or that his words are scripture We have that assumption today So now when you reapproach his question think about Nicodemus all of his religious training all of his understanding They pick apart the law Julie they're into all that the minutia and that the jot and the tittle and all those kinds of things about the law Then look at the way he responds to his question kind of obvious Diane how does an old man go back into his mother's womb? Nicodemus's natural assumption is Jesus is speaking about physical childbirth and then responds from that natural assumption Well Dustin that doesn't make sense Like how is a grown man gonna pull that off? I'm just saying they're trying to be vulgar. No, I'm trying to be mean I'm just saying how is and think about the the word problem that Nicodemus is having His problem is and he really doesn't get the benefit that we do But his problem is he starts with his own ideas and then approaches the words of the Savior instead of the other way around Whenever you approach the Word of God Sean you got a you got a question Are your ideas going to inform the way you study scripture or will the way you study scripture inform your ideas? You cannot have it both ways one is iso-getical one is exo-getical one is wrong one is right Whenever we approach the words of the Savior Dustin you always have to ask yourself me and Jesus who's more important? My words and Jesus words whose are more important here Nicodemus is not really what I also love is he's not questioning Kathy whether Jesus is right He's merely just going I don't get it He didn't say well Jesus that's not right because and starts listing off these lists of biological facts Which any one of us could do but he doesn't do that. He merely says How Contained within the how is the idea I? Want to believe what you're saying Dan. I want to believe what you're saying, but no making no sense and So he's left in this quandary of I have to figure this out I want to understand what this this this man who? Clearly is sent from God because that's Nicodemus's view we saw that in verses 1 & 2 he is clearly sent from God I feel like I should be listening to his teachings But mean oh get it and so this brings us to our third blank this morning He questioned the how not the if He questioned the how not the if Here we go he questioned the how not the if Let's look here at verses 5 Through 9 as Jesus continues the discourse and Jesus replied I assure you No one can enter the kingdom of God without be without being born of water and The spirit now we need to stop here because there is a major point of heresy that I've got to address There are those who believe that this passage right here in fact this sentence I assure you no one can enter the kingdom of God without being born of water and the spirit Use that verse to justify the fact that if you have not been baptized you accept Jesus you still go to hell So let me please be very blunt and very clear about this particular part of heresy that somehow has survived the last 1500 years that is false the reason that is false Dan is number one Why is there any expectation that Jesus in the middle of trying to teach Nicodemus about the kingdom of God? switches to teaching about baptism number one if you're choosing to read the words born of water and then you're Relating it to the idea of Christian baptism when let's be honest Christian baptism doesn't exist yet Jesus hasn't died Jesus hasn't risen there is no Christian now baptism absolutely an Old Testament reality But in this verse we are not Judy we are not saying Baptism is required for salvation one of the foundational beliefs of the Christian faith solo Christus in Christ alone After this series we're going to start a series on the five solos of the Reformation the five Foundational doctrines that all of our faith is built on in Christ alone So I want to make sure very clear as we look at this passage We are not saying Jesus is not saying no one can enter the kingdom of God unless you've been saved and baptized I can give you another really great example. We looked at him a few weeks ago on Easter Didn't we the thief on the cross? He is hanging there on the cross and he says to the Savior remember me when you come in your kingdom And what was the Savior's reply? Today you will be with me in paradise I just want to be very clear because there is some heretical teaching from that passage Glen are we good? I covered that adequately. All right, we're not talking about baptism being required serve outs for salvation But I want you to see is as he goes in here watching humans can only reproduce Human life, but the Holy Spirit gives birth to spiritual life Now Dan let's let's let's put ourselves back in this context, okay, it's the first century John the Baptist just showed up and he introduced us to this guy named Jesus of Nazareth But for the last 400 years There's been no word from God From the end of the Old Testament the last part of the book of Malachi to the very beginning of the New Testament We call that the intertestamental period there were 400 years where God didn't speak to his people He didn't say anything to his people and then all of a sudden after 400 years BAM Here's this guy who's you know dressed and eats wild honey and locusts and he lives out in the wilderness He's kind of a hippie and he's kind of weird and he's telling us prepare a way for Prepare a straight path for the Lord to travel then Angelina here comes this Jesus guy and all of a sudden He's healing left and right and blind is seen and deaf is hearing It's a big deal. It's a very big deal because all of a sudden the spirit is moving again Inside his people Maria where for 400 years We've just kind of imagine this Oh go figure We just go to church every week and we do what we've always done because that's the way we've always done it And so on the first Sunday of the month We have communion and we always sing and then somebody always gets up and talks and you do it day in and day out And year in and year out without ever sensing the Spirit of God or his presence Can you imagine how monotonous that would get? Can you see? How all of a sudden when the spirit starts stirring in the midst of God's people is a big deal It's a really big deal and all of a sudden Jesus is trying to impart this super good teaching To somebody who's just not getting it, but the Holy Spirit gives birth to spiritual life So don't be surprised when I say you must be born again The wind blows wherever it wants gives them another natural analogy You can hold your hand in the wind and feel it But Dustin you have no idea where it came from He's saying Nicodemus your understanding of what I'm trying to teach you is only right here I'm trying to tell you about all of this and you're only seeing this Like so many times we see Jesus is trying to teach something and Tim all people are getting out of it is the base You know they see the analogy. He's talking about farming or he's talking about water or he's talking about in this case like being born again The wind blows wherever it wants you hear it, but you can't tell where it comes from where it's going So you can't explain how people are born of the spirit for the last 400 years God's people have been living in legalism. They've been following the law They've been doing everything that they always did the way they always did it. That's not enough Sean that's not enough for us today You can go to church every single day and you can go to church every Sunday You can go to church every Sunday and you can go to church every Sunday and you can go to church every Sunday That's not enough for us today You can go to church every single week and read the Bible every single day and still go to hell I don't mean to be blunt, but that's the truth You can go to church every week. You can give your money every single week You can read your Bible every single day and still not have that translate to a real authentic relationship with the Savior This is where Nicodemus is at After 400 years he's steeped in tradition He's steeped in doing the same thing the way we've always done it But what Jesus is trying to say is, Terry, there is something better There is something I need you to be born into That the spirit will bring life into your life And then all of a sudden faith is going to start to blossom Are you here this morning because you always are just used to going to church? I'll be honest, I have done that for years I have been a pastor working and not wanting to go to work But went because it was my job I'll just be honest We all go through seasons where life is challenging I want to give you that I'm not trying to say that every single time you walk in the doors of the church If you are not so happily elated that you're not a good Christian No, please, please, let's not even go there That just gets us down the road of masks and legalism and pretend I don't want that But Ann, I want to ask, honestly, do we just come to church because it's what we're supposed to do? Because we're following some prescribed written pattern If I do this and listen to this sermon and give this money and go to this small group That all of a sudden God will be happy with me That I will have the spiritual life that I've always wanted That I will have that, Kathy, that birth, that newness of life Are we following a pattern to try to meet a living savior? This is the problem that Nicodemus is living with What I love is the fact that he did question the How is this going to work, Dan? Since I took a major rabbit trail there He questioned the how is it going to work Not the if it would work Angelina, he didn't ask Jesus if he was telling the truth He said, I believe you're telling the truth, but I don't get it Can you tell me how is that going to work? Here's your next blank He began to rethink his position He began to rethink his position He began to rethink his position Now, I need you to take a jump with me We were in John chapter 3 I need you to fast forward to John chapter 7 After the brief conversation with Nicodemus in John chapter 3 The story of Nicodemus kind of goes dark Jesus starts doing some other things There's some other ministry recorded And then all of a sudden, Nicodemus pops up on the radar real quick I mean, it's very brief In John chapter 7, I want to look at verses 45 to 52 John chapter 7, verses 45 to 52 Now, a little bit of the back story here The Pharisees, or the leading priests Have sent the temple guards to go arrest Jesus And they are now waiting for the guards to come back In theory, with Jesus in shackles So let's jump in here This is John chapter 7, verses 45 to 52 When the temple guards returned without having arrested Jesus The leading priests and Pharisees demanded Why didn't you bring him in? We've never heard anyone speak like this The guards responded Have you been led astray too? The Pharisees mocked Is there a single one of us rulers or Pharisees who believes in him? This foolish crowd follows him But they are ignorant of the law God's curse is on them Then Nicodemus, the leader who met with Jesus earlier, spoke up Is it legal to convict a man before he's given a hearing? He asked They replied, are you from Galilee too? Search the scriptures and see for yourself No prophet ever comes from Galilee I definitely think the Pharisees have their attitude hat on in this passage But Lynette, what I want you to see here is Nicodemus asks one question He says, Tracy, Tracy, just point of fact real quick Is it legal for us to convict somebody without at least hearing what they have to say? Now what is Nicodemus doing? Nicodemus, he's doing a couple things Number one, he's not just standing in the crowd anymore He's a part of this religious group He's a part of the Pharisees, he's a part of the religious leaders But Jackie, he's not just going along to get along anymore But he's not totally outward in the Jesus camp He's not totally got his Jesus camp t-shirt on yet But what his question here is, I think it's so shrewdly worded Julie very wisely worded what he asks He says, wait a minute Can we convict someone before at least giving them a hearing? Hearing what they have to say? Judy, what he's saying is, Pharisees, I cannot agree with you that we should just arrest Jesus Maybe we should listen to what he has to say He's creating an opportunity or trying to Create an opportunity to let Jesus speak with his cohorts, with his brothers Because see, he's already met with Jesus at night earlier We found that out And you saw that Here, Nicodemus literally, I mean he's on the radar for a single verse He just pops up there But what we get out of this single verse When you look at chapter 3 He comes to Jesus at night He begins to listen to Jesus' teachings He's trying to hear what Jesus has to say Then here in chapter 7, all of a sudden he pops back on the radar And now he's a little more pro-Jesus than anti-Jesus He's trying to hear what Jesus has to say He's now at least standing up to his friends He's saying, Julie, maybe we shouldn't arrest him before we at least hear what he has to say And then what I like is, look at the way they respond to him Are you from Galilee too? Search the scriptures and see for yourself No prophet comes from Galilee What is the Pharisee's view of Jesus? Well Dustin, it's simple Jesus doesn't meet their prescribed qualifications For someone they want to care about listening to In the Pharisee's mind, they have already ruled Jesus as wrong Before ever hearing what he had to say So therefore, Lynette, I don't need to listen to what he has to say Because he has already not met my level of veracity He has not met what I consider truth to be So therefore I can rule him out But Nicodemus didn't say that Nicodemus in this really shrewd kind of way You can see his perspective starting to change He's moved his position He's now not in the camp with the rest of the Pharisees We see that because he at least stood up to him in a small sense Doug, he did not come out guns blazing Jesus is the Messiah No he didn't But give me a little credit He didn't just all of a sudden come out as a follower of Jesus But truth be told, all 12 disciples ran when Jesus was arrested at the end of the Gospels So let's not judge Nicodemus too harshly for that But here at least we do see a separation beginning from Nicodemus And the rest of his Pharisee friends Now let me take you to the end of the story Here's the good part Your last blank He puts his faith into action He puts his faith into action The faith that I would argue was started before John chapter 3 Because something had to drive Nicodemus or draw Nicodemus To come and talk to Jesus in John chapter 3 So that faith really, Dustin, was in existence before John chapter 3 Turn with me all the way to the back of the book of John John chapter 19 John chapter 19 We're going to look at verses 38 and 39 We're going to look at verses 38 through 42 Here we are now after the crucifixion Maria, Jesus has been tried Pilate has washed his hands Jesus has been crucified Jesus has now died He however is not in the tomb yet Jesus' lifeless body is hanging on the cross And that's where we jump back into this story At John chapter 19 I'm going to begin reading at verse 38 John 19 38 Afterward, meaning after the death of Jesus Christ Joseph of Arimathea Who had been a secret disciple of Jesus Because he feared the Jewish leaders Asked Pilate for permission to take down Jesus' body When Pilate gave permission, Joseph came and took the body away With him came Nicodemus The man who had come to Jesus at night He brought about 75 pounds of perfumed ointment Made from myrrh and aloes Following Jewish burial custom They wrapped Jesus' body with spices In a long sheet of linen cloth The place of the crucifixion was near a garden Where there was a new tomb never used before And so because it was the day of preparation for the Jewish Passover And since the tomb was close at hand They laid Jesus there Now, you really have to look at the entire story of Nicodemus in context In John chapter 3 He comes to listen to Jesus at night Under the cover of darkness And his statement was, remember back, he said We know that you must be... He didn't say I know Kathy, he said we know That tells me he's had a conversation with at least one other human being Who agrees with him that Jesus is sent by God So even in John chapter 3 Nicodemus' faith was at least shared with one other person Or he wouldn't be able to use the term we He said we know that you've been sent by God Now here in John chapter 19 Sam, can you back me up one verse please In John chapter 19 I'm introduced to a man named Joseph of Arimathea Arimathea And look at what his description is He has been a secret disciple of Jesus Because he feared the Jews Now you put that together With the fact that Joseph of Arimathea Is accompanied by Nicodemus To bury the very body of Jesus In broad daylight All of a sudden This man who approached Jesus in John chapter 3 Under the cover of darkness Possibly but not textually Afraid of the Jewish leaders Just like his friend Joseph Is actually a disciple of Jesus And now we're watching his faith Come full circle And in John chapter 19 Dan It's Joseph And Nicodemus Who lay the body of Jesus Christ in the tomb It is not the 12 disciples It is not any one of the multiple Marys That exist Two Jewish leaders Bury the body of the Savior In the tomb That we then find out about On Easter Sunday You cannot get away from the Good Friday story Without seeing that Jesus' body Was buried By secret By secret Disciples The faith of Nicodemus Has been developed The whole time In the back story From the beginning of John chapter 3 All the way here at John chapter 19 And then finally The man who came to Jesus at night Is now serving Jesus In the day The man who merely said Rabbi is now Giving Jesus the burial rites And wrapping his body And putting him in the tomb Now don't kid yourselves Jesus' tomb was guarded It was guarded by Roman guards It would have also been over watched By temple guards Nicodemus doing this Is his coming out of the closet There's no way he gets away With preparing the body of Jesus And then sneaking back To the hall of the Pharisees Without anybody knowing what he did It's out now The news is out He is at least A listener of Jesus If not A follower of Jesus What I also think is amazing Is all 12 disciples At this point have scattered Terry, all 12 of the people That were there For all of those miracles That we love to study The feeding of the 5000 The 12 that were there That walked Jesus Walk on the water They have gone And here are these Two secret disciples That have now stepped out In faith And they are the last people To see the body of Jesus Before its resurrection That to me Is the coolest story ever This guy that was a closet Christian A closet believer By John chapter 19 Is out in the middle of the day Saying I believe in Jesus Deal with it New international bill version Of course That's my question for you today Where is your faith In relation to the actions Of your life Is your faith in Jesus Merely something that we celebrate On Sunday When all your Saturday night Friends are still sleeping off Whatever happens So they really don't know That you go to church Is your faith in Jesus Somewhere in the middle Where we saw Nicodemus In chapter 7 You're okay calling yourself A Christian But I'm not totally Going to challenge All of my friends at school Or all of my friends at work Or all of my family Or all of my neighbors Yes, everyone sort of knows That I believe But it's not guiding My life choices Or is your faith Where we see Nicodemus at At the end of the day Is your faith Where we see Nicodemus At the end of the book Dan, I am ready To serve my savior That's what I want you To ask yourself When I opened this morning's Message I said Be introspective But be careful There is a difference Between all you can know About the savior And having that One-on-one relationship With him Do you know him Or do you merely know Of him And my definition now Would be What does your life say About that question I really don't care What your words say And I don't mean To be offensive Or anything like that I don't care what your words say I care what your life says What does the story Of your life's actions Tell me about your faith Just like I can look at The actions of Nicodemus And I can see faith Growing in the heart Of a Jewish religious leader What do the actions Of your life Say about your faith Now we told you about The connection card We're going to use that At the end of the message Do me a favor Pull that back out You look at the connection Card And you're going to Use that as a Key to your life And you're going to Use that as a key To your life And you're going to Use that as a key To your life You look at the Front of the card Now I want you to Turn it over And take a look At the back of our Connection card The upper left Hand corner It says My next step Today is Every week at C3 I challenge people To take a next step I want you to Do something This week To grow in your faith Attending church Does not a healthy Christian make I'll even go A step further Dan Serving in church make. Busy Christian maybe, tired Christian maybe, but a healthy Christian is one who has a relationship with God. Here's your next step. This week I will challenge what I know about God with Scripture. Maybe we're at the beginning of the Nicodemus story in your life. You feel like you know a lot about God, but you're not sure if what you know is true or not. Maybe you need to spend some time in the Word and challenge what you know about God and find out if you really know the real him. Number two, this week I will take a step of faith and blank. These are for you brave ones who are feeling that. You know every now and so often somebody will come up to me after service and say, you know Pastor Bill I really felt this urge or this push to do something, but none of the next steps really clicked with me. Write your own next step. Judy that's totally okay. If the Spirit is talking to you it is way more important than whatever I have to say. So I gave you one this week. I will step out in faith and fill in the blank. Whatever you feel like the Lord is calling you that you should step out and do, I want you to do that. Third, this week I will share my encounter with someone else. Lynette I've said it every single week this series and I'm going to keep saying it. Your story of faith just might bring someone to Jesus. If you keep your story to yourself, you are robbing the kingdom of another great asset that's available to it to tell someone about the power of God. You can also see there we have a memory verse every week. I try to give you a memory verse to help you remember this story. Now the section right below that says send me info about my entire message this morning has been talking about watching faith develop in the heart of a religious man to where he had a relationship with Jesus. I have to stop and ask the question. Do you have a personal relationship with the Savior? Is he someone you know about or is he someone you genuinely know? If you're sitting here this morning and you feel like you're in the former category. Yeah I go to church I've heard a lot about Jesus but he and I don't really talk. Like I don't follow him on Instagram. Like he's just a guy. I know about him. Then what I want you to do is I want you to fill out that please send me info about beginning life with Jesus. What does that mean? It does not mean that I'm going to ask you to stand up come up here in front of the whole church. It does not mean I'm going to take your picture and put it on my Twitter feed. It does not mean that I'm going to embarrass you in any way. What it does mean if you click that or fill and click. See how digital I am? I'm just waiting for connection cards to be touched. Let's work on that. It does not mean that I'm going to embarrass you in any way. But what it does mean is by filling in that bubble you give me permission to buy you a cup of coffee. Buy you an ice cream. Buy you a burger. You give me permission to buy you whatever it takes to get you to the table. So we can have a conversation about having a real relationship with Jesus. Making a faith decision is not just a high pressure choice. It's a day by day choice to live it out. Now that second one says rededicating my life to Jesus. Maybe at some point in the past of your life you went to church. You attended a conference. You went to camp. You did something and you said yes I want to do this follow Jesus thing. And now you're sitting here today and you're finding out that your faith is not really as strong as it once was. Life, job, economy, moving. All kinds of things have gotten in the way to where your relationship with God is not where it is. Your relationship with God is not where it used to be. And you're going to make that statement and say I would like to change today. I would like to improve my relationship with God. That's what rededicating is. Finally underneath of that how to grow spiritually. We have a really great discipleship program here at C3. It's called The Race. Give me 20 minutes of your life and I can give you a personalized prescription to grow in your faith. It's that simple. Give me 20 minutes to meet you for coffee or just grab a drink or whatever. We can sit in the parking lot. But give me 20 minutes to talk to you about getting you on a plan to grow spiritually. I'm a firm believer that people should plan their work and work their plan because you get way more done than just going at things haphazardly. So if you're here this morning and you don't have an answer to this question, what will you do tomorrow to grow in your faith? If you do not have a clear concrete answer to that question, please consider filling out that bubble how to grow spiritually. You can also see there sign up for baptism. If you have accepted Christ but never been baptized, I would love the privilege of doing that. Baptism is not a part of salvation, but it is subsequent to salvation. Baptism is the outward symbol of the inward change that has already occurred. If you have never been baptized and by baptized I do mean dunked underneath the surface of the water, not just had water sprinkled on your head. I'd love to talk to you about that, why that's biblical. You can also see their church membership. You know what? If you're interested in church membership, skip filling out the bubble. Let me buy you lunch because lunch is going to be catered in for the Discover class right after church. So let me buy you some lunch and we can talk about that. You can also see their e-giving. If you want to talk to me about anything, I'd like to talk to Pastor about. Right hand side, upcoming events. I'm not going to go over those again. Jack already did that. So do me a favor, quickly take a look at the back of your connection card. Make sure that you have all the different bubbles that you have filled out. Take a next step, decide you want some additional info about the church. The entire bottom is areas that you could be interested in serving in. Just make sure. And then once you've filled out something, please turn it over and make sure the front's filled out. Because I get people who take next steps and then Terry, I'm like, well, I'll just pray for whoever that is that's deciding to take a next step this week. And it does, yes, it makes faith, it makes prayer much more challenging, but it's so much more fun when I can pray for you. So church, do me a favor, look over your connection card. I love you. Thank you so much. Here's Pastor Jack.