Glad to see that you're all here this morning. We are going to be that right. We're gonna be continuing our Encountering Jesus Series this morning now if you haven't been here for all of encountering Jesus, that is okay what we have been doing is going back into the Gospels and taking a clear look at Times and situations where Jesus Glenna where Jesus ministered Personally to an individual that person had a personal encounter with the Savior and what can be learned from Several of these personal encounters that Jesus had this morning before I begin that During this whole series. We have a key thought that I want you to think about so here's that key thought Nothing is more life-changing than a personal Encounter with the Savior Tim. There is nothing more life-changing than coming across Jesus And having a personal encounter with him that was true in the days of the gospel and that is true today And today we are gonna look at I can't lie one of my favorite personal encounter stories I know I said that every week, but that's because I have a lot of favorites, but this one really is This story ministered to me when I was a teenager in youth group this story became one of my Go to you know every every pastor kind of has some go-to sermons and Julina We do a pretty good job of planning things out You know we plan our series ahead we plan our sermons ahead the five-minute moments are written in advance But every now and then somebody asked me to speak and I don't have five weeks to get ready for it This is one of those passages Terry I could I could go to this passage and I could preach it Because I love it and because I know it and because I've studied it So do me a favor turn with me in your Bibles whether they're physical or digital this morning to Luke chapter 18 Luke is the third gospel in the New Testament Matthew Mark Luke and we're going to be looking at chapter 18 specifically verses 35 through 43 the story of a man named Bartimaeus Okay at a minor trip, but we're good I don't know all of a sudden I heard to gloom and woo All right, so Luke chapter 18. We're gonna begin reading in verse 35 and here's the story of a guy named Bartimaeus as Jesus approached Jericho a blind beggar was sitting beside the road When he heard the noise of a crowd going past he asked what was happening They told him that Jesus of Naz Jesus the Nazarene was going by So he began shouting Jesus son of David have mercy on me Be quiet the people in front yelled at him, but he only shouted louder son of David have mercy on me When Jesus heard him he stopped and ordered that the man be brought to him as the man came near Jesus asked him What do you want me to do for you? Lord? He said I want to see and Jesus said all right Receive your sight your faith has healed you instantly the man could see and he followed Jesus praising God and all who saw it praised God too This is one of my favorite stories. You can also find this story in Matthew and in Mark There are a few small detail changes like in Matthew story There are two guys that are healed that doesn't mean that Luke's story is wrong Eric It just means Luke chose to feature one of the two guys got to remember any time you read the Gospels It's like reading for eyewitness accounts to the same event Diane if there were four of us that all witnessed a car accident From different sides of the intersection we would have four unique perspectives of one singular event there's also in I believe it's Mark has them traveling to Jericho and Luke has them traveling from or vice versa. I forget Not a big problem because Angelina there's actually more than one Jericho So it is completely possible the Old Testament Joshua Jericho and the New Testament Jericho aren't Exactly the same city So it is actually possible to travel from Jericho to Jericho or if you ever go to Miami It is totally possible to catch a plane from Miami to Miami If you're flying from Miami to Miami and who knows what state you're going to They both have Miami's that's right So I was I was thinking about the University of Miami in Ohio because every time I see them I always think of Florida, but you can't say Miami and not think Florida, but there are other Miami's Want to give it your first blank this morning and then we're gonna go ahead and get into this story This is a really really fun encounter. So here's your first blank his situation was complicated It's complicated his situation was complicated Jericho was known or here's the verse as Jesus approached Jericho a blind beggar was sitting by the road This is the opener Lynette This is the opening scene to our dramatic narrative today as Jesus approached Jericho a blind Beggar was sitting beside the road This gives us the who we got a Jesus we got a beggar This gives us the where we're now at a biblical city named Jericho Jericho was known was known as the city of palms Jericho was known as the city of palms for the palm trees that grew around it Jericho was also a very busy city a high traffic area So if Jericho is a high traffic area filled with palm trees, let's just go ahead and call it Miami Okay, so Jericho is a lot like Miami However, the road to Jerusalem from Jerusalem to Jericho, which is a road that's featured very prominently You know one of Jesus's stories was a very treacherous road number one Nelson It descended a very large amount of elevation. It was a really rocky hillside There were lots of places for people to hide. It was kind of like a robbers road So that road is the story that Jesus put the Good Samaritan on That's that road that that guy fell into robbers the same road So we're talking about Eric. We're talking about a high traffic city lots of palm trees and we'll say some less than suspect behavior going on there So take a little bit of Miami and a little bit of Gotham and you can kind of get an idea You can kind of get a little bit of an idea of what of what Jericho was like and here we have a man a blind Man, so now we not only know that he's he's a beggar But now we know he's lack sight and why do you think he's begging because there's no There's no welfare system at this point Their welfare system is to sit and beg and wait for people to out of the graciousness of their hearts give money Now we still have people today that are less fortunate and that are standing on the side of the road They're usually holding a sign made out of cardboard or you know, some other fancy non-perishable material and What do you think about those people just you don't have to say it out loud but just in your mind Want you to picture yourself? driving up to someone who's panhandling and Now I want you to capture the emotion that you feel and the thoughts that just went through your head and Now I want you to understand Bartimaeus the situation is a little complicated Because not everybody that walks by him just like today I have to admit there are times that I roll up on somebody who's standing there with a sign and I wonder Where's the story? How did they get to where they are today? I wonder are they really telling the truth? I know when we lived in Orlando There was a there was a person who was trying to sort of poke fun at how much people don't believe people who panhandle And he stood on the roadside for I believe it was one afternoon With a sign that said I'm not broke. I have a job. I just want some beer That's what he said and it was a whole news article about it And I think three or four different people loved the sign enough that they went and bought him beer and Brought it and so the picture in the newspaper was him standing there with a sign with these stacks of like 12 packs of beer. I Know Terry you're one of those guys you probably would have went okay I can live with that Yeah, it was very honest, but here's the problem This is first century we're talking about here. This man has no way to work Sean no way to care or feed himself. He's also blind Amanda at a time where The most luxurious travel was on an animal that still had its own form of exhaust That still got swept to the sides of the street. So Bartimaeus is in a really complicated situation. He's blind he cannot provide for himself he's sitting in the dirt and the muck and He is at the mercy of whoever walks by Yes, I would say if we were to interview Bartimaeus this morning Melissa. His life is a little bit complicated But I don't think His life is any more complicated than some of ours We all come to church this morning with various background stories Various jobs or looking for jobs different family situations, and I think sometimes we can get drawn into the idea That we have to have some form of a of this perfect cookie-cutter life Before Jesus really starts any kind of benefit and I think that is so false. I think it is so untrue It's almost like Nelson. We should clean the fish before we catch them Oh, you know churches are only filled with perfect people. So I can't go to church until I'm perfect Little hint churches are not the only church that is filled with perfect people is the church that is empty Because there are no perfect people the perfect church is the empty church, you know, I cuz there's no bickering. There's no arguing There's also no amening to the sermon. So it's a little boring to preach in an empty room But if we if we give into this mentality that we have to be perfect before Jesus can do us any good You're completely ignoring the people that Jesus minister to in the Bible Bartimaeus being in my opinion one of the chief in that crowd Selena This man had some issues. He had some things going on in his life. He's not the prime candidate for deacon of the week. Okay But as we will see as we get into his story Jesus makes his life the point Jesus makes his life the point. Here's your second blank His faith led his actions his faith led his actions We'll take a look at our next two verses here, this is Luke 18 36 and 37 When he heard the noise of a crowd going past stop Why did he have to hear the noise of the crowd? Because he can't see he's blind His primary sense of knowing what is around him is auditory when he heard the noise of a crowd going past He asked what was happening? Obviously Nelson. I need to ask somebody who can see what's going down They told him Jesus the Nazarene was going by so he began shouting Jesus son of David stop Those four words the first four words he speaks speak volumes About where Bartimaeus is at in his faith. Let me show you Angelina. Jesus is his name, right? We all know that But son of David you can see there. It's capitalized. It's a term It is a term from the Old Testament For who the Messiah now? Why is son of David a term for the Messiah? Because if you look in Old Testament prophecy the Messiah had to come from the line The lineage of King David. So what he is saying here in the first four words, he speaks Jesus my Messiah Have mercy on me Amanda he opens his entire the very first line he gets in this whole story Jesus My Messiah he identifies with that messianic prophecy Jesus son of David And then he says have mercy on me But the first four words he speaks tells us terry. He's he's coming from a place of faith Now I found it really interesting as I was discussing this with one of my pastor friends He had a resource That was the historical writings of Josephus and in those writings Josephus gives a picture of what the beggar life is Picture of what the beggar life was like at this time period and there was a beggar's row So to speak, you know think about a a group of beggars all kind of begging in a line sort of thing And I thought well that that adds a really interesting picture because see when I read this story I only see Bartimaeus now. I know that in Matthew's version of the story that there are two men But Bartimaeus is the only one with any lines He's the only guy that's active in the drama that's going on here So I diane I I really tend to focus in on him But if we widen our gaze for a minute here and we think about the fact that Bartimaeus is standing We're sitting in a row of other people who are begging And then they all hear this commotion go by well ray all of a sudden Bartimaeus's first four words Jesus son of David They mean a lot more if he's sitting with a whole crowd full of people that aren't recognizing Jesus that way Bartimaeus's faith in who Jesus was Led the rest of this encounter. He stepped out on faith Jesus my messiah have mercy on me Notice he didn't say Jesus my messiah. Give me a Bentley You didn't say that Jesus my messiah I need eye surgery you didn't say that he's just said have Mercy have mercy On me now what's interesting is The bible doesn't tell us how Bartimaeus came to faith in Jesus Glenna, there's there's nothing before this story I can't tell you how Bartimaeus heard who Jesus the nazarene was I can't tell you how he Correlated Who the person of Jesus with the promised messiah, but I can tell you this when he uses that term son of David He is identifying with Jesus. He's saying Jesus my messiah Have mercy on me Here's your next blank He struggled with his surroundings Bartimaeus. He struggled with his surroundings Let's look at the next section this is verse 39 in the first part of verse 40 I love this be quiet The people will yell at him So jackie put put this picture in your mind. We were all walking right outside of ancient Jericho Jesus the nazarene is is Traveling by there's a large there's a lot of commotion going on enough So that it was out of the norm because eric you gotta remember if Jericho is a busy kind of hustle bustle city I know melanie tells me when the very first time she visited new york as a child Or as a teen she wasn't really a child but as a young adult She didn't really I guess register how noisy the city can be Because when you live there you just sort of drown it out And she was telling me she was there. She was like wow, it's so noisy And she mentioned it to a friend of hers who lived in the city for a while. He goes. Oh I didn't even notice Like you just get used to it You get used to the the cars and the taxis and the and it just becomes part of the heartbeat of the city Well, Jericho is a pretty busy city So now think about what kind of commotion debbie had to be there for him to register an auditory change Remember, he can't see he only has his auditory senses to tell him what's going on But something about the commotion caused by jesus coming by Was so out of the norm for his regular auditory expectation That he took notice Now what's interesting is we don't necessarily know how many of the beggars that he was sitting with are blind But through his hearing and that'll become important in a minute through his hearing He hears and he screams out jesus my messiah son of david have mercy on me. Be quiet. Everybody tells him I love that this whole crowd of people they're all walking by probably diane all those well-intentioned religious people Who want to just keep jesus in his fun little jesus bubble and let's keep jesus in the clean white row bubble away from all The people who really need ministry because this is easier This whole crowd of people are going by And they're telling the blind guy to shut up I love that jesus messiah have mercy on me. Shut up Then i've time for you This is jesus he doesn't need to stop and talk to you I mean just think Of the types of things that that crowd was thinking when they told him to be quiet Now, of course we get the benefit of of the tim that 2 000 years worth of hindsight. We know What jesus is we know the power that he has but terry what if you didn't know any of that Put yourself in the crowd on the day of the event You don't know that jesus is the son of god you don't know anything about the crucifixion or the resurrection or Acts when the holy spirit comes you don't know any of that. All you know is here comes this pretty important Jewish teacher who's saying some pretty wild stuff. Okay, his teaching is pretty wild Would you have been in the crowd I gotta be honest, I think I would have Being perfectly honest with you this morning I think If I were in that crowd out of respect for my rabbi I would have wanted to keep him away from the unclean guy in the gutter I have to admit. I think that would be me today If I was in that crowd diane, it's not that I don't believe in jesus. It's that sometimes my own expectations Get in the way Of the mission that jesus was trying to do so. I don't really fault the crowd man I don't think they're the bad guys in this story, but they do Represent a very serious challenge For Bartimaeus be quiet the people in front of him yelled at him But he only shouted louder Son of david have mercy on me And when jesus heard him He stopped Now eric do we know for sure? Remember if Bartimaeus had not have yelled the second time could jesus have walked by Very possible It only says when jesus heard him it doesn't say specifically when jesus heard him the second time, but that's the obvious connotation, isn't it? That's the obvious connotation terry the crowd tells Bartimaeus to be quiet and Bartimaeus says no no no no son of david and he yells again He yells in spite of the challenges that are in front of him in spite of those naysayers In spite of those people who are telling him Jesus isn't for you Jesus is more important in spite of whatever those voices are He says I am going to press on Angelina, I gotta be honest. There are times in my life where my faith has been silenced by the naysayers around me And that was tough jackie. That was a tough thing I had to fight through there comes a point in your relationship with jesus where you have to shout over the crowd Where you have to no longer allow those external things in your life whether they be people or events Or family members or expectations or job or culture in general There comes a time where we have to stand up And shout out above the crowd No He's my messiah. That's what he's saying right son of david my messiah. I am identifying with jesus There is a time where we too have to struggle with our surroundings Our country is not exactly anti-christian, but it's definitely less pro-christian than it was we'll say it that way The religion is no or our religion is no longer really the center of what is going on in the in the american cultural marketplace, we're definitely back to almost a polytheistic marketplace and And that challenge is probably not going to get better We have to learn as he did to be able now. He's not disrespectful here He didn't yell back at the crowd, which is probably what I would have done. I'll be honest I would glenn i'm yelling out for jesus the guy in front of me tells me to shut up and like yeah And then I would yell so he doesn't do that He ignores the challenge from the surrounding in front of him and he continues pressing on to reach jesus And then jesus hears him And jesus says okay bring that guy to me Here's your next blank And this is my favorite part of this story. He was honest about his issues He was honest about his issues The rest of verse 40 and 41 here As the man came near Jesus asked him What do you want me to do for you? Ray this is this is by far my favorite part of this entire story You're in the crowd, right ray. Let's say you're the guy that's standing right next to jesus. So you have a front row View for what's going on here? You heard the beggar from a distance. Maybe at first son of david have mercy on you You maybe didn't hear the crowd telling him to shut up all you didn't search. He's starting to yell even louder Then you're standing next to jesus and jesus calls the beggar up What do you want me to do for you? Just think about that question for a second. Wouldn't it be obvious ray if you got the front row seat And you got somebody who's having to help the blind guy find jesus Wouldn't you think that would sort of be an obvious question? But lanette it's not jesus stops and makes a moment by this one question What do you want me to do for you? Not? Oh, you smell you need a shower not Receive your sight you've been healed. He doesn't now just have the power to do that. Absolutely Jesus has the power to jesus knew what this man's issues were before he said anything but jesus gives barter mayas the opportunity To speak what he needs what he wants jesus says What do you want me to do for you? He responds lord again placing himself in subjugation to and worship of christ lord I want to see Now terry if this crowd is large enough that it made enough of a noise that barter mayas could notice it Is it possible that there are people in the crowd who didn't notice the barter mayas? Was not blind or was blind possibly By jesus asking him. What do you want me to do for you? Jesus gives barter mayas front row Spot to say what he really wants now diane. What do we call it today? When we talk to jesus and ask for something What do we call that today? prayer It's exactly what it is Now it's a little hard to think about the concept of prayer while jesus was walking on earth But eric isn't that what we do today when we spend time talking to god talking about our needs and our wants we call that prayer Well in this in the same instance Bartimaeus is now standing in the physical presence of the savior And instead of jesus overtaking the line mel. I know what you need here. I know what you want You want to be healed boom you want a better job boom. You definitely need a shower boom, you know Whatever whenever it is But jesus makes a moment out of barter mayas by looking at him and saying what do you want He gives him the opportunity To show his faith to everyone else angelaina. I want to see Lord, I want to see And if you didn't know that he was blind You know now By jesus asking barter mayas what he wanted jesus accomplishes two things number one He puts the focus On barter mayas's issue not himself eric jesus totally could have just went up and gone bam you're healed Think about the bleeding woman that we looked at a few weeks ago jesus didn't even say anything to her and she was healed Jesus had the power and the ability to heal barter mayas remotely think about the roman centurion Who says lord my son is ill He says go home your son's been healed jesus did not have to do this This is the feature in this story is he looks at barter mayas and says what do you want me to do for you He puts the power prayer front and center number two he guarantees for everyone else who's watching That this man could not see before jesus gave him sight This is not a case of mistaken identity where my sunglasses are so dark. I look like i'm blind This is this is a he authenticates the miracle for everyone who's watching Because when you stand diane when someone stands in front of you and says I want to see What is the obvious connotation? I can't right now By giving barter mayas the opportunity To speak what he needed he a put the power of prayer front and center and number two He authenticates the miracle for everyone who's watching Because now tim if you were like maybe a few feet away from jesus you didn't watch barter mayas walk up You're just wondering well, what is jesus and this guy talking about but when barter mayas says I want to see Then jesus responds in our next section. He authenticates this. This is a real miracle I love That jesus takes that moment Terry he could have just gone on like the woman the bleeding woman. He could have just He had to be healed. Thanks. I'm on my way You know on my way to heal another person's son, but i'm gonna stop and make a moment Jesus offers barter mayas the opportunity to verbalize for himself and all of the witnesses there Exactly what he needed a gigantic step of faith and authenticates the miracle for the people around him. Here's your fourth blank Oh, no fifth blank Right He left his old life behind This is really the wrap-up of this story. He left his old life behind Take a look at the last two verses that we looked at this morning verse 42 and 43 And jesus says all right, I love that. Hey man, what do you want jesus? I want to see all right Receive your sight your faith Has healed Your faith Has healed you now. How did we see barter mayas's faith previous to that statement? We saw it in the way he addressed jesus jesus son of david jesus my messiah Then in spite of the crowd that tried to quiet him in spite of that that resistance He shot his faith out up again over the crowd son of david have mercy on me Then he gets all the way to the feet of jesus. He's looking him in the face almost and then jesus says Jesus says what do you want? I want to see in every one of those instances. We're watching the faith of barter mayas play out Until here when jesus wraps it up your faith has healed you instantly The man could see instantly Julie this is not a case of mistaken identity. This is not a case of sunglasses This is he was blind and now he sees cue amazing grace wrap up. We're done. This is not a mistake Instantly The man could see and then what's the very first thing he does? And he followed jesus praising god The man who at the beginning of our story was blind and sedentary by side the side of the road At the end of our story is now fully sighted and moving Following jesus. He did not go back to where he started because you know why tim he didn't need to He had been healed of that and now he moved on and then look what happened after that and all who saw it praised god Jesus brings glory to god by a healing barter mayas, but by b what barter mayas does in response Bartimaeus says okay. I'm done with that old life And as I was preparing for this um This the as I was preparing for this morning's message this week I thought of paul's words in second corinthian chapter 5 verse 17 This means that anyone who belongs to christ has become A new person the old life is gone The new life has begun When we started our story this morning barter mayas was blind begging beside the side of road in a busy street after one encounter with jesus He's now sighted and he's left that old begging life behind and he is following christ And other people are praising god because of it if that's not lifestyle evangelism at its best I don't I don't I don't know what would be The challenge for us today is when people look at our life when people look at the way we live out our faith Are they as encouraged as we are when we look at this story? Terry is there a difference a noticeable difference Between the old life pre jesus And the new life with jesus There should be there should be a clear noticeable difference between a life that was lived in sin And a life that has lived chasing after righteousness now do I believe that once you accept jesus you are going to become perfect for all time No, I do not Just let everybody off the hook. I do not expect anybody to become perfect. There is a difference between salvation and Sanctification now i'm using really really big, you know three dollar theological terms here, but amanda there's a difference Salvation is a one-time thing. It takes place you accept christ your sins are forgiven. You are saved. That's a one-time moment Sanctification is the rest of your life spent following jesus The rest of your life spent following jesus Learning from his teachings your life becoming more of what he wants it to be that is where bardamaeus's story left off He left off leaving His old life and following jesus Have you had an encounter with god in your life an encounter with the savior Maybe not as dramatic as this Now yes, maybe you have been personally healed of something I know I brag on all the time, but put that there miss diane's been healed of cancer That's a fantastic testimony fantastic testimony I've not been healed of cancer I can't say that that's my story I've been healed of other things other things that I had to leave in the past that I had to walk away from In my pursuit of following jesus. I have left some things in the past What about you this morning? As you sit here and you think about the story of your life over the last couple of years five years 10 years Can you pick a moment nelson where you had an encounter with jesus where your path altered where it changed? Where all of a sudden you began? following jesus and praising god Maybe not maybe you're at the beginning of that process. Maybe you're just sort of getting into this whole following jesus thing. That's okay Do me a favor and pull out your connection card. I have a question for you this morning Pastor jack introduced you to the connection card earlier Please make sure you have the front filled out so we can have a record of your attendance First or second time guests we'd like you to fill out the whole front so we can thank you for visiting with us today But I want to look at the back Because this week I have something a little different for you in the next steps Next step is the upper left hand portion. You see it says my next step today is You'll notice there's blanks there sean i'm not letting you off easy this week by letting you just check a box This week I am struggling against maybe You're at the part Of barter meis's story lanette where there is something in your life That is really holding you back From getting closer to jesus It's that crowd it's saying be quiet Don't bother jesus with that He's too important. Don't make him unclean. You really want to tell that to jesus Maybe there is something someone or some aspect of your life that is blocking you from growing in your faith If it is, I want you to be honest And I want you to put it right there in that blank if that's you this morning Fess up to it step up realize that there is an obstacle in your way and I want you to put it in there The second one one right below that this week. I want nelson If jesus was standing here right in front of you And he said to you what he said to barter meis What do you want me to do? Would you know the answer? Jenny, would you know what you would tell the savior if he stood in front of you right now and said jenny? What can I do for you? Ray, what can I do for you? Selena, what can I do for you? Doug what can I do for you? Because the reality is jesus is always available to us through prayer, but eric we sometimes don't always correlate that With jesus asking the question What can I do for you tim? What can I do for you jack? What can I do for you if you had the opportunity to ask one thing of the savior today? What would it be? Whatever it is you just thought of put it right there in that blank. I gave you a nice long blank So you could try to fill it in Your next step this week is to get closer to jesus by either one of these things This week i'm struggling against filling the blank this week. I want fill in the blank Or as we were keeping this one here for the whole series This week, I will share my encounter my story With jesus with someone else Sean your story Is only your story and it's important But your story is going to reach someone else's life your story can change someone else's eternal destiny If you know that person if you feel like the lord is leading you to that person That you need to share your story with then you need to take step up and take that responsibility and do it Use your story as a tool for the gospel You can also see there we have memory verse this week. I will memorize luke chapter 18 verse 40 Now this morning's story is so obviously a a gospel presentation in and of itself someone who is Broken is healed. It's the blind see it's a great story about the power of jesus to transform a life But I would be totally remiss this morning if I didn't ask you Do you have a personal relationship with the savior? Have you had a personal encounter maybe not one so dramatic that you were blind and now all of a sudden you can see But do you have a moment in your life? When you encountered the savior? If not under that send me info about section you can see it says beginning life with jesus Maybe jesus is someone you've heard of that you know of that you've heard people talk about But he has never been personal to you. He's never been someone you personally know If that's you this morning, I want to invite you to fill out that beginning life with jesus section I'm not going to bring you up here in front of the church. I'm not going to embarrass you in any way I'm not going to put you on my twitter feed I'm just going to see if I can take you out for a cup of coffee Or some ice cream or a burger or whatever it takes to get you to the table so we can talk about How to have a one-on-one relationship with jesus The second one rededicating my life. Maybe you became a christian you accepted jesus at some point in your life But things get in the way you're busy. You have work you get married you get a new job You move out of town all of a sudden. You're not nearly as connected In your relationship with god as you once were If that's you then do me a favor fill in rededicating my life And finally how to grow spiritually we have an awesome discipleship plan here at c3 Give me 20 minutes of your life and I can give you a personalized growth prescription to start getting you on the way to growing spiritually I know I feel like I like a broken record every time I say this but being a christian is not about going to church Being a christian is about growing in your relationship with god going to church is a component of helping you to grow But being a christian is not about going to church going to church is part of being a healthy christian So if you don't have an answer to what are you going to do tomorrow to grow spiritually consider meeting with me We'll sit down and we'll work it out You can also see there we've got the upcoming events ladies to go see the movie. Mr. and Mrs. We're going to The gun range to go drop some rounds and the identify class is coming up someone asked me last week Who can come to the identify class? The identify class is stage two of the three stage growth track membership program The growth track membership process so yes The discover class we had it last sunday our new It was that's because we had a few people who wanted to become members the identify class People well if you are currently a member of the church meaning you went to the class last week Or you went to our old membership class You can come to the identify class does that make sense The identify class is stage two which means you have to be a member of the church to come to it Does that make sense? Now several of you sitting here are members of the church because you came to the old membership class. That's totally fine I'm not making everybody go through step one again, but the whole point is now we have a step one to a step two to a step Three so if you are currently a member of the church if you are not sure if you're a member or not guess what? We have a really good database. I can let you know that Okay, if you don't remember coming to the membership class and saying yes, I want to be a member of the church Then probably you're not but if you want me to look it up or pastor jack to look it up We'd be happy to do that for you But the identify class is coming up in a few weeks If you are already a member of the church you are invited to come It is not just for people who just started attending because nobody's come to this class yet Because we were just we just made it we just wrote it So If you are currently a member of the church if you are currently a regular attender and you have not come To the discover class yet, then you need to wait and come to the discover class first Then you go to i'm doing this backwards right because over here. This would be step one then step two then step three Okay, so if you are currently a member of the church But they can always You could if you wanted me to go over all the responsibilities of being a member and just join ahead of time Yes, we could totally do that, but there's more to discover class than just joining the church That's right, right What we did plus a whole bunch extra So that's why what I really want is people who are already members to come to the identify class learn about spiritual gifts Take the spiritual gifts test assessment so you can get a better picture of how god has made you So there you got your upcoming events You got your next steps you're sending info about one other thing I got to point out everyone look at the part that says i'm interested in serving in There is one new team on the connection card that's not been there before can anybody tell me what it is Under the i'm interested in serving in there's one two three four columns of three teams each There is one team that has never been on this card before today Nope that one was there last week Yes, ma'am the cookie team I was specifically asked by the cookie team to make sure we could fit them on somewhere So I want to tell you about the cookie team Because the cookie team sounds fun, right? All of a sudden everybody went I want to eat cookies for church. That sounds great I signed up for that small group. Can we have an oreo small group because i'm in Him Here's what the cookie team is what it is not a trick we actually have a team in the church called the cookie team So let me tell you it's called dan and judy dan and judy are the cookie team right now and they need some help So this is what the cookie team is When someone visits our church for the first time we call that a first-time guest, right? When they visit for the first time and they fill out their connection card with their contact information Most specifically their address We go and bake fresh cookies And deliver them to their door And they're delicious because angela got some And deliver them to their door with a little thank you note that just says thank you for coming to our church Here's my here's one of our church invite cards that has all our contact information on it would love to see you again It is a way for us to show appreciation that somebody decided to come and check out our church It is the beginning of our assimilation process to help us grow the church, but you know what? It's really hard for one couple to do that every single week all the time Now, yes, there are sometimes sean people come and they don't put their address on the card. That's okay But the whole point is if we had a few different people who are willing to help a few different people who are willing to After church is over we go over the cards janet. This is how easy it is I grab my trusty little smartphone. I take a picture of it and I text it to you Now you have the address What people do is they'll swing by publics and get either the ones you break off or the fun little, you know tubular roll and bake up 12 cookies and go deliver them to that house and just say thank you I think it is super important when people visit our church that we let them know we appreciated their time That they came and some of you were recipients of the cookie team I can tell you that i've had a few people call me and say that it really made an interesting first impression Because the cookies get there before dinner I'm studying it usually the cookies are delivered between four and five o'clock and all of a sudden you got this warm little chocolate chip Appetizer for dinner. I'm saying that's pretty good. So that's what the cookie team is It is not a cookie eating small group. It is a team to deliver cookies So that we can have a cookie eating small group we could Um, so just do me a favor think about it whether it's the cookie team or somewhere else Somebody really smart said to me this week planting a church is kind of like building a baseball team You're recruiting for jobs. You're not recruiting for spectators. I thought that was really really smart the way he said that We're trying to grow our church and we need as many people as can to get involved So do me a favor take a look if it's not the cookie team find somewhere else. Give it a shot step in I love you Pastor jack is up