On the back of your bulletin you can see we're in our series called Walking Deeper, and Walking Deeper is about learning how to show our faith in our day-to-day life. We go to church on Sundays, but we live life Monday to Friday, Monday to Saturday. And Eric, sometimes we got to take our faith from Sunday and have it make decisions in our life on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, or even Saturday. And how do we do that? Nelson, how do we take this awesome thing we call Christianity and everybody's comfortable here at church on Sunday, and how do we make it life-changing on Wednesday? How do we make it life-changing on Friday? That is what Walking Deeper is all about. I do not expect that when this series is over, that every single one of us is going to be a super Christian giant. That's not my expectation, and Julie, I hope it's not yours. But what I would like to see is you get something out of each week of these messages that changes your faith Monday to Saturday. That's the whole point. Jackie, taking one more step, because where you're at in your faith is not the same as where Angelina's at in her faith. And where Angelina's at in her faith is not the same as where Judy is at in her faith, and that's okay. But what I would like us to all do is collectively take one step further. Wherever you're at today, this week, I want you to collectively take one step further. Now, I didn't change the title on the back of your bulletin, so I apologize, but we'll let everybody take a breath. This morning, we're talking about finances. Okay, everybody just... Money. Eric, we're going to talk about money in church. Oh my gosh. So everybody just go ahead if you need to adjust, you know, if you need... I would say if you need to adjust your tie, but let's be kidding. Nobody wears a tie to our church. This is, you know, actually I saw a picture, the picture that we took together, and somebody actually, they didn't comment on Facebook, but they texted me. Last week we had a baby dedication. We had a really big picture out front with a large family, and they were impressed that I actually wore slacks to church. Because this is Florida. Normally, I just wear shorts and flip-flops. They're like, wow, Bill, you look really good in slacks. I'm like, yes, that's the one pair of khaki slacks I own. And it comes out on Easter and Christmas and baby dedications and all that kind of stuff. But listen, if we're going to be mature, then Amanda, I think we should agree we have to talk about all the topics in the Bible. Not just the ones that are comfortable. Fred, not just the ones that are easy, not just the ones that are, hey Jesus, praise God, awesome. Not just the miracles, not just the prayers, not just the warm fuzzies, but we should be mature enough to talk about the tough stuff. In fact, I had a pastor friend of mine kind of boil an idea at me of building an entire sermon series around questions that are submitted from the church via social media, texts, letting people text in questions, and building an entire series around it. And I said, you do realize you're going to get some seriously tough questions. So you better be very well read up on all your cultural issues before you decide to let your church decide what you're going to preach. But we have to be mature enough to talk about tough stuff. So let's start out with our key thought. This is the key thought for every single week during this series. Our faith should be evident in the way we live day to day. And yes, last week we talked about our priorities. This week we're talking about finances, your money. If I could put it in a single sentence, it would be this. How does my faith influence the money I spend? How does my faith influence the money I spend? Now that everybody is super uncomfortable, now we can begin. All right, let me give you your first blank. Or no, no, no, before I do that, next slide. I believe it's, okay, I'm going to read to you some of Jesus's teaching on money. At the end of this section, you'll see I pulled it from three separate sections and I put it all together with no verse notations. Because I just want you to hear, if Jesus were to teach about money, here's one of his sermon notes. Listen to this. Don't store up treasures here on earth, where moths eat them and rust destroys them, where thieves break in and steal. Store your treasures in heaven, where moths and rust cannot destroy and thieves do not break in and steal. Wherever your treasure is, there the desires of your heart will be also. If you are faithful in the little things, you will be faithful in the larger ones. But if you are dishonest in the little things, you won't be honest with greater responsibilities. And if you are untrustworthy about worldly wealth, who will trust you with the true riches of heaven? And if you are not faithful with other people's things, why should you be trusted with things of your own? No one can serve two masters, for you will hate one and love the other. You will be devoted to one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. To those who use well what they are given, even more will be given and they will have an abundance. But from those who do nothing, even what little they have will be taken away. Now leave that out for a second. There are the three passages that I pulled that section from. All are Jesus's direct teaching and all are Jesus's teaching about resources, money. Now I should say resources is not only money. In fact, in the parable of the talents, it could be applied to abilities, skills, your workmanship, your craftsmanship, your time we talked about. But specifically this morning, I want to give you a few ways that your faith can guide the way you spend money. So here's your first blank this morning. One more time. Only heavenly investments will last. Only heavenly investments will last. Now we're going to break down that somewhat larger sermon series, that somewhat larger section we just read. So here's the first one. Matthew chapter six verses 19 and 20. So this is Matthew, first book in the New Testament. So if you have your Bibles with you, are they physical or digital? Turn with me to the beginning of the New Testament. Matthew chapter six verses 19 and 20 and I'm reading it in the New Living translation. Don't store up treasures here on earth where moths eat them and rust destroys them, where thieves break in and steal. Store your treasures in heaven where moths and rust cannot destroy and thieves do not break in and steal. Angelina, first thing I want you to see here. Jesus is juxtaposing two different types of wealth. He's talking about worldly wealth or worldly treasures and he's talking about heavenly wealth or heavenly treasures. Both are able to be stockpiled. Okay so let's start that base principle here. We're talking about two different forms of wealth, one that's here on this earth and one that's stored in heaven, but they are both able to be stored up or accumulated or this wouldn't happen. And then he gives three things as an example. Moths eat them, rust destroys them, thieves break in and steal. He's talking about the simple fact, I think we've all heard it before. Lads you can't take it with you. I don't care how filthy rich you become. You can't take it with you. Look at the Chinese emperors and the Egyptian pharaohs of old. They used to bury their money with them with the hope that they could take it into the afterlife. Was it Chinese emperors, the terracotta soldiers? They built armies for themselves to have in the afterlife. They were trying to do the right thing but doing it in a completely wrong way Dan. The first thing I need you to understand when we ask the question, how does my faith influence the money I spend? There must be a priority of a heavenly agenda over your earthly agenda. When it comes to the way you allocate your finances, there must be a priority of the heavenly agenda over the earthly agenda. And the simple fact is, Eric leave that right there, the heavenly agenda is more protected than the earthly one is. Because look at what Jesus says, if you store up for yourselves treasures here on earth, moths eat them. That's just the natural process. Think about where they are in the world, where they live. Moths love to eat cloth, all different kinds of, and think about one of the major industries at the time the Bible was written was selling and making cloth. In fact Lydia, we find her in the New Testament, was a maker of purple cloth. So dying cloth is a major thing. The problem is bugs like to eat natural fibers. So the natural process of life, rust, time, even for something as hard as metal, something so sure as a metal tool. Terry, I know you work with your hands, you have a lot of tools. I know because I've gone to work with you, you have a lot of tools. But if you don't keep your tools well, they rust, right? I know I did a job with Terry recently where we were in the water, and so we had to take metal tools and he was doing something underneath the water and he showed me one that was just a few days ago that was completely rust, I mean obliteratedly rusted. No way you could use it anymore. I was like, wow, how old is this? He's like, yeah, about that a couple days ago. And I was really, I was shocked at how fast that thing just was completely obliterated. Why? Misuse. You didn't use it, use the tool for the right job. You know, Dan, I know you have a lot of tools, but then you've got to maintain it. You've got to keep it up because the natural process of usage and time will eventually break things down. And then third, of course, thieves. Haters gonna hate, people gonna steal. Like, I don't know a better pastoral way to say that, so that's what we're gonna go with. Haters gonna hate and people gonna steal. And you know why people are gonna steal? Diane, because somewhere in my mind, I think I deserve what you earned without having to work for it, so I'm just gonna take it. Because I deserve what she has. She worked for it, she earned it, but I deserve it, so I'm just going to take it. All three of these things will eventually break down everything you can invest your earthly money in. Even our currency itself, printed on cotton, you leave it out long enough and it will eventually break down. Metal coins eventually rub off, they break down. Even the money we spend itself breaks down, not even symbolically, but literally. If we are going to put our faith into our finances, the very first thing we have to do is realize that a heavenly agenda for our money must be a priority. And why? Look at what Jesus says here. When you store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, then all of a sudden the moths and the rust and the thieves are gone. Nobody breaks into heaven and steals money. Because ultimately, let's be honest, the treasure you're storing for yourself in heaven isn't monetary. Judy, there's not an exchange rate where you can just pull out your visa and charge a hundred dollars and have it be eighty-five dollars in heaven. That's not exactly what Jesus is saying here. What Jesus is saying, there are treasures you can store up in heaven. In fact, it's a really fun study. If you ever look into it, there are crowns, there are robes, there's a lot of different wearables. I'll say it that way. There's a lot of different things that you store for yourself in heaven, but none of them have to do with actual money. There must be a priority of kingdom agenda over your own agenda, and that's where we start this morning. That's where we start with how do we work our faith into our money. Here's your second blank. Everyone's going to love this. My spending reveals my true concerns. My spending reveals my true concerns. And here's everyone's favorite verse when it comes to money. Still in the gospel of Matthew chapter six, the very next verse, 21. Wherever your treasure is, there the desires of your heart will also be. Let me bring this into a more modern day explanation. Tracy, if you are brave enough to go back over the last, shall we say, 90 days worth of your finances and categorize, this is tough, go over the last 90 days worth of your finances. Everybody's starting to trust me. This is not comfortable for me up here either, so let's just all admit it. Go over the last 90 days worth of your finances and categorize every dime you spent. Categorize food out, groceries in, entertainment, movies, video games, toys, ammunition, clothes, whatever it is you spend your money on, and categorize everything. You have just seen where your heart really lies because, let's be honest, there are two forms of currency and money in life. Time and money, and they're directly related. Julie, you spend your time earning money and then you spend your money enjoying the rest of your time. You see that, right? They're directly correlated. You spend your time earning money and then you spend your money enjoying whatever time it is that you're not working. Unless you're one of the few people who really likes what they do for a living, so you actually enjoy the time that you're making money with. But for the most part, most people work to earn money and then spend that money enjoying the rest of their time. If you were to look at the way you spend money, in fact, Melanie and I did this a while back and we wanted to see what happened and this was before we had two kids. So Jack, where are you and Jackie? Just a little heavier and a lot less good looking, okay? At least me. So Jack, plus 150 pounds and a little bit better tan two years ago. Melanie and I are going over our finances and Fred, we found out we spent $950 in a month eating out and it was just the two of us. We didn't have the kids yet. I mean it was just the two of us and we spent almost a thousand dollars eating out. Now, by eating out, I also mean grabbing a Snickers bar at the 7-Eleven on the way home. Like we categorized every food item that didn't come from the grocery store prepared at home and it was nine hundred and fifty something dollars in a month eating out and we went, well apparently we got it like that. But then we were wondering why we didn't have any money and it dawned on us because that's where it was all going. Now the question is why was it all going there? Because Melanie and I have a philosophy and it's part of why I look the way I look. Eating is recess for adults. Okay? Eating is entertainment. This is why I have such a hard problem losing weight is because food is fun. Food is entertainment and Dustin, because I believe that, that's where the majority of my my, what's the word I was looking for right there, discretionary. Thank you. I was going to say dispensable. I knew that was wrong. Discr- I didn't ask you. I asked the smart one, not the smart mouthed one. Difference. You gotta be able to roll with the punches here on Sunday because you have no idea what these show, especially with Terry and Fred both in the front row. I am a feared for my sermon. No, no, I appreciate it. We're gonna need, we're gonna need a little bit of levity to have this conversation this morning. Right, right. Jack's supposed to be my buffer but we need that, we need a little laughter this morning. But I promise you this, go home this week, go over the way you spend your money and you will see what your true heart's desires are. If the majority of your money is spent on whatever you consider entertainment, for Melanie and I it was going out to eat. We love going out to eat. It was fun. Explore new food items, try new things. That was entertainment for us. You could be in the video game culture and you buy tons of video games. You could be a musician. You ever ask a musician how many guitars he needs? You know what the right answer is? Just one more. Just one more. You ever ask, exactly, can I get a witness please? You ever ask a musician, man, how many guitars you need? Probably one more. One more, do it. But whatever you spend the majority of your money on is where your heart's priorities lie and there is a direct correlation there because Jesus wants to be number one in your heart but in order to do that he should also be reflected as number one in your checkbook. At least we can laugh and then I can say something really tough. Okay, if Jesus is number one in your heart he should be reflected such in your finances. Now am I saying that you must spend 51% of your money on the church? No, that is not what I'm saying. Let's be honest. We all have responsibilities. We all have bills. Several of you are business owners. You have things you have to do with your money. I'm not saying that I want you to start giving 51% of your income to our church. No, what I'm saying is look at the priorities of where you spend. Let's just talk about discretionary income. Lynette, after you deal with bills, after you deal with the car repair, after you deal with with sickness, after you deal with fixing broke wrist, after you deal with everything, the discretionary money that's left, where's it going? Let me ask another really tough question since we're all uncomfortable. Do you have any form of regular giving habit? Now I'm not talking about dollars. I'm not talking about percents. I'm just talking about is giving money to a godly cause a regular habit in your spending? And I'll even go one further. It doesn't even have to be our church. I know people who support missionaries directly. They send money right to a missions organization. They send money to get a bible translated. I'm talking about investing in the kingdom, not just this local branch of it that we call our church. Is giving money in God's kingdom part of your heart? Well let me ask it this way. Do you, please don't raise your hands. Just answer these questions in your head. Do you believe that giving money to God is important? Second question, are you doing that? Because I tell you what, there was a time in my life, even when Mellie and I were married, where we struggled to create a regular giving habit. It was very hard. Number one, we spent way too much money eating out and we've realized, wow I'm spending all that money eating out and then when a missionary comes on a Sunday and I want, I have this desire in my heart, Eric, to support them and help that part of God's ministry but now I don't have the money to. Because see I didn't create the discipline up front that helped my heart be ready to respond. So I don't want to beat that one to death but let's just be honest. Where you spend your money reveals your heart's true concerns. Your third blank this morning, your third blank this morning. More money won't change my faithfulness. Here I'm going to break down somebody's defense that they're probably, someone in this room is probably thinking what I'm about to say. More money won't change my faithfulness. If you are in the gospel of Matthew, I'd like you to turn with me or click to the gospel of Luke. Matthew, Mark, Luke. Luke is the third book in the New Testament. Also one of the only books in the Bible to be written by a non-Jew. So Luke and Acts kind of stand alone in that. Gospel of Luke chapter 16 verse 10. Gospel of Luke chapter 16 verse 10 in the New Living Translation says this, if you are faithful in the little things you will be faithful in large ones but if you are dishonest in the little things you won't be honest with greater responsibility. In your five-minute moments this week I called this the more money defense and it goes something like this. Average pastor is at an average church on an average Sunday and Jenny he's talking about giving and he's trying to encourage people to commit their finances to the Lord and somebody in their mind's going well you know what God that'll be great as soon as I can get that raise that I'm waiting on. As soon as I make just a little bit more money that raise God I'm just going to give it to you and my regular life's not going to change at all. If I just had little more God I would give that to you. Well here's the problem with that logic. If you're not doing it now why would you believe you would do it then? You want to believe it because it makes you feel better. It totally does and I'll give you a witness to that. You want to believe it because it makes you feel better. God if you would give me that raise I would give you so now you're negotiating with God but the fact of the matter is if you do not have the discipline to be faithful in the little that discipline is not going to suddenly show up when you are responsible with more. Discipline must be developed first and then applied. Now there are those few rare people and I will give exception that when they get the raise they stick to their guns and that raise is begins to give God. I'm not saying it can't happen but Nelson I'm just trying to say that nine times out of ten that's not the way it's going to play out. Nine times out of ten if you do not have the discipline of regularly giving to God whatever the amount is you will not suddenly create that discipline when more money comes your way because the reality is we all have thoughts, ideas, wishes, we all have that like bucket list of spending items. You know I like to ask people on the spot you want a million dollars in the lottery today what would you do with it? And just see what people come up with. I think the answers to those questions are hilarious but the reality is Sean if you don't have and I'm not picking on him if you don't have that discipline today you're not going to have that discipline later. Jesus is pretty darn clear. If you're faithful in the little you will be faithful in large. Why? Because Jackie you've developed the discipline and you've illustrated it when you have the little therefore the discipline will carry through when you have more but if you are dishonest and I love the fact that he says that he juxtaposes faithfulness with dishonesty. If you are dishonest in the little things you won't be honest with greater responsibility. The discipline to develop a desire to give to God starts where you are now not the if when day scenario. Do not give yourself the out of the more money excuse because it's a lie. When you get that more money you're going to buy that widget that thing or you're going to go get that subscription that you've been waiting for. You're not just suddenly going to give more to God because if it's not important now it sure enough won't be important then. Insert joke here make everybody feel better. Here's your next blank I don't want to beat that one to death. Stewardship is not ownership. We talk about how does my faith influence the money I spend. Stewardship is not ownership. If you're following along with me we're going to jump back to the gospel of Matthew first gospel in the new testament to chapter 25. So very close towards the end of the gospel of Matthew chapter 25 verse 29. Now to give you a little bit of a break here where we are diane Jesus has just finished teaching the parable of the three servants also called the parable of the talents. Talent not meaning skill or ability like dancing or music but talent was a form of currency in their day. Let me preface or paraphrase the parable for you. Angelina it goes a little like this a man had three servants he's planning to go away on a long trip so he gives some money to each of his servants and asks them to invest that money for them. To servant one he gives 50 bucks to servant two no servant one gets 10 bucks servant two gets 50 bucks and servant three gets 100 bucks just put it in our modern vernacular. Then the master goes away the servants go about their business the master comes home he says where my money and this is the new international bill version of this parable. So the master comes back says guys where's my money servant servant three comes up the guy who was given 100 bucks he says you know what I used your money I made some money with it here's the hundred and a hundred on top of it that I earned awesome good and faithful servant. Second guy comes up you gave me 50 dollars I invested your 50 I made a 50 on top of it here's both awesome last guy comes up 10 dollars he says master I knew that you were a shrewd businessman here's your 10 dollars back I kept it safe but I didn't do anything with it. Jesus then says this to those who use well what they are given even more will be given and they will have an abundance but from those who do nothing even what they have will be taken away. Now we're skating a really thin line here so Jack I want to stand on it. If you use what you have been given and that's really the key here that to those they are given let's be honest everything you have in your life was given to you by God all the way down to the breath that we have in our lungs we are created by God the money that we earn we earn because of his provision and our ability to do whatever it is we do and you're not going to take it with you when you're in this world so really you don't own anything and this is what you really have to get to understand this parable everything you have in your life you are a steward of just like the man with his servants here's a great example does anybody have a teenager who's learning how to drive okay okay great we got a couple so without using any names let's just say random teenager borrows the car to go out so you send them to the store for milk the teenager takes the car and goes to the store for milk while the teenager is driving and without you I should say that without you they're driving your vehicle and you're not there while the teenager is in the car they are in full command of that car they are responsible for that car they are responsible they are responsible for any actions caused by that car good or bad do they own the car no so it is possible to be in control of something to be responsible for something and yet not own it because any of us would agree the parent still owns the car I gave it to my child to let them drive it to show they could be responsible to answer for all that they did with it but at the end of the day it's still my car you are the child and all the money in your life is the car god gave it to you terry you answer for it you're responsible with it you work with it you produce with it but at the end of the day it's not yours it's still his just like when the teenager comes home and hands the keys back to mommy the car goes back to its owner all the money that we have in our lives is simply the car and we are the child that's been entrusted with it now that means amanda you're responsible for it that means you're answerable for your actions with it without being the owner that's being steward being placed in charge of something that you don't own and being responsible for what you do with it that's being steward stewardship does not require ownership the money that god has put in our lives he holds us accountable for without us actually having to own it because let's be honest eric we passed that money on to our children and our children passed it on to their children then perhaps your parents passed it on to you you don't really own it you know why you don't own it because you can't take it with you we started there you're a steward of everything in your life your money your car your house your job your skills your family everything you're only a steward you're the teenager driving the car the question is when you have to hand the keys back to daddy how good of a steward have you been did you use it the way he wanted you to or did you just go out for a joyride going where you wanted to and picking up your friends and doing this and that and then trying to give the car back like oh i did such a good job well you've got nothing to show for it because you took it out for a spin you did what you wanted to do not what daddy wanted you to do stewardship is not ownership you will answer for it but you don't own it that all makes sense your faith has got to transcend your money here's your final blank and i know this message is difficult just know it's not always easy to stand up here and have to preach this to everybody too i must choose god over money this one's tough especially in our country i must choose god over money we're going to jump back to the gospel of luke matthew mark luke third book in the new testament chapter 16 verse 13 jackie why do i have a small window oh i don't okay this is very famous most people whether you go to church or not most people will recognize this verse no one can serve two masters for he will hate one and love the other be devoted to one and despise the other you cannot serve both god and money now a couple things that trip people up about this verse tracy the word hate here does not mean hate like we know it in english like oh i hate her i don't want to see her i won't talk to her i don't want nobody tell me about her because i hate her okay that's the english word hate that is not the that's not the real root word here angelina the word hate means to love less than something else kind of like we would call we like something but we don't love it you see the difference in priority the word hate does not automatically mean disgust it means to like in a lesser capacity or to put it easily there can only be one number one you cannot serve two masters the other thing that people get tripped up i hear the word master diane it does not mean master in the sense of a slave is master to an master to an owner what it means is master in the sense of a boss or a king has decision-making power over an individual not ownership of an individual but clear decision-making authority just like people who might be employed by a landowner would work for the landowner the landowner could make decisions over what happened in his land which directly affects their job but those people are not owned so i don't want you to think that we're talking about like when paul talks about i am a slave to christ he's talking about the actual word slave this is not that what it means is either god or money will make the decisions in your life and you've got to pick one that's really what it means no one can serve two masters meaning no one can have two different people making decisions for them you will either listen to one and not listen to the other or you'll listen to the other and not listen to the first but you cannot have god as priority one and money as priority one in your life you international builders so let me ask over the last 90 days of the way you have made your financial decisions the way you live your life who's been more important not just the way you spend your money how many times have you given yourself an excuse not to go to church but not giving yourself an excuse not to go to work there's priorities how many times have you skipped time in prayer to get to work five minutes early that's priority see now we're talking about real decision making authority over your whole life not just the way you swipe that card or write that check but everything in your life either serves the idol of money or serves god and you cannot do both please do not mistake my sermon this morning for prosperity teaching that is not what i'm saying i'm saying there will be a priority one in your life and it can be god and it can be money but it can't be both and in our minds i think we're all sitting here in church this morning and we all want to believe that god is always number one but is he this is where the rubber really has to meet the road where i need you to do some inner reflection if i asked you to prove that you love god more than money in the decisions of your life over the last month could you do it is there evidence in your life that you could use to argue the case yes i love god more than money and here's why and make a list here are the things i do that place god over the the desire for money the desire to amass money or the desire to spend money see some people earn money to save it and some people earn money to spend it both is still the idol of money you can say well you know i'm always broke i don't worship money no you're always broke because you spend it all i've heard somebody say that i can't worship money i never have any i say but how often do you spend it that's still worshiping money by spending it and then there are other people who worship money by amassing it and they are prideful about how much they have and what this money can do it's both the same idol if god is more important and i think we would all want to say yes god is more important is there evidence in your life that that is truthful or is it what you want your heart but it's not translated to your life see because i'll be honest melvin there was a time in my life where money was more important than god i'll be honest about that i grew up in an awesome american culture a child of the 80s michael jackson mc hammer the whole nine yards and i grew up thinking that even into my adulthood i grew up believing that to be a man you had to go get a good job you had to buy a house provide for your wife and your children make sure you always had enough money for them to have everything that you want now are those bad things no i don't think they're any bad things and most of the young men that i counsel to get ready to get married i tell them get ready to provide because it's a biblical responsibility but it to me it became an idol i can slack on my spiritual life because i can pay the bills i can slack on my spiritual life because i got enough money to take care of my wife and kids i can slack on my spiritual disciplines because i'm a good provider see that still putting the wrong idol in front god has to be priority one in everything the word master here master here means decision maker if god is the master of your life then you are constantly asking the question lord which one of these decisions do you desire me to make you know jack taught me a question a long time ago that has really helped me through a lot of situations god which one of these which if i'm faced with two choices and let's be honest dustin sometime in life the situation is not right and wrong but right and left and there's not a wrong way to go then you got to ask yourself lord which one of these two choices brings you more glory and that's the one i'll do not which one's better for me not which one's more comfortable now which one looks better not which one comes with a better vacation package which one comes with better overtime but if it's truly right and left and not right and wrong lord which one of these glorifies you more that is putting god at that number one priority master position in your life we have to become people whose faith lives monday to saturday with everything that's going on in our culture you've got to know that if the church can't translate from sunday to monday we're going to have a hard time reaching the lost because the rest of the world lives monday to friday parties on saturday and sleeps it off on sunday and goes to work on monday if we can't take our simple faith if we can't take our simple faith that we're growing here in our church community and translate it to a monday through friday life we will miss out on the opportunity and let's be honest we're going to let people go to hell because we didn't stop them because we didn't bring a message of hope and love and forgiveness to the monday through friday world because we got so sunday centric about our faith how does the way you spend your money or how does the your faith influence the way you spend your money i hope that if if you're one of those people and i'm not pointing anybody out that realizes money has been a little more important than god i want you to take a look at your next steps this week so let's take a look at our card you'll notice for my entire message i did not use the word tithe because i didn't want this message to be about the institution of tithing i wanted it to be about your heart and your money in relation to your faith but i do need to talk about tithing for a minute what is tithing i know we have a lot of people that might be newer to faith or coming back to faith the tithe is instituted in the old testament you have to understand in the old testament the levites were not allowed to work they were not allowed to earn because they were set aside for god's purposes so the other 11 tribes would give a tenth of what they had to the temple and that tenth is what the levites lived off of now if anybody's wondering yes the money you give to the church does directly correlate partly into paying my salary as one of the bills of the church just like we pay rent just like we pay for insurance other things so in a sense there's a little bit of that there in our modern day church the tithe is considered 10 of your income giving of 10 of your income that you've been given by god to give it back to him now there's a couple people going bill i know my finances there is no way that i can give 10 of my income today to god okay remember how i started my message i didn't say i needed everybody to be perfect i want everybody to take one step forward so i want to go over these next steps but i just wanted to be clear about what tithing was to say to give a tithe is if you get a hundred dollar check that you're giving 10 of that to god that's what a tithe is and there is a very specific promise in the bible that i want to read to you about tithing it's from the book of malachi which is the last book in the old testament i heard a southern baptist preacher one time accidentally pronounce it as the book of malachi and i thought that was hilarious because i was like i didn't know any italians wrote the bible so the book of malachi or malachi chapter three verse 10 says this bring all the tithes into the storehouse which is where they stored it in the temple so there will be enough food in my temple if you do says the lord of heaven's armies i will notice the if i will if you do i will open the windows of heaven for you i will pour out a blessing so great you will not have enough room to contain it test me that's what he says put me to the test or the older translations test me in this it is one of the few times in the bible where god draws a line in the sand says come get it what i'm not moving it is one of the few promises in the bible where god asks you to test him so when we're talking about money and faith and how should our faith influence the way you spend your money if someone would ask me do i believe that tithing is still accurate i would say yes do i believe that tithing is required in the new testament church and that's a little bit of a different argument because now we got into how did tithing work after jesus rose from the dead jesus spoke about it briefly when he chided the Pharisees the Pharisees would do all these things and he says dan if you were a Pharisee because your beard looks great today you give a tenth of your spices and your dill and your cumin but you ignore the weightier things like character and compassion now as jesus setting aside the tithe no what he was saying is it's a starting point you're doing all these things but you're forgetting character compassion love the character of christ you're giving your money thinking it's going to buy you forgiveness but there's no fruit in your life to show that the holy spirit is working in you so did jesus eradicate the tithe no he did not but since we don't live under the law can i stand up here and tell you that god requires you to give 10% of your income kim no i can't because we don't live under the law we live under grace but if someone would ask me bill where do you think a discipline of giving should start i would go back to a biblical record a discipline of giving would be a regular giving of 10% of your income so that's the first next step i have for you today i will commit to a 90 day tithe challenge that means three months for the next three months i am going to make a statement of faith that i'm going to change the way i give and i'm going to give 10% of my income for 90 days now why did i pick 90 days because angela what i want you to see angelina what i want you to see is god's promise to bless your life i was listening to a radio program this past weekend and a pastor said it this way he said if you believe in an almighty god who created the world and saved you from sin how do you believe in a god who can't make your 90% greater than your 100% and what he meant was is 90 plus the blessing of god is more than 100 without it and god has said test me in this so that's your first next step if you want to commit to 90 days of tithing your income i would like to challenge you to accept that challenge and be committed in it don't just yes i'm going to do ah but you know i got diapers this week trust me been there oh i got formula this week been there oh i didn't get my overtime this week been there i'm saying you're going to make a faith statement and translate your faith into your finances now the second one i will increase my giving to kingdom work you may be sitting in a situation where starting to write 10% of your income to the church every single week is not going to work because the way your bills are set up the responsibilities are set up i'm not here to tell you that you can't so this is what i want to ask you to do take one small step forward from whatever you're doing now now if you are not giving at all and you for some reason do not want to give to our church okay find a missionary to support the american bible society could use your money to help print new bibles for people who don't know jesus there are plenty of ways to put your money to kingdom work i would say yes you could give to our church the place that's trying to help you grow but i'm not going to sit here and say that my entire message this morning was predicated on the idea that you're going to give money to us because then that wouldn't be honoring the true value of these scriptures so here's what you can do if you do not have a regular habit of giving we've got ways for you to do that this is kind of kind of roll into the giving talk as well we've got ways for you to do that you can sign up on our electronic giving console to give at a very specific interval you can give a dollar a month you can give a dollar a week you can set it up and so that it's automated to your debit card and it happens automatically i'll be truthful that is exactly how i have to do it because i never remember to bring money to church even when i was not a pastor i'd have to bring my guitar i have to play on the worship team and then by the time service got over and they were doing the offering i just never remember to bring money to church e-giving is the easiest thing in the world for me but that's because i spend a lot of money electronically we have text giving if you want to give via text we have every method of electronic giving that's currently available with the exception of a physical giving kiosk that you can walk up to outside and if somebody really wants to give that bad i'm sure i'll get the trustees to buy you one like they make them where you can just walk up pull out your debit card and swipe it for us the expense of buying one did not when we have e-giving and tablets and everything else the trustees and i agree with them it's just not worth the money to have to go get one of those so if you're not ready to accept a 90 day 10 challenge then here's my next challenge to you do a little better than you're doing right now if you don't give at all on a regular basis i don't mean like oh i got an extra paycheck this week here you go god that's like emptying your pocket out and just seeing what change falls out and saying god that's what you're worth it's really what it is what i'm saying is creating a regular habit of giving however you want to do it if you want to give two dollars a month but do it steadily that is more discipline than doing the pocket drop okay if you're interested in learning about the electronic giving you can see me i know jack knows a lot about it i don't want to know what you give so if you wanted me to help you sign up for electronic giving it's not going to happen but i know dan knows how to do it i think julie you've used the console before right we've got some people who will help you so do me a favor if you're interested in signing up for electronic giving it's right here under send me info about e-giving i'll have one of the trustees or jack or somebody who knows what they're doing show you how to use it but it makes giving so much easier another really great thing about the electronic giving especially when you sign up for scheduled giving is melissa even if you don't make it to church giving is still a priority because it happens automatically and you'll get an email every single week reminding you hey by the way thanks for giving to christianity church because i know because i get one every single week my gift comes out every sunday morning because that's when i scheduled it some people you may get paid on a different schedule you want to do that so do me a favor if you are not ready to accept a 90 day tie challenge consider this week i'll increase my giving thirdly i would like help building a plan to walk deeper what i want to do is after we get done with this series and we've talked about priorities finances and the other things that are coming if you really want to get serious about how can i do this we'll sit down we'll have a dinner and we'll talk about some real life practicals for each one of these aspects kind of like a one night small group if that's something you want to do you want to get in get your hands dirty roll up your sleeves and change the way you live your faith i want to help you do that i'm ready to help you do that our church has tons of tools to help you do that but you have to let me know that's what you want i will bend over backwards to help you grow spiritually but you have to tell me that's what you want in order for me to be able to help and then you can see there we have our memory verse if i know this is it's really hard to talk about salvation after you've just talked about money for 35 minutes but when we're talking about the fact this is really about money in the way we see our faith you cannot be drawn out of compassion the holy spirit draw you to want to honor god in your finances if you don't have a solid relationship with him so let me say it this way if you do not have a relationship with jesus the majority of what i said was probably irritating to you because i just fall in that category of pastors want your money blah blah blah i hope you don't feel that way about me we can talk about it after church if you do but this all starts growing deeper walking deeper means you're already in the pool eric it means we already started the fact we have a relationship with god and we're talking about how to grow deeper in it if you're not sure whether you're in the pool yet or not let's talk about that first and then we'll talk about walking towards the deep end so if you're here this morning and you don't know if you have a relationship with jesus do me a favor and fill in that bubble that says beginning a life with jesus if you made a faith decision at some random point in your life prior to today but you're not growing like you want to fill in the bubble it says rededicating my life i'm not going to pull you up in front of the church i'm not going to embarrass you but if you can let me know this i'll contact you we'll talk about it and we'll start growing you can see there are other things baptism church membership electronic giving or kind of actually can i have the electronic giving slides as i'm about to go into what's next anyways i didn't see the point in having this message in a separate giving talk it kind of all leads to the same so if you have your smart device with you do me a favor go and to give to c3.org i've done it on my phone i've done it on my tablet i've done on my computer my wife's got an ipad like i have not found an electronic device yet that can't do that but that's our that's a short link that will take you to our electronic giving console you could sign up and set up your own profile there that's how you can do the scheduled e-giving you can do a one-time gift and not have to put anything in here's the difference dustin if you do one time none of your information is saved so you'll have to put in your credit card information the expiration date and all that multiple times if you think you want to try electronic giving set up an account the first time then all you got to do is hit the button put in your password to log in and then you can process a gift anytime you want without having to put in all the credit card information again likewise with the texting you see there that number 239-674-0558 save that number in your phone that is our church's e-giving phone number if you try to call that number it will not answer because it it's just an e-giving portal but nelson if you send a text message to that number it triggers the e-giving console the very first time you do it it texts you back it asks you to put in your credit card information but then it saves it and then anytime you want to give money eric if we had a missionary here and who's from kenya and you wanted to help support him you could grab your phone text the church 20 kenya and you would have just given 20 to support the missionary in kenya it makes that kind of um responsive giving super easy if we're raising money to buy bibles if we're raising money for kids stuff it makes it uber easy to pull out your phone type a text message really quick and stay involved in supporting what the church is doing i use all three e-giving methods actually i have a standard weekly gift that comes out most of you know i have my graphics business i never know when jobs are going to close so when i close a job then i'll text in a gift about that job so i use a multiple of them please look these up know how to use them