Not all worship offered to God is accepted by him Cindy there is actually examples in Scripture where people well-meaning people well-intentioned most of them wanted to worship God and yet God rejected their worship and Diane I believe that if God was capable and exemplified Rejecting worship in the Bible then that probably can still happen today because he is still a God of character So that's what I mean when I say worthless Julie I don't mean that you are worthless as a person Amanda I don't mean you are worthless what I mean is if we are offering worship to God and He is not receiving and he is rejecting it then Dan by definition the worship that we just offered him is Worthless because where do we even get the word worship from it's actually worth ship When you're showing God his worthiness how much he is worth that is worth ship or that is worship So over the next couple of weeks, we're going to examine times when worship was offered to God and God did not Receive it. So that's what I mean by worthless worship now. Do me a favor pull out your connection card I know pastor Jack introduced you to that This is the most important tool we have at C3 because Doug this allows every single person to communicate with me directly I take these cards home. I read them. I look at them. I love them. We process them It's not just attendance and event sign up, but it's prayer requests It's you letting me know how I can better be a pastor to you and your family So pull out your connection card Look at the front make sure your name is on it and then stick it right where it's sticking out of your Bible Or if you're using a digital Bible, just hold it right underneath your iPad We'll get back to it and then the back your bulletin looks a lot like this It's got some blanks and I'm gonna ask you to follow along with me this morning The title this morning's message is right there at the top of your bulletin worthless worship leftovers Today we're gonna talk about Leftovers and Judy I'm not talking about the good kind of leftovers. I love it when Melanie makes fajitas Not only do I super love Melanie's fajita recipe, but Kathy you knows what happens, right? You take all those leftover fajitas the chicken and the peppers and the onions and the sauce and you stick it in the refrigerator Overnight and I'll be darned if those fajitas don't taste better the second day. That's the good kind of leftovers, right? I'm not disparaging fajita leftovers. I'm not But there is such a thing as giving God leftover worship and that's the first kind of worship We're gonna look at this morning If you brought your Bibles whether they be physical or digital go ahead and turn to the book of Genesis We're gonna be in the book of Genesis. It's really easy to find Amanda Genesis is the first book of the Bible So all you got to do is find a table of contents and then go one past that if you're on a digital Bible Just look for the word that starts GEN. There's no other book in Bible. It starts GEN Worship is the most volatile element in the modern-day church. There is even a term that's been coined called worship wars Whole wars have been fought inside churches and inside denominations over the divisive nature of music in a church service In fact, you probably may not realize how divisive it is. But think about this How many times when you see church services advertised? Is there any form of descriptive word that describes the style of musical worship? You could see a church sign. And what does it say? traditional contemporary Pentecostal modern Blended my miss am I missing a really big one Jack? I think that's most of the big ones We even have terms now so that Kathy on your way in the door You can have an expectation of the kind of music that'll be in church Sadly, the word music has eclipsed the word worship to where in our modern-day church There almost isn't any form of worship other than music and Diane that's really sad because there's tons of worship in the Bible Yes musical worship exists in the Bible David one of the great psalm writers He encourages us to worship God in music but Tracy we should be worshiping God in more than just music most of the squabble and infighting and arguing that takes place today over worship is because of the worship that We want I want contemporary worship. Of course I do. I'm a guitar player I don't have any place in a traditional church because they won't let me play guitar. I can't even go to my parents church I got to leave my legs guitar at home. They might let me play my acoustic guitar Maybe if it's a good if I finger pick and it's Christmas, I don't know And play Christmas carols, you know So Music in church is a very divisive thing But I want you to get past that and really what is worship worship is giving an offering to the Lord, right? In the Old Testament, they brought physical sacrifices. We even today we worship God and giving which will happen later in the service We worship God in that way, but worship in its very nature is offering something to God So do me a favor and turn to Genesis chapter 4 and we're going to read verses 1 through 7 a very infamous pair of brothers Cain and Abel so this is Genesis chapter 4 verses 1 through 7 and we'll be reading it on the screen in the new living Translation so check this out Now Adam had sexual relations with his wife Eve and she became pregnant When she gave birth to Cain, she said with the Lord's help I have produced a man We'll talk about why she was excited about that in a minute later She gave birth to his brother and named him Abel when they grew up Abel became a shepherd and Cain cultivated the ground when it was time for the harvest came presented some of his crops as a gift to the Lord and Abel also brought a gift the best portions of the firstborn lambs from his flock The Lord accepted Abel and his gift, but he did not Accept Cain and his gift this main Cain very angry and he looked dejected Why are you so angry the Lord asked Cain Lord asked Cain? Why do you look so dejected? You will be accepted if you do what is right But if you refuse to do what is right then watch out sin is crouching at your door Eager to control you but you must subdue it and be its master Now I know the story of Cain and Abel is infamous because of the homicide that is about to happen in this story But what I want to focus on this morning Mike is everything that happened leading up to that homicide The homicide was because of the anger at the end of this so Let me give you your first blank and then we'll get it right into it your first blank this morning is There must be time to worship There must be time To worship In Genesis chapter 4 3a or the beginning of verse 3 it said when it was time For the harvest when it was time for the harvest in John chapter 4 when Jesus is having this Conversation with the woman at the well Tuesday night Bible study We've looked at that one before the sidecar woman Jesus says a time is coming now Is that time when what when the father? What he wants those who will worship him in spirit and in truth and the father even seeks those who will worship him We have to start out understanding this Doug. We have to make time For worship now we will get into why did the Lord ultimately reject Cain's offering? But I want you to really see the story starts here when it was time for the harvest now keep in mind What is Cain's occupation? Farmer that's right. We'll call a farmer gardener. He grows crops Abel was the shepherd Cain was the farmer So Terry put yourself in that farmer mentality for a minute Harvest is a big deal Harvest time is a big deal. It's a time of a lot of work Yes, but it's also a time where you receive the blessing that the Lord has provided you Kathy if you and I were in an agrarian culture today, we would spend the majority of our year getting ready for harvest You're tilling up the ground then you're planting the seeds. You're adding the fertilizer. You're holding back the weeds at a certain point It's like hurry up and wait because the crops have to come and they have to come to fruition So what do we do in that time? That's when we're back building our carts and how are we gonna get the food to market and you you're establishing those relationships The cycle never stops but everything culminates at that one word right there Harvest this is where the entire story is framed Julie if we were on a Tuesday night, that would be the when of whens right there When is this story taking place at the time of harvest Dan if Cain is a farmer? He works the ground for a living he has worked up into this point and it's only when you get to the time of harvest That the Lord's blessing when your work is revealed You know those of you who may know this Dan works with wood for a living. How is that? It's like the world's worst understatement of what you do. He is He's a cabinet maker and he makes cabinets from scratch So Dan you still work with your hands today and you have different seasons that you go through in your job You have to price the job. You have to bid out the job, which is preparation Then you have to go ahead and you have to order the the lumber the parts. You've got to then prepare for it You've got to build it you doing all the same steps, but what's the fun part? The fun part is getting paid the fun part is receiving the blessing for all the work you've done That's harvest. That's where this entire story starts is The time of blessing Cain has worked and he's killed the ground and now it's time to worship up until this point Amanda It's been time to go to work. It's been time to get ready to receive the Lord's blessing The first thing you have to understand about leftover worship is Judy there must be time for worship in your life If not, it's not that you're too busy. It's your that your priorities are wrong Time management is no more than priority management You know why because we all have the same amount of time. We all get 60 minutes to the hour We all get 24 hours to the day and we all get eight and a half days a week, right? I'm just making sure everybody's still with me on the math Okay, everybody gets 24 hours a day everybody gets seven days a week everybody gets 365 and one quarter days a year Time management is priority management You have time for the things that matter in your life And if you want to know what matters to you Cindy just sit down and look at the last week of your life The things that you made the priority in your life are the things that control your time It was time for Cain to worship and he did so by collecting that food at the harvest time and then Bringing some to God Terry there has to be time for worship in your life And I'll go ahead and get on my soapbox for a minute. There better be more time than just Sunday morning Huge soapbox for me people only worship God on Sundays at church and that's a problem Nelson you should be worshiping God every day in your personal life the value strength or depth of church Worship as a collective Mike is only the collaborative ability for us to worship God ourselves The more you worship God in your daily life the more you will get out of worshiping God with your friends here at church We cannot worship enough for you It's got to be you Judy you've got to have time in your daily life where you worship God for the blessings that he's given you Sometimes those blessings can also be a burden. I know Terry works for a living He works very hard. I went to work with him a couple days ago. Trust me the man sweats for a living So sometimes getting a new job whilst it could be a blessing. It's a burden on the way in You've got to make time if all we give God our leftovers. We are insulting his majesty Cain made time to worship and here's the thing we learned in John chapter 4 God is seeking those who will worship him Jack he's still doing that today He still is looking out for people who will take the time to worship him the way he deserves So let's make time your second blank this morning Worship can be different Worship can be different now. I'm gonna step on everybody's toes Take a look at Genesis chapter 4 3b and 4 or the latter half of verse 3 and verse 4 says this Cain presented some of his crops as a gift to the Lord Abel also brought a gift the best portions of his firstborn lamps from his flock I know this seems really obvious, but Terry they didn't bring the same thing to God Okay, they didn't bring the same worship if you were to hand select Five churches that are currently going on right now and you were to put the way the services the way the music is and everything Together, I think what you would realize is Glenn and we all don't worship the same way Now most of the time in America the service is gonna follow a very predictable pattern You're gonna show up and there's gonna be some music somewhere. There's gonna be some announcements. Probably somebody's gonna talk There may be an altar call. There might be a connection card. Everybody's gonna go out to lunch That's like the typical Sunday morning experience here in America and I don't have a problem with that But when we get together Dan when you come here to our our house of the Lord right now We've converted this dance studio into our sanctuary What you bring in the door with you is different from what Jack brings even if we're singing the same songs What you bring in your heart Diane your week your struggles your trials, you know last week we talked about your story Your story comes with you to worship on Sundays and what you've been through and the struggles the trials The blessings the triumphs all Kathy all of that comes together and that's you and that's what you bring to the Lord What I want you to see here. We'll talk about how they're Ultra same and ultra different in a minute. But what I want you to see is Kane presented some of His crops Terry. He brought the fruit of his life He brought the work of his hands. He brought himself to bear when he came to worship He didn't go and just find what he thought God wanted most and bought that to bring it to church He brought himself now likewise with Abel Abel also brought a gift the best portions of the first born lambs of his flock Glenna Abel brought himself and his work and the fruit of his labors Abel was a shepherd So he brought one of his sheep to God Kane was the farmer He brought some of his crops to God what I want you to see is right here Both of them are equal Julie. They brought themselves They brought an offering that Amanda reflected their life The work of their hands and most importantly it reflects what they spent their time on Kane's a farmer bringing in the crops says here Lord I'm worshipping you with everything that I am with the time that I've spent doing this with the resources whether they be monetary or time Or work whatever it is Lord. I'm bringing you me You've ever thought about the fact that's what giving to the Lord really is. Yes. We have multiple forms of being able to collect money today We've got electronic giving we've got text giving but Dan at its base principle. What is the dollar? The dollar represents however long it took you to earn it We still bring ourselves today both in the the vocal worship that we do and the monetary worship We do Sean when you give to the Lord you're giving you you're giving that time that you spent earning that money You're giving what you could have spent that money on that you chose to give it to God and said you are giving You and it's different It doesn't have to be the same Amanda what you give to God is going to be vastly different from what your dad gives even though You're related because you're giving you and that's totally okay Which basically means I just preach the last the next point. So do me a favor write this down Worship is a personal act. I got a bit of my head of myself because I'm super excited about that point Worship is a personal act Eric what you bring to God is what you bring and what Angelina brings to God is what she brings and there's no Expectation that you have to worship her way or she has to worship your way because you're not the same person. It's personal It's different and it's meant to be that way Think about it this way if we all had to worship God the same exact way Then Mike only one of us would be really good at it if There was this perfect box and shape and everything else that you had to fit into Then God would only receive worship from the one person that that was their actual shape and the rest of us will be left out in the cold Take a look at this Genesis chapter 4 to be all the way through 4a When they grew up Abel became a shepherd while Cain cultivated the ground when it was time for the harvest the time to receive the blessing Cain presented some of his crops and Abel also brought a gift. They brought themselves to bear I think I sort of beat that one to death Though they worship the Lord in different ways Both of them brought the fruit of their personal life as their point of offering and at this point both Professions and offerings are morally equal They brought the personal fruit of their own life They didn't staff it out phone it in or buy some replacement to give to God. They brought an offering of Themselves now. Here's the next point. This is where everybody's gonna really be upset with me. There is unacceptable worship There is such a thing as Unacceptable worship and I know that's not popular to say today It's so Jackie it's so much more politically correct to just say oh Well, you know you just bring to God whatever you can whatever you want to and and God will receive it. No Like Doug, I don't mean to be offensive here But when did we become in charge of what God deserves? When did he staff that out to humanity for humanity to decide how worthy God is Who got the memo that we're in charge of choosing how holy God is or how sovereign God is Take a look at this Genesis chapter 4b 4b to 5a for 4b to 5a the Lord accepted Abel in his gift, but he did not accept Cain and his gift That is probably the most sobering statement of everything I've had to study so far to prepare for this series Because Judy the next question that follows is am I Cain or am I Abel? You know Stacey is the Lord is the Lord rejecting my gifts because I'm not bringing them the right way Did I not do the right like I really had to get introspective and go? Whoa, whoa Diane which one am I am I the person that the Lord is receiving my way? Or am I the person that the Lord is ultimately Rejecting and not receiving my worship there seems to be a common thought in the church today That however we choose to worship God will be acceptable that we are the ones in control of and therefore should define What is and is not acceptable about worship whether it's the music the service schedule or the sermon We think we get to decide how to worship God and we're wrong And we're wrong we don't decide how worthy he is we don't decide how powerful So I'm sure you're all sitting here and you're wondering why was Cain's offering rejected Let me let me give you this next point and then we're gonna get into it in depth. So here's here's the point sin impedes intimate worship sin Impedes intimate worship Genesis chapter 4 verse 7 God makes it very clear You will be accepted if you do what is right But if you refuse to do what is right then watch out Sin is crouching at your door and eager to control you But you must subdue it and be its master so let's talk about why was Cain's offering rejected the common thought It's wrong, but i'll give it to you first the common thought is Cain's offering was rejected because he didn't bring an animal sacrifice Abel was the shepherd so he brought the best portions of the firstborn lamb and and that sounds really great You know dan I tell you all the time there's stuff in the bible man. It'll preach good And if cain had just brought the lamb and sacrificed the blood God would have been no and and that would preach really great and we could totally rock that out, but it's totally wrong And Kathy, do you know how I know it's wrong? Go further into the law God makes provisions for fruit offerings and grain offerings and drink offerings God makes clear provisions for offerings that are of a non-animal nature The other problem with the cain's offering being rejected because it's not a blood sacrifice is we're not talking about a sin offering at all The whole point of the blood sacrifice is what terry that the shedding of blood brings the forgiveness of sin nowhere in this story Does it say we're talking about a sin offering? They're worshiping god at the harvest and they're worshiping him for his blessings So a fruit or grain offering would have been completely acceptable to exclude the fact that the law doesn't even exist yet We're in genesis chapter four Moses hasn't happened yet. The red sea hasn't happened yet. Mount sinai hasn't happened yet. Does that mean god's character is different? No, it does not but there's no requirement for cain's offering to need to be the blood sacrifice So jack let's rule that out now why is cain's offering not seen as correct Jackie do me a favor Go all the way back to The revival verse it's right after a personal act. It's genesis chapter four verse 2b to 4a When they grew up abel became a shepherd while cain cultivated the ground we covered that when it was time for the harvest cain presented some Of his crops as a gift to the lord and able also brought a gift and then look at the level of description of abel's gift What do you see here is the major difference? some ish I brought an offering ish I go to church ish You know what cain's sin was at its base principle ray cain's sin was laziness He did not have the internal fortitude or the desire to worship god and bring his best he brought some Whatever Yeah, here god, you know what? Here's some crops As opposed to abel that said lord, I am so thankful for your blessing I want to give you the best that I have I want you to be priority one And i'm going to show you that priority one placement by giving you the best Portions of the firstborn lambs of the flock Of course, you know if you read on in the old testament firstborn is a big thing Firstborn had a lot of weight Abel brought the best gift possible cain brought Whatever was left over Whatever was let me say it this way amanda Abel brought the best possible cain brought what was ever available After he took everything he wanted first That's the laziness. That's the pride that got in there dan cain said, you know what? This is exactly what and i'm going to use a modern-day example. So don't get offended. I'm gonna use a monitor. This is exactly what it's like Okay Yeah, I got a dollar left over from dinner last night. Here you go That's cain That is exactly what cain did. He said you know what god i'm not going to make you a priority I'm not going to make you a priority. I'm not going to put it first. I'm not going to give you my best I'm going to give you whatever's left over some Cain's offering was not rejected because it was it wasn't an animal cain's offering was rejected because he didn't give god his best He gave god the leftovers Which is why I titled this message that way God can and will reject worship That does not make him priority one So and let's bring it into a modern-day context. What is priority one in our life? Well, I think priority one starts with time management Do you have time to worship god? Or let me say it better tracy. Do you make time? To worship god the whole story started with time. It was time at the harvest Do we make time to worship god or is god merely a third party player a uh, A watcher of our life Is god watching your life unfold in the heavenly version of youtube or is god actually an intimate involved player? in your story If the only time you worship god is on sundays your cain not able Ouch, I know that hurts This the next couple of weeks is going to be very real because you know what? I don't want judy I don't want your worship to be rejected by god I don't want to stand up here and try to lead you as a congregation in a way that would cause our whole collective worship to be rejected by god The number one thing that will cause god to reject your worship is if it's not a priority If it's not a priority in your time If it's not a priority in your heart I know our life is incredibly busy some of us a little more than others, but we live in a busy country Even a busy country Our lives dominated by this and that and the next thing Do you have the time to slow down? And worship god for the blessings in your life Nelson, I know you huff it a lot Especially this season barbershops are busy Are you stopping in in somewhere in your week whether it's driving to work whether it's when you're getting in your car after you've Closed down the shop. Are you stopping and praying and thanking god for what is going on in your life? If not your cane We must make time to make god a priority If not, then unfortunately all the worship we give is lazy leftovers Cain's sin was one of laziness. He only brought some of his fruits while abel bought brought the best First fruits that he could to the lord abel made worship a priority while cain only made worship Unnecessary when I get to it when it's available if I get up on time on sunday, that stings Well, you know why people don't get up on time on sunday because god wasn't a priority on saturday If god was a priority on saturday night getting up for church on sunday wouldn't be so hard That's priority. I know that stings a little bit, but that's priority We get to the point in the service where jack has to has to take up the offering and you gotta go Well, do I have any money left over? You know why because giving god an offering wasn't a priority When you were ordering the pizza or Guilty going to starbucks or you know fill in the blank with whatever it is Don't have god reject your worship because you did not make him a priority That's a tough one and and i'll be honest. It's something i've wrestled with this week Do I truly make god a priority or do I get away with it because it's my job? You know mike I got to spend a certain amount of hours in the bible because I got to get ready for sunday So do I get off scott free because I spend more time in the bible than everybody else Is this going to be holy by comparison now? We're guilty by association depending on which way you look at it No I want you to just sit here for a minute close your eyes and review the last seven days of your life And answer one simple question Are you cain? Or are you able? Over the last seven days, what does the truth of your life reveal? After you've picked yourself up off the floor of your own brain do me a favor and pick up your connection card I know this is a tough truth, but I want it to be a very realistic thing I want us to all get better at worshiping god the way he deserves to be worshiped The top left portion of your connection card you see it says my next step today Sean this is a great week to take a next step and get worship involved in your life So here's your first next step this week. I will evaluate what worship I have been offering Kathy before you can begin to change You should probably take a look at where you're at because maybe everything doesn't need to change just over here Or a small tweak over here. Here's dan's favorite word tweak tweak tweak. Just keep tweaking it until the job's right Okay This week I will evaluate what worship I have been offering number two this week. I will commit to attend church more regularly That's one thing This week I will I will attend church more regularly You cannot tell me god is a priority if being a part of his family is not I'm sorry The bible is very clear We are all part of one body And you know what good is the eyes without the ears and what good is the ears without the toenails and so on and so forth We are all only one part of the body. We require everyone else for our health One of the easiest ways you can begin to make god a priority is attending church more regularly Three, please contact me about creating a personal worship routine cindy We've called it a lot of things over the years a quiet time. Maybe that's a term that's familiar to you Do you have a quiet time every day? Well, I have to be honest if i'm in the car and i'm listening to worship music. It's not generally quiet So, you know, do you have time that's set aside for you and god I just call it a personal worship routine is taking time to spend with god part of your routine And then the last one this week. I will memorize genesis chapter four Versus four and five I want you to leave today no longer being cain Terry I want you not just you but the collective you to leave today considering how I can make god a greater priority in my life You can see on the right side. We've got the upcoming events gentlemen. We're going paintballing saturday april the 18th Please mark it on your calendars. If you have a young man or a man in your life who you think might have an interest in coming Please Invite him. I have no problem with that. This is a fun get to know each other kind of event So gentlemen if you have a friend that maybe they don't go to church But they might you know come if you give me the opportunity to shoot at you with a gun I think that'd be kind of fun Just just be wary. I'm going to shoot every single person I can okay Just going to absolutely do a haymaker But if you have any young men who are interested or ladies Maybe you have a young man in your life who doesn't attend church Send them let us spend a couple hours with them. See if maybe that might open up some opportunity everybody Everybody guys love shooting things. It's just it's like a genetic thing Also easter invite list. I know I talked about it last week What I want to do is capitalize on something that's going to happen next month Easter sunday is statistically the most attended sunday of the year every year More people go to church on easter sunday than any other sunday of the year You may have a few friends they go to church on easter and christmas. Well, here's the big secret terry Christmas can always be on a different day of the week. Sometimes christmas is a tuesday. Sometimes christmas is thursday amanda Easter is always a stinking sunday It's always sunday morning so that's why Most pastors if you ask them when it's national go to church day They're going to tell you it's easter sunday because more people are going to go to church on easter sunday diane I want to capitalize on that that momentum that exists in our culture And I want to create an invite list of who you're going to invite to come to church on easter And I want to pray for those people I want us as a church to begin to pray that people who may not normally go to church We'll come to church on easter and they'll get to know jesus because that's really what we're here for right? It's not just to have a good time And listen to the the good-looking but overweight pastor. I know that okay. That's not all that church is about I want to see somebody come to jesus on sunday morning And if all I ever get to do is talk to people who already know jesus We covered that in contagious then you're not doing a good job of evangelism So do me a favor if you have somebody that you want to invite put their name down here so we can pray for them So the holy spirit can begin working on their hearts and drawing someone to church You can also see there on the very bottom of the page there are several places that you can step up I have a need this week, so i'm gonna say it Four of the five members who set up everything that you currently see Are going to be gone this coming weekend I need help saturday night Helping to turn all of this into what it is right now Because we have five people on our saturday night setup team and four of them are going to be gone this coming weekend So if you can help Do me a favor at the very bottom of the connection card. It's in the middle It says i'm interested in serving in setup team. Do me a favor fill in that bubble And what I will do is I will contact you Big master ray over here is the only veteran who's going to be here on saturday night Ray is going to have to help us. You know, i'll be honest. I don't even know everything that happens on saturday night I could do this part. You know me and eric we can we can I can do the geek part I can make the tv and the speakers work But as far as how they set up everything, I don't even know but mr Ray knows and I cannot have me and ray doing it by myself So please if you are available saturday evening ray, what time is normally is set up? About 6 30 in the evening About 6 30 in the evening So early enough you can either do an early dinner or later dinner But 6 30 on saturday if you're able to be here, please sign up ray and I are going to need some help making church happen next weekend Other than that, we do have a couple openings on the greeting team. I really want to have a nice Full greeting team for easter because there's gonna be a lot of people here So even if just easter sunday you want to come a little early Smile hand out a bulletin show off your new easter clothes. That's totally fine with me All right, so church, please do me a favor take a look at the back of your connector card other than that Pastor jack you're up, sir