This morning we are going to continue with our Pillars series. And if you have not been here for all of what Pillars is, Pillars is our look at some very old, but no less foundational teachings from Christianity. Back in the 1600s there was this little thing that happened called the Protestant Reformation. And the Protestants broke away from the Catholic Church because of, there were some teachings that were going on that were counter to the Bible. The Catholic Church had built up some traditions and they had done some things. And so a group of people, Martin Luther being probably the most famous from that name, Martin Luther, he went there, he studied, he read the Bible, he went, wait a minute, what we're teaching in church doesn't match what I'm reading. And they started this whole breakaway. And there are really five main themes that sort of were born out of that time. And they are called the Five Solas, S-O-L-A, because sola in Latin means only. And so we've looked at the fact that we're saved by God's grace alone. We looked at the fact that we're saved in the name of Christ alone. We looked at the fact that we're saved by faith alone. And if you'll look at the back of your bulletin, you'll see what this morning's message is going to be. It's entitled Pillars Sola Scriptura. Nelson, this is probably the only time you're ever going to see me put Latin on the back of our bulletins, because I don't know a whole lot of Latin. But I know Sola Scriptura. And what Sola Scriptura means, if you haven't figured it out, is by scripture alone. Or to put it in a simple sentence, Miss Diane, it means scripture alone is our authority for life. Put that simple English, Dan. Scripture alone is our authority for life. That's what we're going to talk about this morning. But each message in this Pillars series begins with a key thought. And so here's the key thought this morning. A healthy Christian life is guarded and guided by a firm foundation. A healthy Christian life is guarded and guided by a firm foundation. Fred, this is what they laid down coming out of the Reformation. That we should guard the way we live by having a firm foundation of what we understand from the Bible. And it is guarded from things like heresy, wrong teaching. You know, we talk about that on our Tuesday night Bible studies. A lot of times people so misinterpret scripture, and they come out with these teachings that are way over here in left field, because they're not guarding their life by good teaching. And then our life should also be guided, how we make new decisions, Selena, should be informed by what we believe and how our faith walks it out. So this morning we're talking about sola scriptura, or if you want to put in your notes, a simple sentence, scripture alone is our authority for life. That is what sola scriptura really means. And you'll see on the back of your bulletin, I've got some blanks because I'm going to ask you to follow along with me this morning, as I try to show you, now what we're going to look at this morning is not the only verse, I mean, Sevalis, the Bible is full of knowledge. I picked five passages that truly embody sola scriptura, but there are many more. So I don't want to give you the idea that these are the only five that we use to build this doctrine on, but I've got five things I want you to see this morning about the Word of God. So here's your first blank. Why is scripture alone our authority for life? Your first blank, because it is the literal Word of God. Because it is the literal Word of God. And if you brought your Bibles with you this morning, whether they be physical or digital, turn with me to 2 Timothy, that'll be right after 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, Chapter 3, and we're going to look at verses 16 and 17. Any of you who have spent any time studying the Bible or perhaps maybe have gone to Bible college or gone to a Bible class, Diane, this is where we always start. 1 Timothy, Chapter 3, verses 16 and 17, this is the new international version. All scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting, and training in righteousness, so that the servant of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work. See, even the baby agrees with me. All scripture is, I should probably say this, we are a family church. So just sort of focus past the babies and the family because that's who we are, and that doesn't bother me one bit. If I get sidetracked, forgive me, babies are cute. All scripture is God-breathed. Now your translation may say all scripture is inspired by God, so let's talk about that first. If you have a translation that says all scripture is inspired by God, it does not mean like today's word inspired Jackie, we inspired a movie, or the life that inspired a book. Just recently watched Million Dollar Arm. It was about the first baseball players that came out of India. They took cricket players and turned them into baseball pitchers. Cool movie, super loved it, and it's a true story, inspired by the life of a man. That is not what the word inspired means when we talk about the biblical use of the term. Remember the Bible wasn't originally written in English, it was written in Greek and Hebrew, and we're looking at an English translation of what that means. That's why I really like the way the NIV has it here. All scripture is God-breathed. That is more literal to what the Greek word inspiration really meant. Dan, it means that all scripture is God-breathed, or spoken, or God's word. We call the Bible the word of God for a reason. So all scripture is God's word, and we could have pretty much stopped there. Why is scripture the authority for our life, well, Ms. Winifred, because all scripture is God's word. We could have stopped there, but Paul doesn't. Paul continues on, he says this, and is useful. I love that word Jackie there, and it's useful. And he gives us four things it's useful for. Teaching, rebuking, correcting, and training in righteousness. Now I have a lot of people who, most people on my Facebook page, they all know what I do for a living. They all know I'm a pastor, they all know I'm a geek. But I have a lot of friends on Facebook and in the real world who aren't Christians. I have friends who are atheists, I have friends who are gay, I have friends who are agnostic, I have friends who don't even know if they are religious at all. And so I find myself at times, Glenna, getting into some really weighty waters when somebody makes this random theological statement, and they don't quite understand the gravity of what they're saying. They're just saying it like on the face, on the surface level. They're not thinking five layers deep about if you took that and you walked that idea out, it would end up way over here in left field. And I know you, I know you don't think this, but you don't realize that this connects to this. And one of those kinds of statements was somebody told me one time, well, I don't like the Bible because it always tells me what to do. Tracy, I don't like your Bible because I feel like it's always telling me what to do. Do this, don't do that. Thou shalt, thou shalt not. If I want a book of rules, I'll go to the DMV. Blah, blah, blah. I don't like your Bible. And Dan, you know what? I'll be honest. I don't like being told what to do. But I turned to this passage and I said, Terry, let's look at this. Yes, the Bible does instruct us for life. It tells us certain things we should do and it does tell us certain things we shouldn't do. But the question should be why? The question shouldn't just be do, don't, do, don't. But why? And I turned to my friend and I said, listen, if you were an Olympic athlete, somebody give me an Olympic sport, anything, doesn't really matter. Hockey. Okay, hockey was the first thing out there. Figure skating, they're both on the ice. Would you expect an Olympic athlete to just be good naturally with no training? Would you expect them not to have a regiment, Dustin, that they follow? Maybe even dietary parameters, exercise parameters, weight lifting parameters, time that they learn their craft, time that they learn the plays in hockey. They have to learn the choreography for, what did you say, figure skating. I almost said ice dancing, they're really close. Figure skating. What I don't understand is this, Tracy, people want to tell me they don't like the Bible because it's a book of rules, but they don't realize it's not just a book of rules, it's a training manual. Look at what he says here. He says useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting, and then training. The reason the Word of God should be the sole authority of our life, is the only book written by God to train you to live. When the Word of God says don't do this, it's not because God had a hissy fit and said, Fred, I know you really like this, so I'm going to tell you you can't, neenier, neenier. That was not God's heart behind why he wrote his word. God wrote a training manual for our benefit, for our betterment, for our future, not just on this earth, but our future eternally is based on the idea that God and God alone wants to train us. And then look at the end of this verse here. So that the servant of God, that would be any of us, may be thoroughly equipped for every good work. Dan, I know you and Judy like to go camping a lot. Do you ever go camping without planning ahead? No, I've been camping with this man. This man is planned for everything. He pulls, his RV pulls in and in 30 minutes we've got a roof and deck chairs and like lamps and he's got a blender. I mean, this man knows how to camp. But that didn't happen by accident. That didn't happen by accident. You were equipped and you did a good job or AKA had a great vacation because you were equipped for it. The whole reason the word of God should be our authority for life is it is purpose in training us is to equip us. It is not a man-made self-help book. It is a God-made training manual. That's your first reason. Here's your second reason. Why should the Bible be our authority for living? We'll take a look at this. Because it will last forever. Because it will last forever. Now this one seems sort of obvious, but I'm going to now build on my first point. Take a look at this passage. If you're in, Timothy, turn a little bit more towards the back of your Bible. We want to go to 1 Peter chapter 1 verses 24 and 25. So this is 1 Peter chapter 1 verses 24, 25. And this is the new century version. This is a very modern translation. It reads really nice in English. All people are like the grass. All their glory is like the flowers of the field. The grass dies and the flowers fall, but the word of the Lord will live forever. Some of you, some of you grew up in church like me. You made me more familiar with the grass withers and the flower fades. I love the way the grass withers, flower fades. But I love the way the NCV really brings out the purpose behind the grass and behind the flower. Tracy, from God's perspective, human life is like a blade of grass in God's everlasting nature. Our life here on earth is so fleeting. You know, as a human being, we may live from anywhere from 80 to like a hundred and something years. My grandmother just celebrated her 89th birthday. Trying to remember. I think it's 89. I don't think she's into the 90s yet. My grandmother just celebrated her 89th birthday this year. I got to see her about like a week or two after her birthday, and we went out to one of her favorite restaurants. And my grandmother is starting just in the beginning stages of starting to have some memory challenges. And so a lot of times when we go out to dinner, I'll get to hear the same couple stories over and over. And you know what? It's durable. I love it. She's my grandmother. She could tell me the same story every single night at dinner, and I'm going to laugh at the punchline every time. And I mean, because because because this is my grandma, because she was there when I was a baby. Not to be overly emotional, but most of you know, my mother died when I was a younger child. It was my grandmother that was one who told me when I was a kid. And then she carried me through all of that. So I'd love being a part of my grandmother's life. But even at 89 years old, in comparison to the breadth of God's everlasting nature, human life is so small, it's so fleeting. Winifred, we only get a certain amount of years to make a difference. And that's why our life is like grass. And then he goes on further and all of their glory, the collective glory of mankind. Dan, your life is like a blade of grass. And any achievements that you or Judy might accomplish in your life, that's like flowers in the field in which you live. But remember, to us, a single blade of grass or a single flower will watch it grow up and we'll watch it fade away. We'll watch it multiple seasons, even plant flowers that will come back every season. And you get to see them bloom and then you get to see them wilt away again. You get to see them bloom. This is God's perspective on us. But there is one thing that does not change. The grass dies and the flowers fall, but the Word of God will last forever. Why? Julie, why does the Word of God last forever? Because the Word of God was spoken by the only being in existence who also lasts forever. That's why we had to start with the Bible as the Word of God. Because now because it's the Word of God, Terry, now we go to the next step. Because God's nature is omnipresent and everlasting, so is His Word. It'd be one thing for someone to write a book and it's really popular when they're living. Or in a lot of cases, their writing becomes popular after they've deceased. But eventually they fade away. Even some of the most well-respected minds of all of human culture, Socrates, for instance. In college, people still study Socrates. He lived a really long time ago. But we don't pretty much study anybody from ancient history. Why? Because their writings are gone. They didn't stand the test of time. The Word of God has stood ever since it has been spoken. If you want an example of that, just look at creation. Terry, how did God create everything that we know? That's right. He spoke it into existence. God said, let there be light. And there was light. God's Word is everlasting. And because it is everlasting, Julie, it will never go out of style in our life. What I think is also really cool is God's Word can speak truth to me in my teen years that I needed to hear. And then, Glenna, in my twenties that I needed to hear. And in my thirties that I needed to hear. And I haven't made it to my forties yet, but I'm pretty darn sure God's Word is still going to be true when I get there. And when my kids get married and when my kids start having kids, I'm sure the Word of God will still stand true when I get to those future seasons in my life. So that's the second reason why I believe God's Word is our sole authority. Here's your third one. Why is God's Word the sole authority for our life? Because it can divide the spiritual from the physical. Because it can divide the spiritual from the physical. Here's one of my favorite Bible verses in the Bible talking about itself. The book of Hebrews, Titus, Philemon, Hebrews, James. So it's right there about two-thirds through the New Testament. Hebrews chapter 4, this is verse 12. This is the New Living translation. This is the one I read at home. I really, really like the way it bears out the English language. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 12, in the New Living says this. For the Word of God is alive and powerful. It is sharper than the sharpest two-edged sword, cutting between soul and spirit, between joint and marrow. It exposes our innermost thoughts and desires. Why should the Word of God be the sole authority for our life, Terry? Because by its very nature, the Word of God has the ability to cleave and cut truth where no other word can. The Word of God is the only authority that has authority over spiritual things. Because God has authority over spiritual things. However, I love the way it says here, soul and spirit, between joint and marrow. So you get two pairs, right? Over here I've got soul and spirit. Those are both of a spiritual nature. And I have joint and marrow. Those are both of a physical nature. The Word of God has the authority to govern both aspects of your life. If you were to go get a man-made self-help book, whilst I read, I like to read. I don't read well, but I like to read. Let me say it that way. It takes me a long time to really digest something. But I read books to help myself. I struggle with getting frustrated a lot. I get frustrated very quickly. I get angry very quickly. I grew up in what I call the angry man syndrome. I grew up in my biological father's primary response to stress and struggle is strength. That strength was almost always portrayed in a masculine and sometimes violent manner. Not abusive, but you know what I mean. Controlling, loud, screaming, banging, like masculine Spartan type stuff. And so I grew up, my primary example of manhood, Fred, is when you want to get something done, you make it done. That was my example. When you want something done, you make it done. And as a man, you have the capability. And I grew up to be a pretty big dude. I've got a big frame. I carry a lot of strength. And now I'm a parent. And I have a five-year-old and a two-year-old. And the strength doesn't help me a dirt bit. You can't make. Like you can't make. I can't figure out how I can make Micah figure out he's not supposed to throw spaghetti at his two-year-old sister. And it doesn't matter how much strength I have. It's the wrong situation to apply that strength. Now, if some crazy person were to break in my home in the middle of the night, yes, you better believe I would respond with the maximum amount of force necessary to protect my family. But I've had to learn, Dan, parenting skills that my upbringing did not prepare me for. I had to learn how to hear him crying but understand what he's really upset about. That was not something that came naturally to me. You know, most of you know my daughter was born with a cataract. Six weeks old, she's having eye surgery. We've had to help her rehabilitate that eye. Winifred, I'll be honest. Sometimes I just get lost. And so I will go and I will find a book and I will read it. I read a great book on anger management. I read the five love languages which transformed the way I treat my wife and our marriage. I'm now about to read the five love languages of children to understand how to better love my kids. But I had to go out and get those tools, Terry. They weren't just automatically, you know, in they weren't just arrows that were ready to come out of my quiver. I had to learn them. And I learned pretty well from manmade writings. But to bring it now back, because that was a little bit longer of a rabbit trail than I expected, to bring it back, the books that I have read to teach me to have a better parent, they only have authority over the physical aspects of my life, my physical nature, my resisting the temptation to use my physical nature. But when I sit down to read the Word of God, it speaks to me on a spiritual level that no manmade book ever could. Because God as my creator, as my heavenly father, Jesus as my savior, has the authority over my spiritual nature to help transform me to be the husband I'm trying to be, the father I'm trying to be, the pastor that I'm trying to be. You know, I meet with my pastor friends and we, I think you'd be really, I think it would be amusing if you were flying on the wall to hear how pastors talk to themselves when nobody else is around. Because we have a tendency to be pretty harsh. Like, especially my friends, and Jackie maybe I just have the most street pastor friends ever, but we get in each other's faces a lot. Like if I mess up, if somebody's in a hospital and I didn't visit them, one of my pastor friends is going to blow my phone and be like, Hi, so why are you a loser today? And so we ride each other pretty hard. But that's only because we know the value of trying to put the Word of God into people's lives. The Word of God has the ability to have authority over your spiritual nature. And there's nothing else on the planet that can do that. Here's your fourth blank this morning. Why should the Word of God be our sole authority for life? Because only the Word of God can grow spiritual fruit. It is only the Word of God that can grow spiritual fruit. Now if you are with me in Hebrews and you have a physical Bible, grab like a half an inch section of your Bible and flip towards the beginning of the New Testament. We're looking for the Gospel of Luke. Matthew, Mark, Luke. Luke is the third Gospel in the New Testament. And in the Gospel of Luke, Chapter 8, we're going to briefly sort of interject into a much longer parable that Jesus is giving. But I want to show you Luke, Chapter 8. This is verse 11 and 15. Now let me give you the back story here because I didn't want to read through all of it. Jesus is giving us a teaching about the Word of God itself. Doug, he compares the Word of God to seeds that are being sown or scattered by a farmer. He specifically identifies four different seeds. There's a seed that fell here. There's a seed that fell here. There's a seed that fell here. The fourth one is the only one we're going to talk about this morning. The good one. The first three all had different growth problems. But the fourth seed, the one over here, it grew really well. This is what the story means. The seed is God's message. And the seed that fell on the good ground is like those who hear God's teaching with good, honest hearts and obey it and patiently produce good fruit. The Word of God is the only book on the planet, Lynette, that has the ability to grow spiritual fruit in your life. Because if we follow the way we've looked at it, it's the only book that's written by God. It's the only book whose authority is everlasting. It's the only book that has authority over the spiritual nature of your life. And as such, it is the only book that can develop spiritual fruit in your life. And now you're looking at me like going, so is that like banana, kiwi, passion fruit? Well, just to give you the short list, what are the fruits of the spirit? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, self-control. Now those are not the only fruits of the spirit. There are many more if you look through the Bible that God develops fruit in our life. And fruit is obviously not the kind of physical fruit, but Terry, it is the byproduct or the outpouring of God transforming your life. One of the biggest fruits in my life is patience. Because Jackie, I'm not a really patient person. I'll just be honest. I'm not a very patient person. It takes me a while to build that up. And I have had to, now number one, please take my advice. Don't ever pray for patience. Don't ever say, Lord, please help me to have patience. Because Glennon, you know exactly what's going to happen, right? God is going to put you in situation after saying, okay Bill, you want to grow in patience? Here, blunk, here, blunk. All of a sudden everything in your life is going to go wrong. But Savalas, I'll be honest. Since, I mean, how long ago was it that we did the fruits of the spirit series? It had to be at least a couple of months. If not, six or more. Patience has been the only thing that God has been really tooling in my life. And he's been digging deep, digging hard. You know, some of you know I have my in-laws move in with me. My children are sick. We're still struggling to get a definition on my son's autism. These last six or eight months have been an incredible internal challenge for me. The church is doing pretty well. Greeter team is working well. Like the business is going well. Melanie is picking up new clients. Genevieve, I don't know what the problem is. My life should be awesome. And internally struggles. I struggle to be patient. And I just have to keep saying, okay, Lord, I know that through all of these circumstances, I can look at James, have joy when you experience various trials. Because going through endurance you will be developed. That's paraphrased. But I know the word of God has the ability to grow fruit in my life. And Lynette, I've got to be honest. Now looking back at the last six months, I feel like this has been another, I better have an apple orchard worth of patience by the time I'm done with this. Because it has been challenging. But yet in that challenging, Terry, I can at least see God moving in my life. I've got to ask myself the question, well, Bill, would you rather just God ignore you and not care about your life? Or would you rather him say, Dan, take this step with me. Come on. Take this step. Let's tackle this fruit next. Let's grow this area of your life. And whilst I can laugh and I can joke and it's challenging, and yes, there are nights that I just lay there in my pillow and I go, Dear God, help me to survive tomorrow. I know that God is building something in me. And I know I may not be the only person that ever prays that prayer, but if you do, trust me, I'm right there with you. Dear God, help me survive tomorrow by your grace. Because I know that if I can do that, you are developing fruit in me. Dan, the word of God is the only book, the only work that is in my life. The only work that exists in creation that can develop that spiritual fruit in you. Yes, we could go find a self-help book written by another human being. Yes, it might have some good mental ideas, but Dustin, only the word of God can develop spiritual fruit in you. And that spiritual fruit, not to get way off on another tangent, but Dustin, that spiritual fruit is also what will change your eternity. Salvation is not just about getting into heaven. Living the Christian life is about... That's probably me. Yep. No, maybe not. Spiritual fruit is about the life you will live when you get there. I want to have spiritual fruit in my life. I want to be a better person each day. And Christ is the only one who can do that, and His Word is the only way that spiritual fruit can be grown. Here's your fifth and final reason why solo scriptura, why is the Bible important. Because only the Word of God can guard against sin. Now there's that word guard. It's in our key theme for this entire series. Because only it can guard against sin. Now we're going to look at the book of Psalms. So basically, close your Bible, stick your finger in the dead center, and open it, and you will be in the book of Psalms. And we need Psalm 119 verse 11. Psalm 119 verse 11 says this. I have taken your words to heart, so I would not sin against you, Hybo-earth. I have taken your words to heart, so I would not sin against you. This is the culmination of all these thoughts so far this morning. Only God's Word is eternal. Only God's Word has authority over our spiritual life. Only God's Word can grow spiritual fruit. And Terry, it is only God's Word that can guard against sin. Now Tracy, we've got to ask the why here, right? Why is it only God's Word can guard us against sin? I can read another book that talks about sin. I can go buy a billion books from Amazon that all talk about sin and the nature of sin. And there's great theology books. But at the end of the day, who defines sin? Only God. Only God Himself is the true definer and therefore judge, or judge. I could speak regular English. God is the only one who defines and judges sin. So therefore, Kim, His Word is the only Word that has the capability of guarding us from sin. You can read a lot of books about the Bible. You can read commentary. I have several. They're great study tools. But don't ever get the commentary confused with the text. We talk about that on Tuesdays. Don't ever start by reading the commentary and then go to the Bible. Go to the Word of God first. Make your observation list. Observe what is going on. And then you can properly draw conclusions. I had someone come up to me this week who will remain nameless, but they're a part of our Tuesday Bible study. And they told me that their perspective has begun to change on certain issues in their life because they've been spending time really looking deep into the Bible. They've been looking deeply at God's Word. And now they can feel that change starting to happen in their life. There is no better example to me for why the Word of God is the sole authority in our life than that. Only the Word of God has the ability to transform you and even change, Dustin, the way you see the world, the way your perspective becomes more aligned with God's Word and God's truth. I learned later on this week after I had prepared this morning's message, this is also, oddly enough, one of the most hotly debated of the five solas to come out of the Reformation. And Fred, I think there's good reason for that. It's because if we can degrade and erode someone's trust in the truth of the Word of God, then man, the whole thing starts to unravel. The whole Jesus thing starts to unravel. The whole church thing starts to unravel. Man, if we don't teach and defend the validity of God's Word, then shoot, what are we doing? Let's just go ahead and sing a couple songs, drink the juice, and go home. Because the Word of God has to stand true as our authority. The Word of God has to make a difference in our lives. To get back to the key theme for the series, a healthy Christian life is guarded and guided by a firm foundation. I have one final sentence, and it is not meant to upset you. So I will preface this final statement by saying, please don't be upset with me too much. But if you are upset with me, we should probably talk about why. So here's, just get your really, like if I didn't already get you really ready for this statement, here it is. If you believe that the Bible is our final authority, which I hope I have brought you to that point this morning. If you believe that the Bible is our final authority for life, and you do not live like it, you are either ignorant or arrogant. Take your pick. I'll read it again. If you believe the Bible is our final authority for life, but Julie, our life does not show that belief. If you do not live a life that evidences the fact that you believe that God's Word is your final authority, then you are in one of two camps. You are either ignorant of what the Bible says about life, and that's why your life doesn't match it. Or if you are knowledgeable of what God's Word says about your life, then you are arrogant enough to believe it doesn't apply to you. And that's our decision point I want to bring us to this morning. If you truly believe the Bible is God's authority for your life, then how much authority does it actually have in your life? How much authority does it have in your decisions? How much authority does it have in the way you do whatever it is that you do? When we finish the Pillars series, in fact Jackie, I know the graphic is in there somewhere. Can you find me the picture for walking deeper? When we finish this series, which this was week four, right? So next week is week five. So next week is the final week for Pillars. We're going to do this. It starts on Sunday, June 21st, and it's called Walking Deeper. We're going to spend six weeks looking at six aspects of life and how we can grow deeper in our faith in those six aspects. And I'm sorry, the graphic had a time on it. Jackie, can you go back to it? After ten seconds it... So give me the Walking Deeper one more time. It does start on Father's Day. That's Sunday, June 21st. We're also having a baby dedication on that day. We're also starting a brand new series. This should be a super fun Sunday. This is Walking Deeper. How should our faith influence our daily lives? So I'll read you my statement one more time. If you believe the Bible is our final authority, but you don't live like it, then you are either ignorant of its truth or arrogant enough to believe that it does not apply to you. Do me a favor, pull out your connection card. It looks a little bit like this. Pastor Jack introduced you to it earlier in our service. I want to take a look at the back of it with you this morning. In the upper left-hand portion of your connection card, it says, my next step today is every week at C3, I challenge our church and our church family and anybody who chooses to worship with us, take a next step. Don't let this morning's message just be something that you listen to, but it doesn't transform your life in any way, shape, or form. So I have a couple of suggestions here for you. Number one, this week I will spend time reading God's word each day. If you do not crack open the pages of your Bible or open it on your tablet, on your smartphone, on your iPad, on your whatever, Melanie has the Uversion Bible app. Kim, she just grabs her phone or iPad or whatever closest, and the device reads it to her. She just turns it right on while she's cooking. She'll just put the iPad in the kitchen and turn it on, and it'll read it to you, I think until you tell it to stop. She reads whole chapters. She's trying to read her way through the Old Testament right now. Whole chapters of it. Today's technology, there's no reason you can't interface with the word of God. So here's the next step. I will spend time reading God's word each day. Now that doesn't mean each day this week, for seven consecutive days. Next one. This week I will spend time reading God's word with my family. It is so important that you not just have a relationship with God's word as an individual, but that you are drawing your entire family. There are some great, you know, we have kids. There are some great stories from the Old Testament. David versus Goliath. Personally, I like the story of Joseph. Of course, my kids aren't quite old enough to get the idea of being sold into slavery and accused of rape. So maybe not the right story for a five-year-old, but Terry, I know most of your kids are adults. There are some wonderfully epic stories in the Bible. Moses, David, Elijah, Elisha, Daniel in the lion's den. Don't ever back down from telling the truth. There's some great stories out there. This week I will spend some time reading God's word with my family. That would be a great way. Number three. I would like help building my doctrinal foundation. I've had that next step in there for this entire series because it is my firm belief that when you truly understand and know what you believe, it will help you live a better Christian life. If you want to sit down at a table with some water and some notebooks and a Bible and truly hash out what it is that you believe, check off that next step. When this series is over, I'm going to take that entire group of people and we're going to have dinner. And we're going to have dinner, and we're going to pull out our Bibles, and we're going to talk about life issues. One dinner, one night. I'm not asking for a long-term class. I'm asking one dinner, one night, just a few hours, free food, and let's talk about how you're going to turn that Bible into the rudder for your life. So if you want to do that, please check that next step off. And you can see there this week I will memorize 2 Timothy 3, verses 16 and 17. That's about the Bible being training. It's not just a rule book. It is training to equip you to live life. The section right below that says, send me info about, all morning I have talked about the power of the Word of God. We had communion. Communion symbolizes Jesus' death on the cross. I don't ever want to leave a church service without offering someone the opportunity to start a new life that includes God. Starting a new life of forgiveness that includes Jesus. So if you're here this morning and you've never really made a decision or a commitment that goes, I want to be a Christian. It doesn't mean I'm going to pull you up here in front of the church. It doesn't mean I'm going to embarrass you. I'm not going to take your picture and put it on my Instagram feed. I will if you want me to, but that's not the point. I want to know, do you live every day with the knowledge that you have Jesus as your Savior? Yes or no? If the answer is no and you would like to, all you've got to do is fill in that bubble that says, beginning life with Jesus. I won't embarrass you. I will contact you later afterwards and follow up and see if we can have a conversation about that. One right below that says rededicating my life. Maybe there was a time in your life before today that you made a commitment to follow Jesus. Could have been a church camp as a kid, another church service, some sort of conference maybe, but your lifestyle really never changed. You made a commitment, I do want to follow Jesus, but that really never translated to your lifestyle. That's what we call rededicating my life. So while it doesn't really change your salvific state between you and God, you're still saved, but it says today I'm going to start living more like a Christian. Third, how to grow spiritually. We have an awesome discipleship plan here at C3. You give me 20 minutes, I'll even buy the coffee, we'll go to Starbucks, I will buy you a cup of coffee, and in 20 minutes we can come up with a personalized growth prescription just for you. So Dan, when you get up tomorrow morning, you know you can spend these five to seven minutes doing these couple of things, and you're going to start growing in your faith. If you've never had someone sit down with you and give it to you on a personal one-on-one level, that is what our church is about. I want everyone to have their own personal growth plan, because you always work better when you plan your work and work your plan. So please, if you're interested in any of those, fill it out. On the far right-hand side of your connection card top, it says upcoming events. Ladies, I apologize, I printed the connection cards before Melanie wrote the bulletin. I printed the connection cards for Melanie wrote the bulletin. Ladies, if you want to come to the ladies' lunch and you want RSVB today, I just need you to write it in, the space between the burgers and billiards and the black bar, just write in ladies' luncheon, and then next week I promise I'll do a better job, and I'll make sure you have a bubble to fill in. But if you'll write in ladies' luncheon, Melanie's going to start getting that RSVP list so we can get enough space reserved at Panera. So do me a favor, take one last look at everything on the back of your connection card, and then turn it over and make sure your name is on the front, because we still get connection cards sometimes where people filled out the backs, but they forgot to fill out the fronts earlier in the service. So please do me a favor, make sure your connection card is filled out, and Terry and Doug, if you guys could come up and help me in a moment, we're going to collect this morning's offering.