You know, we realize that Jesus is still alive. That's the entire reason we celebrate Easter. But Dustin, what we're going to focus on for the next six weeks is Jesus when He was in His earthly ministry. When He was, you know, physically corporeal on this earth. And for the entire encountering Jesus, we have a singular statement that I want to give to you. So each week we're going to look at this statement, and this statement is going to bring us into the message. So here's the statement that I want us to look at for the next couple of weeks. The key thought is this. There is nothing more life-changing than a personal encounter with the Savior. There is nothing more life-changing than a personal encounter with the Savior. And as we go through the next couple of weeks, we are going to look at a few different people who had a personal encounter. Sean, we're going to look at someone who had nothing left when they spoke to Jesus. We're going to look at somebody who was bound by sin, and that's when they met Jesus. We're going to look at someone who was afraid to believe. Believe it or not, there's someone in the Bible who was initially a little afraid to believe in Jesus and how that encounter went. We're going to look at someone who was being held back. I can definitely identify with that. And we're going to look at somebody who needed freedom from religion. But this morning, we're going to look at someone who proves to us that it's never too late to have an encounter with Jesus. As you can see on the back of your bulletin, it looks a little like this. The title of this morning's message is Encountering Jesus, the Criminal at the Cross. And do me a favor, I want you to pull out the pen that we gave you and follow along with me on the back of your bulletin. Even Fred, even if you want to leave the bulletin here when the service is over, I'm totally okay with that. Make sure you take your five-minute moments. But I'm okay if you want to leave the bulletin here. But while we go through this message, fill this out with me and I hope that we'll discover something together. Now our text for this morning's message comes from the Gospel of Luke. So if you brought your Bible with you, whether they be physical or digital, that's totally okay. Turn or click with me to the Gospel of Luke. And we're going to look in chapter 23 and we're going to start reading in verse 39. So it's Luke 23 and we're going to read verses 39 to 43. And I have it for you here on the screens in the New Living translation. So this is Luke 23, 39 to 43 in the New Living. And this is what it says, One of the criminals hanging beside him scoffed. So you're the Messiah, are you? Prove it by saving yourself and us too while you're at it. While the other criminal protested, Don't you fear God even when you have been sentenced to die? We deserve to die for our crimes, but this man hasn't done anything wrong. Then he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus replied, I assure you today you will be with me in paradise. Now this is, Angelina, this is Jesus on the cross. And the typical kind of romantic picture is Jesus in the middle. There are two criminals. I was thinking about it as I was preparing for this morning's message. TJ, I've always called him a thief. I've always called him the thief on the cross. And I don't know why I've always called him that. Because Scripture never really says what his crime is. Amanda, I just assumed maybe he like stole stuff. I don't know how I got the idea in my head that he was a thief on the cross, but I had to really sort of rethink this. So the back story here is Jesus is hanging on the cross. And there are two criminals that are hung on either side of him. And this is the conversation that we're going to talk about this morning. Now what I want to do is I'm going to go ahead and give you your first blank. And then we're going to go back through this passage, verse by verse, and sort of take it apart. So Tom, here's your first blank this morning. Unbelief will always be a challenge. So let's go back and look at our very first verse this morning, Luke 23, just 39. One of the criminals beside him scoffed. So you're the Messiah, are you? Prove it. I love this. I love this. Lynette, this man is being executed for his crimes. Now we do not know much about the criminals. In fact, these few verses and their corresponding verses in some of the other Gospels are all that we know. So Sam, I'm going to go ahead and give you a little bit of a brief explanation. So we don't know what the crime was. We don't know if these people lived a life worth of criminal behavior or whether they got just caught on the one big one that they did and they're being executed. But either way, what I want you to realize is we're talking about two criminals. Kathy, one on his right, one on his left. Both criminals were guilty. Both criminals were tried by the same legal system. Both criminals were being executed. Diane, both criminals are at the mercy of the crowd. They are hung naked up for everyone to see, nailed to a Roman cross. And I don't know how much you know about Roman crucifixion, but let me just put it in really simple terms. Abby, not comfortable. Not comfortable whatsoever. Excruciating. The Romans were masters at bleeding every ounce of torturous pain out of their veins. Out of their victims before they died. And these two men, alongside of the Savior, are dying and being executed for their crimes. The difference, Dustin, between these two guys is this guy's got an attitude problem and the other one didn't. Now it's interesting to note, if you look at this same corresponding passage in Matthew, you'll see Matthew records that both of them initially scoffed at Jesus. And then Terry, one of them had a change of heart. One of them chose to believe in spite of the other one's unbelief. And Angeline, I think that's where we really have to start our conversation about encountering Jesus. Because we live in a culture today where it is totally okay to say, I worship God. Because God could be whatever. You know, God could be this, Julia, God could be that, God could be the tree, God could be the stars. God could be your own personal image of what you think God is. But the moment we say, I worship Jesus, all of a sudden that name Jesus becomes polarizing. Julia, it's now way more offensive. It's not just, oh yeah, I believe in God. No, no, I believe in Jesus. I believe in a God. No, I believe in Jesus. All of a sudden, when you put that word Jesus in context, truth is polarizing. Sabine, I know we've talked about this on Tuesday nights. Truth, by its very nature, is exclusive. There is truth and there is anti-truth or non-truth or lie. There is truth and if truth is real, then there must be the absence of truth or the opposite of truth. So Dustin, when I say I believe in Jesus, it doesn't just mean I believe in some random God. It doesn't mean I believe in whatever my idea of God is. But we live in a culture today, you know, and where believing in something is even a challenge. We live in a very skeptical culture. I know we live, and many of you have heard me, one of my soapboxes, we live in an anti-supernaturalist culture. Julia, we believe that people just don't believe in the supernatural anymore, which is hilarious with the amount of movies that have to deal with supernatural activity, but we don't really believe it's real anymore. We just think it's fake, it's fantasy, it's something that's just for the storybooks. We no longer believe that there could be a supernatural, and so then when we approach the Word of God, we rule out everything supernatural. Corey, there couldn't be such things as miracles because miracles don't fit with science. Well, in case anybody hasn't figured this out yet, science cannot measure everything that exists in life, as I knock that on the floor. Science can measure gravity. But what about something like integrity, loyalty, honesty, love, camaraderie? Those are things that are very real. I know several of you have served in the armed forces. Comradery is incredibly real, but that doesn't mean you can measure it with a test tube and a beaker. So I want to challenge you this morning, as we approach the Word of God, and as we approach the character of the Savior, to realize that we all face our own level of unbelief. You've all come to church this morning with your own history, Selena with your own backstories. Yours is different from mine, which is different from Amanda's, and that's okay. And each of us comes and approaches the Savior with our own level of unbelief that we're challenged with. You know, Julie, I'm okay believing here, but over here is going to be tough for me. And I want you to just think about that for a second, Tracy, that's okay. We all approach our own bit of unbelief. But Terry, there's one thing I have to say. Unbelief is the single greatest obstacle to faith, because faith by its very nature requires belief. So for the next 15 minutes, I want you to take whatever unbelief that is that's just sort of bouncing around on the inside of your head, and just hold onto it. Just table it, put a pin in it for a quick second. Because unbelief is a challenge for all of us. But as I hope we'll see as we go through this story, it is not a challenge that is insurmountable. Here's your second blank this morning. It's never too late to talk to Jesus. It is never too late to talk to Jesus. Take a look at verse 40 of our passage this morning. But the other criminal protested. Don't you fear God even when you are being sentenced to die? Anybody ever heard the phrase, better late than never? Yes, apparently several of you have heard that. Better late than never. Frank, I don't think, I can't think of a better example of better late than never than this cat right here. He has lived a life, we don't really know how long. He has been captured, tried, and is now being executed for a crime. There is not a whole lot of life left in this character. Sean, as he's standing there on the cross, we'll go ahead and say roughly 12 to 36 hours left of agonizing life. Not a whole lot of time left to make some really gigantic life decisions. If you haven't planned for your retirement by the time you're on the cross, you're pretty much just out. Get somebody to write down a dying declaration while you hang there, but you're out. There's not a lot of time left in this man's life. And yet, in the course of a few sentences, he has a meaningful conversation with the Savior that forever changes his eternal destiny. I know a lot of people, Laz, I know a lot of people will say to me, you know, it's really cool that you're a pastor and all, but I just, I've done too many things. In fact, I was hanging out with Terry the other day and somebody said, you know, I can't go to church because the church will burn down. I think that's hilarious that people think their lives have been so bad or so corrupt or so whatever that the building itself is in danger if they were to attend church. I just don't see that. Laz, this guy is a criminal being executed. He's got less than maybe 24 hours to live, and yet he still has time to have a meaningful conversation with the Savior. And that conversation ends up changing the rest of his eternity. Now there's that word eternity. Abs, when we think about how long we live on this earth in comparison to how long eternity will be, I don't care if it's the last 30 seconds of your breath. It is never too late to have a conversation with the Savior. Now what's interesting is, Dustin, let's go ahead and say that both of these guys are going to die at about the same time, right? They're all crucified at about the same time. Give or take, they're all going to expire at the same time. The difference between the scoffing criminal and we'll call him the faithful criminal is your next blank. Be honest with yourself. Judy, you've got to be honest with yourself. Let's look at verse 41. Look at what he says here. We deserve to die. Just that much. We deserve to die for our crimes. But this man hasn't done anything wrong. Sheila, do you know what this teaches me about this man? I know nothing about him. I do not know his age. I do not know his crime. But I know he understands the concept of justice. Because first he says, we deserve to die for our crimes. He owns his own activity. And he owns the idea, Janet, that whatever he has done, he is deserving of this punishment. That means his internal sense of justice has come to terms with the fact, Amanda, whatever I have done, this situation I am in now, I owned it. I earned this. This is the reaping of my sowing. I'm here. So, Dan, he has a very clear sense of internal justice. And he's honest enough with himself that the decisions in his life have led him to this moment. And this moment is well deserved. It's well earned. But then look at what his sense of justice says when he looks over at the Savior at the cross next to him. But this man hasn't done anything wrong. So I know that this criminal has a very clear sense of justice. And I also know that when he applies that justice to himself, he finds himself guilty. But when he, Josh, when he applies that same sense of internal justice to the Savior, he sees Jesus as innocent. That is true honesty, seeing someone as less guilty than yourself. You know, we have several children that run around our house all the time. And I find it really amazing social experiment to watch what they do when they don't know an adult is watching. So like, I'll stand, you know, every single parent just went, ha ha ha. Yeah. You stand outside the bedroom and the doors crack just enough so that you can watch the kids, but they don't know you're watching. And then all of a sudden one of them does something that is just absolutely hysterical. And I don't know why. Either somebody picks on somebody or, no, Micah's favorite thing. I love it. Micah will go up to his cousins and he'll do something wrong and then to try to go, shh, don't tell, don't tell, don't tell. And that's all you really have to hear to know. I'm like, dude, you just let the cat out of the bag. If you didn't tell him not to tell, we wouldn't have heard you. So, Terry, I'm going to knock you over by accident. Terry, don't tell, don't tell, don't tell. Micah has a sense of internal justice, doesn't he? He knows that when he did something wrong, that there is an impending judgment to that wrong. Well, so does this man here on the cross. But he applies that sense of internal justice correctly to himself. And Fred, I think that's the challenge we're faced with today. In order to have a meaningful encounter with the Savior, you've got to be honest with yourself first. Where are you? Where are you in your life? Let's take spirituality off the table for a second. Where are you in your life, in your job, in your marriage, in your family, in your relationship with your children? All of that is a part of who you are. He started out, we deserve to die for our crimes. Own the life you live. But that doesn't mean that the life you've lived up to today has to be the same life you live after today. Own where you're at. Be honest enough with yourself and then think this. Where are you at in your relationship with God? We're all standing in a Christian church, so I would assume everybody's heard the story of Jesus. If not, keep listening, I'll finish telling it for you. But where are you at in your relationship with the Savior? Be honest with yourself. Has it been a long time since you and he have had a conversation? Has it been ever? I know that's a really offensive thing to say in church, but I've been around church people long enough to know that everybody can put that mask on when they come to church. I know those of you who are C-3 regulars, you know, hear me say this all the time. But those of you who are new, here's what happens in a lot of American churches. Not all, but a lot. You leave your home, everybody gets in the car. The kids were late, it's difficult getting the kid into the car seat. So you get in the car, you look at the clock, you're already frustrated. Your sense of, oh my gosh, I'm going to be late, I'm going to be late. People start getting frustrated. Three or four red lights down the road, Lynette. Now that frustrating is rolling to a boil. And by the time you turn onto the block that the church is on, somebody's pounding on a dash. Somebody else is upset. And then the moment the front tires touch the holy land of the church parking lot, everybody is super holy. I know my family is not the only family that has ever lived that experience. Please don't raise your hands. Please don't, you don't have to own that one. That one you can just politely elbow your spouse if you would like. Now is an acceptable time to do that. As I see a bunch of people go. You got to own your life. You got to be honest about the good and the bad. And the reason for that is if you cannot be honest with yourself, how do you expect to have a meaningful relationship with anyone, let alone the Son of God? You know, we talked about it a few weeks ago. Can you really lie to God? Well, yes, you can lie to him, but you cannot deceive him. We talked about that. You can have the intention to deceive God. Now you will not deliver on that intention because God's omniscience will get in your way. God is all-knowing, but that doesn't mean I can't try. Cheryl, it doesn't mean I can't try to lie to God. Just like Micah tries to get away with it. Shut up, don't tell, don't tell, don't tell. Just like he tries to get away with it. You're going to have to be honest enough with yourself. And Diane, another point I want to make here. When you're being honest with yourself, don't measure your own life. Don't measure yourself against the rest of us. Morality by comparison is not really morality. And you know how I can explain it? Corey, I'm going to invite you over to my house for dinner this week. And I'm going to give you two plates. I'm going to give you plate A, I'm going to give you plate B. And both plates have moldy bread. Which plate are you going to eat? It was a rhetorical question, it's okay. But Nelson, would you choose to eat the less moldy bread only by virtue of the fact that it's less moldy? I'm going to eat this bread because it's less moldy than that bread. I'm going to eat this fruit because it's less rotten than this fruit over here. I'm going to drink this milk because it's less curdled than this milk. No, don't start making kitchen jokes, okay? Nobody blame anybody else's kitchen right here. But nobody in their right mind does that. Tracy, you don't go into your kitchen and find the two most rotten pieces of fruit and then go, I'm going to eat this one because it's less rotten. We don't do that to ourselves, but yet we do that to God. We go, well God, I'm okay because I'm not as bad as, and we fill in the blank. I'm not as bad as person. I'm not as bad as group of people. I'm not as bad as whoever. And yet we define ourselves by our own subjective comparative morality, and we make it okay. So Josh, I'm okay because you and I are not as bad as, fill in the blank, is not an acceptable honesty level. Fred, if we are going to measure ourselves against anything, it's either 100% pure or it's nothing. There's no point in having a measuring scale that does not go to the 100% end. So when you're looking at yourself and you're being honest with yourself, you shouldn't be measuring yourself against another human, because that doesn't seem really fair. Amanda, as long as you're more holy than fill in the blank, you'll feel good about yourself. But the reality is you're not measuring yourself against a pure standard, and that's Jesus. So as you're honest with yourself about your relationship with God this morning, don't do it by comparison. Do it and compare to God. Here's your fourth blank. You're going to have to take a step of faith. In order to have a meaningful and impactful encounter with Jesus, it will require a step of faith. Take a look at the second sentence that the faithful criminal says here in verse 42. Then he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. I think this is the coolest sentence. I think there's a lot going on in this sentence. So let me break it down for you. Very first thing, then he said, Jesus, stop. Last I just mentioned this. He didn't place his faith in a random definition of God. He was very clear. He was very specific. Gary, Jesus, not God, not a God, not a demigod, not a God substitute, not a God-like substance. Jesus. He directs his faith on the singular person of Jesus. Second thing he says, remember me when. Now remember two points ago we talked about the fact that these men have about 24 hours left to live. In fact, we find out later Jesus had a whole lot less than that. So here's the question for you, Tom. Why does the thief have the expectation that Jesus will remember anything after death? He said, remember me when. That remember me when? That means he has an expectation that Jesus is going to be somewhere after the cross. In a simple, basic way, Amanda, he's saying, I believe in eternal life. Or else he wouldn't say remember me when. If he was an annihilationist, which means life just stops. After you die, life just stops. Your energy is absorbed into the cosmos and there is no more afterlife. That remember me when? Those three words would make no sense. Doug, the only logical explanation for remember me when is that the criminal already has a belief in the afterlife. Or he wouldn't say that. So he puts his faith clearly in Jesus. And then TJ, remember me when. I believe this isn't it for me. There's something else. And then he says what? When you come into your kingdom. If you have a Bible and you want to highlight something, the word your is the most fantastic word in this sentence. Because Cindy, not only does he put his faith in Jesus, not only does he believe in the afterlife, but he says that that afterlife, that place where Jesus is going is your kingdom. In one sentence, he expresses the entire message of the gospel. That Jesus is the key to eternal life because he is the king of that kingdom. In that one sentence, he got the gospel. Now we don't exactly know how he got it. Now yes, those of you who know your Bible, there was a sign that was hung over Jesus on the cross. Anybody watch their Jesus movie this weekend? Remember what that sign said? Yes? The king of the Jews. In fact there was an argument. The high priest went to Pontius Pilate who was the Roman prefect. And he said, no, no, no, don't say he was the king of the Jews. Go ahead and say that he said he was the king of the Jews. And Pontius Pilate says, no, no, no, what I've said, let it be written. So there's a sign over Jesus' head that says the king of the Jews. Obviously the sign was written in mockery of the Savior. But this criminal hanging on the cross has a clear belief that Jesus is the key to eternal life. In one small little sentence. And we get the whole gospel in a nutshell. You are going to have to take a step of faith toward the Savior if you plan on having a meaningful encounter. At some point in your life, Jesus has to go from a character in a book to a real life part of your life. There's got to be this precipice point. When you get to your five minute moment, I think it's Thursday, it's titled the precipice point. There has to be a moment in your life where you make a decision and go, I'm in. Because if not, then you'll never have a statement like that. And it doesn't have to be big and it doesn't have to be complex and it doesn't have to be filled with 13 million dollar theological words. Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom, still had the entire essence of the gospel in it. Here's your final blank this morning. After that step, faith is rewarded with life. Faith is rewarded with life. Final verse this morning that we're looking at is Luke 23, 43. Now after all this has transpired, Jesus makes this statement. And Jesus replied, I assure you today you will be with me in paradise. Dan, wouldn't that be super awesome? Jesus just show up and be like, Dan, today. Now, if you didn't know you were going to die today, that would be a pretty scary statement, right? All of a sudden Jesus shows up, Dan, by the way, today, whoa, wait a minute. The thief knows that his death is imminent. The thief knows he's about to expire. He's being executed. He's not coming down. And yet Jesus, in the midst of that excruciating death-ridden environment, Lena, he gives this man the one hope that he asked for. Today, you will be with me in paradise. Jesus didn't make him wait. He didn't say, Sabine, I'm going to go ahead and put you on the wait list. Heaven's at about a 45 to 55 minute wait right now, so here's your little heaven buzzer. No, none of that happened. Jesus was clear today. What was his sentence? Remember me when? His request didn't really have a time frame on it because he didn't know. Tracy, he didn't know when Jesus would make it to his eternal kingdom. So the thief just sort of leaves it wide open. Remember me when? It's kind of like, hey, call me when? The next time you're in town, will, you know, whatever. The thief kind of had it wide open and Jesus puts the nail on it and he says, today, today, you will be with me in paradise. If you will take the simple step of faith towards the Savior, that simple step will be rewarded with life. And Amanda, I know you've heard me say this, so I'm going to say this for the benefit of everybody else. But you can nod and pretend like it sounds really cool. Accepting faith in Jesus is not only about fire insurance. I know that there was a generation of preachers that preached fire and brimstone like it was going out of style, and everybody needs to accept Jesus, or you're going to hell. Repeat now! I don't know why, the brimstone sounds way cooler with a southern accent. It does. But there was an entire generation of fire and brimstone preaching. And it's true. There will be a judgment day. And there will be a day when we all will answer for our life and you will either be found guilty or your guilt will be remediated over to Jesus. That's truth. But you know what? Nobody stopped to really preach about Lynette. Accepting Jesus is also about changing your life today. Not just when. Not just in the remember me when judgment day comes, Josh, someday. Maria, remember me today. Jesus, be with me today. Give me the strength for today. Give me the courage for today. The very message that Jesus gave the thief on the cross is the same message that he has for every one of us today. Today your life can change. Not when. Not someday if. Today. That is what a real, true encounter with Jesus is about. Julie, it changes your life today. That moment. That moment you accept the responsibility to take that step of faith. That moment you respond that Jesus says, today I'm going to change your life. Today I'm going to change your life. That's the question that I have for you today. Can you be honest enough with yourself and ask yourself, where am I with my relationship with Jesus? A, do I have one? That's a pretty good question to start with. Do you have a personal relationship with the Savior? Have you had that encounter? That encounter where you said something to him and he said something to you? And that today moment when your life changed? If you have not had that experience, I want to challenge you to take that step today. I want to challenge you to ask yourself, what would it take for me to respond in faith and step out to God? Now do me a favor and pull out your connection card. I know Pastor Jack introduced you to that earlier in the service. Look at it and make sure that you got your name on the front. And I want to talk about what's on the back. I want you to look on the left hand side, the middle section that it says, send me info about. And that very first bubble says, send me info about beginning life with Jesus. If you are here this morning and you have never had that personal encounter moment where you stepped out in faith and God radically changed your life, I want to challenge you to take that step today. I want to challenge you to fill in that bubble that says, yes, I would like to begin a new life with Jesus. Now what does that mean? I am not going to ask you to raise your hand and stand up. I am not going to ask you to come up here in front of the church and be embarrassed. You know what I'm going to do? If you fill out that bubble, I'm going to let you sit right there and nobody's going to know that you've done it. But God will know you've done it. And then when we collect those connection cards, I'm going to contact you. I'm going to see if we can get some coffee or a burger or some ice cream because discipleship always goes better with food. It does. And I'm going to have we'll have a one-on-one conversation because God is a one-on-one kind of God. I'm not going to bring up here in front of the church. I'm not going to take your picture, throw you on my Instagram and go, look who just got saved. I'm not going to do any of that. But I am going to contact you personally and see if we can have a conversation and get you started on a path to having a relationship with Jesus. So here's where I need your step of faith. If you have never had a personal encounter with the Savior and you want to grab your pen and fill out that bubble that says beginning life with Jesus, the one right below that that says rededicating my life. Maybe you made a decision for Jesus at some point in your life at a previous church, at a camp, at a televangelist meeting or whatever. You made a decision at some point says, yes, I want to believe in Jesus. But life and circumstances and jobs and moving and all these things got in the way. And here you're sitting here this morning and your relationship with God is not as strong as it once was. I want to say that's OK. I have been there. I have actually been there more than once in my life and I work in the church. So you have every right to that be your life choice right now. But if that's where you're at, I don't want you to walk away from today without making a commitment. So I want to ask you, if you're ready to make a recommitment, I'm not changing your salvific state, but I'm saying let's get serious about this whole Jesus thing. Let's get serious and find out what it really means to read the Bible and be able to pray and hear God's voice leading me in my life. If you're ready for that and you've already made a decision at some point in your life, but you would like to recommit that, that's what rededicating my life to Jesus is all about. Again, I'm not going to call you up here. I'm not going to embarrass you, but I will follow up with you. I will contact you, come up with whatever it's going to take to get you out of the house, and I will put whatever food on the table it requires for us to have a meaningful conversation and find out what God's going to do in your life. Finally, the third one under that, how to grow spiritually. We have a really awesome discipleship process here at C3. Give me 20 minutes of your life. I'll walk you through some simple questions and you will walk out with a personalized prescription for growing spiritually. Half the people in the church, we've done it. I can meet you at Starbucks and in 20 minutes we can walk through some simple questions. Find out where you're at, where you want to go, and here's some next steps. C3 is all about grow up. It's the middle part of our mission statement. I want you to join into the body, but after that I don't want you to just sit and become a bump on a pew. That doesn't do anybody any good. What I want you to do is grow in your faith. I want you to grow in your understanding of who God is and who you are and depth in your understanding of the Bible. Tuesday Night Bible Study is super awesome. You need zero experience with the Bible to come on Tuesdays. You can ask anybody who comes. It's discussion based. We go verse by verse. We're walking through the Gospel of John. And it's a hilarious conversation. The things y'all people, random people come up with, the rabbit trails that we end up going down, it's fine. No experience necessary, but I want you to grow. Now do me a favor. Look at the top left hand portion of your card. It says my next step today is. Every week at C3 I challenge people to take a next step. A next step is something that you will commit to do between now and next Sunday to grow spiritually. The point of church is not to have services. The point of church is to grow Christians. I don't know if anybody's ever told you that before. But the point of church is not to sit here, sing some music, listen to somebody talk, give some money and go home. And I've bought my spirituality for a week. If that was your understanding of church, please see me after church. We can fix that. That is not what church is about. In fact, Jesus even said church should be a hospital. That's a paraphrase of what he said to the Pharisees. But church is a place for people to be healed, restored and grow. So let's take a look at some next steps you can take this week. Number one, this week I will challenge an area of unbelief in my life. You know, we started out saying we live in a culture that doesn't always believe. If you have an area of unbelief, I wanted to let you know that's not a problem. Doubt is not the enemy. In fact, I would almost argue, Kathy, doubt is a great thing because doubt should lead to questions and questions should lead to answers. Answers should lead to understanding. That's all predicated on the fact, are you getting quality answers? Where do you research to find your answers? I will tell you this now. Wikipedia is not always theologically correct. Look for some good theological sources. Come ask me. I will recommend a book called The Book of the Catechists. Come ask me. I will recommend a book on whatever topic you want. I love learning. If I haven't read it, I'll read it with you. I am not above learning something new. But if there's an area of your life you want to grow in, we will find a resource and I will hold you accountable. We will get that joker done. Number two, this week I will take a step of faith in a new area of my life. That one's open ended. Where do you feel like you want to step out in faith? Maybe it's in your prayer life. Maybe it's in how regularly you attend church. Maybe it's in how much time you spend reading God's word. Maybe it's in having a Bible study at home with your family. Not everything growing in faith is related to Sunday morning church activities. Third one, this week I will share my encounter with Jesus with someone else. Like the criminal story that we looked at this morning, your encounter is not just for you. It's your own story. We just got finished with a contagious series talking about how to tell your story. Nobody has your story. And Kim, your story is going to change someone's life if you'd be willing to share it. Just like the criminal story changed my life. And we talked about it this morning. Finally, on the right hand side of your connection card, you can see the upcoming events. Mr. and Mrs. Game Night is always a blast. It is always a blast. Married couples, engaged couples, please come on out for a date night. No child care is not provided because there's only married couples at the actual site. So you'll have to arrange your child care if you need some help with that. Let me know. There's a bunch of people who have kids. But Mr. and Mrs. Game Night is hilarious. I will go ahead and say generally on Mr. and Mrs. Game Night, especially the last two, we've played guys versus girls, and the ladies need to catch up. That's all I'm saying. So ladies, if you're good at trivia, if you're good at playing games, and you would like to help the ladies get another win in the score box, please feel welcome. Fred, you better be there. Fred was the anchor player of the last Mr. and Mrs. Game Night, pulling a couple of those trivia questions out of I don't want to know where he found them. I'm just saying. So Mr. and Mrs. Game Night, that's this coming Friday at 730. Everybody just bring a snack to share. It's a blast. Other than that, gentlemen, we are going paintballing. We have rented the entire park. It is a private party. If you have ever wanted an excuse to shoot the pastor with a gun, come to paintball. I will be shooting back. Just be clear. And then finally, the young adults poker. I said it last week. My mentor was down from Orlando last week, and Tom, he sat right about where you and Sam are sitting. And I said something in church that afterwards he came up to me. He laughed. He patted me on the back. He goes, I am so saying that to my congregation on Easter. I said, church, please pray for the poker party. And I want you to. And Sam, I'm honest about that. Please. When we went over our church data from last year, we had seven people that we lost because we didn't have a young adults ministry to get people tied in. I want to rectify that mistake this year. I don't want people to just wander away from our church because we don't have a way to get them connected. And so if you're here this morning, you're between 18 and 30, or if you're here this morning and you know someone who's between 18 and 30, they don't have to come on Sunday mornings to come to the young adults group. Be very clear about that. They can go to another church. We're not going to try to proselytize them. They can go to no church, and I'm not going to force them to come on Sunday mornings. That's not what I'm about. I just want to create a group of young adults who can grow together in faith, even if that means they're not in church right now. And then finally, the Discover class. That is our brand new membership class. If you are not currently a member of C3, which means you went to the old membership class, please consider coming to the Discover class. It's going to give you a look at the past of C3, where we came from, where we're at right now, what our vision is for the future, and if you would like to be a member. I say it all the time, but Gary, membership is not required at our church. It's encouraged. I would love for you to come and find out what our church is about and decide for yourself whether you want to be a part of that. But you are welcome to come on Sunday mornings whether you become a member or not. I'm not about trying to force everyone to be members. But if you want to be a member and join us in what we're trying to do in our community, I'd love for you to do that. So you can take a look there. There's a couple other things on there. Church membership, if you want to talk to me about something, it's there. Other than that, church, I love you. Happy Easter. Here's, oh. Yes, thank you. I'm just in my regular routine. If you have kids and you want to participate in the Easter egg hunt, which will be directly following the service, grab your kids and meet me outside in the parking lot. We've got two separate lots for all the kids to hunt eggs in. So I want to get them all together and then separate them. And then we'll do that because what I don't want is the big kids running over all the little kids. So do me a favor. As soon as Pastor Jack's done talking to you, meet me out front. Other than that, church, I love you. Have a great week.