This morning we are going to continue our end of days series. We started it last week. This series is in response to several people who asked me, Bill, will you please teach what is going to happen at the end of the world? And I said, okay church, if that's what you want to hear, Fred, let's go ahead and rip it. So last week we looked at the foundation for the end of days. Diane, that is what are the expectations that were laid forth in the Old Testament? I believe God's word is true. Doug, I believe when God says something that it's going to happen. And if God made a promise in the Old Testament and it hasn't happened yet, well I believe his word is true. So therefore I believe it will come true. So last week we looked at the foundation of what's going to happen. If you want you can go back, you can find that on our website. You can find it in the C3 Connect app. I even posted a link to social media. Great way to understand all of these coming events. Now this week you can see on the back of your bulletin we're going to talk about the rapture. So this week's message is end of days, the rapture. And so if you would please follow along on the back of your bulletin. I've given you some blanks there. I am super excited, Melissa, I am super excited about this message because it gets us a chance to talk about some really big debated issues, some issues in theology, but also it really helps encapsulate the purpose for the end times. So each series at C3 we have a key thought that sort of connects all of the aspects. And here's the key thought for this series. The end of the world is a series of events. The end of the world is a series of events. Fred, it's not the stereotypical Hollywood picture of, you know, the Schwarzenegger style hero who's got some magical mythical sword and he's fighting his way to stop the end of the world, which happens all at a singular moment. That is not what the Bible teaches. The end of the world is actually a progressive series of events. And when we get to the end of the message today, I'm going to show you the other events that we'll be looking at throughout the series. But today specifically we're going to talk about the rapture. So let me give you your first blank in your notes and then we're going to start to unpack some scripture and discuss what is the rapture. So here's the definition of rapture in a single sentence. Dead and living Christians are caught up in the air. That's the definition of the rapture. Dead and living Christians are caught up in the air. Dead and living Christians are caught up in the air. Now if you brought your Bibles with you this morning, whether they're physical or digital, I'd invite you to turn or click with me to the book of 1 Thessalonians. 1 Thessalonians. We're going to look in chapter 4 verses 15, 16, and 17. So 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 verses 15 through 17. And I have them here for you on the screens in the New Living Translation. So this is what Paul said to the church at Thessalonica. 1 Thessalonians 4, 15 to 17. We tell you this directly from the Lord. We who are still living when the Lord returns will not meet him ahead of those who have died. For the Lord himself will come down from heaven with a commanding shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet call of God. First, the believers who have died will rise from their graves. Then together with them, we who are still alive and remain on earth will be caught up in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. Then we will be with the Lord forever. Now right up front I want to address a common misconception that I hear a lot of people say. How many people have ever heard someone say the word rapture is not in the Bible? Anybody? Diane, you've heard that before? We shouldn't believe in the rapture because the word rapture is not in the Bible. I've heard that. It's not really a sound argument, but I understand where they're coming from. If we can't find the word in the Bible, why should we believe it? Well, the word Trinity is not in the Bible. The word communion is not in the Bible. The word guitar is not in the Bible. That doesn't mean that these things aren't real. That doesn't mean the concepts aren't there. Where does the English word rapture come from? The English word rapture comes from the Latin term rapturo, which literally means to be caught up or carried away. In the Latin translation of the Bible, here is the word rapture. We don't call it the rapture in English because it's not an English word. That doesn't mean, Kevin, that the rapture is not biblical. It just means we have to understand as the word of God got translated from one language to another language, words can change, but meanings do not. The meaning of the rapture is to be caught up, to be carried away, to be taken away. This verse is exactly where it comes from, right here, will be caught up. In Latin, this word is rapturo, and Amanda, that is the basis for our English word rapture. So when someone tells you rapture is not in the Bible, just tell them to read it in Latin and everything will be fine. If you would prefer to read your Bible in Latin, the word rapture is right there. But in English, we say caught up. But this is truly what the rapture is. The Lord is going to call to himself the entire Church of Jesus Christ. So Miss Diane, welcome back, by the way. Let me give you the second thing. This is not a new blank. I'm going to have to roll here for a minute. There's a lot. So I'll let you know when we get to the second blank, but there's a lot I've got to go through here. The first thing you need to understand is very clearly we're talking about living Christians and dead Christians. So who's going to get raptured? Doug, anyone who died during the age of the Church who believed in Jesus Christ. That does not mean Old Testament saints. That does not mean anyone who might accept faith in Jesus Christ after the rapture, but before all the other stuff that happens. We are specifically talking about a group of individuals, Terry, anyone who has accepted salvation in Jesus Christ from the moment he died to today or whenever the rapture happens. That's the Church age when Jesus sacrificed himself on the cross and he bought salvation for everyone. That launched the beginning of the Church age. Lynette, that was sealed at Pentecost. The Holy Spirit came down and the age of the Church began. This is who get raptured. We tell you this directly from the Lord. We who are still living Christians will not meet him ahead of those who have died, meaning previously deceased Christians. For the Lord himself will come down from heaven with a commanding shout with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet call of God. I've got to hit these three audible sounds really quick. Here's the term for you. This moment right here is a hashtag big deal. I'm going to say that all message long and I'm going to show you why at the very end. But let me show you just from this verse. Why do I know the rapture is a hashtag big deal? Number one, the Lord himself is coming. We'll talk about that in a minute. There are three audible sounds that come out when the rapture happens. The first is here with a commanding shout. In the original Greek that word commanding literally means the commanding voice of God. Think about when the Lord spoke from heaven at the baptism of Jesus. This is my son in whom I am well pleased. At the beginning of Revelation when he said, John come up here and see. That's the commanding voice of God. So announcing the rapture I have the commanding voice of God. I have with the voice of the archangel. Now in this verse that archangel is not mentioned but in its complimentary verse in another book, that's the archangel Michael. The voice of the archangel Michael will be heard at the moment of the rapture. So you know what that tells me Fred? It tells me not only do I have the commanding voice of God the father, I have the supporting presence of the angelic host. So I can tell you that the angelic host will be present and privy to the rapture because the voice of the archangel is heard. But here's the cool thing. The third one with the trumpet call of God. Go all the way back to the Old Testament. What was the trumpet call for? They used it for several things. But one of the most primary uses of the trumpet call of God was to call together God's congregation. All three of these sounds the commanding voice of God, the witness and presence of the angelic host, and this is the actual trumpet in heaven. This is not our earthly versions of it. This is the actual trumpet in heaven calling together the congregation of God. That is why this moment, hashtag big deal. This is a huge moment in what will be eternity future. What will be history future. It hasn't happened yet but it is a very big deal. So here's the question. What is the rapture? The rapture is believers in Jesus. Believers in Jesus himself. Those who have accepted Jesus' offer of salvation. Together, believers who have died, meaning anyone who has died during the church age, will rise from their graves and then together with them, we who are still alive. That means any Christian who has died or is currently alive that's what the rapture is. Now let's talk about when the rapture is going to happen. Point two. The rapture is imminent. The rapture is imminent. Perry did you get a water last night? Could you grab me one? I have like some post nasal drips. Oh thank you. Both of my kids have a sniffle and I fear that they are trying to send it my way. The rapture is imminent. Now let's turn to the gospel of Matthew. That's the first gospel in your New Testament. Matthew, specifically chapter 24. We're going to look at several verses here in Matthew chapter 24. The first of which will be verse 37. Matthew chapter 24. We're going to read 37 all the way to 44. So it's going to be multiple screens. But Matthew chapter 24 verse 37 to 44 also in the New Living. This is now Jesus speaking directly to his disciples. This is what he says. When the son of man returns, it will be like it was in Noah's day. In those days before the flood, the people were enjoying banquets and partings and weddings right up to the time Noah entered the boat. People didn't realize what was going to happen until the flood came and swept them all away. That is the way it will be when the son of man comes. Two men will be working together in the field. One will be taken, the other left. Two women will be grinding flour at the mill. One will be taken, the other left. So you too must keep watch. For you don't know what day your Lord is coming. Understand this. If a homeowner knew exactly when a burglar was coming, he would keep watch and not permit his house to be broken into. So you must be ready all the time. For the son of man will come when least expect it. The next thing I want you to understand about the rapture and I think Jesus says it very clear. The rapture is imminent. This is called the doctrine of eminency based on the word eminent, meaning it could happen at any time. So now let me deal with there are multiple views of the rapture. There are pre-tribulation raptures. There is mid-tribulation rapture and there is post-tribulation rapture. Obviously you can see here by what I'm teaching, I think scripture is pretty darn clear that the rapture is going to happen before the tribulation. Because can you do me a favor rewind back to my first verse? Let me show you something else. No no no rewind back two more slides. I need to go to Paul. Yes stop. Here. Then together with them talking about the dead Christians, we who are still alive. Paul's using the current tense. He had an expectation that the rapture could happen during his lifetime. Now fast forward back to to Jesus's words. There are no prerequisite events in scripture that are required to occur prior to the... I'll get... Oh we're going to talk about it because next week's message is all about the tribulation. The rapture is the single moment when the church is snatched up from heaven. The single moment where all Christians are snatched up and it is eminent. Kevin it could happen could happen right then. But boom we're all gone. The doctrine of eminency simply states Terry that the rapture is an eminent event and just like Jesus said here there are no prerequisite events that will tell us it's coming. It will just two are in the field, one's there and the other one's gone. Two ladies at the at the grinding wheel, one's there, the other one's gone. And then Jesus gives us the example of Noah. They were so busy with their lives and their partying and their wedding celebrations and no one knew God's plan except for Noah. And Noah was the only one that was ready. That's why I said keep watch. The doctrine of eminency is so important to the rapture because Melvin it could happen at any moment. The Lord Jesus can and will call his church at a fixed point in eternity future. And I don't know if that's five seconds, five minutes, five years, five decades. I don't know. All I can tell you is this. Jesus himself and the New Testament writers all fully expected to see the rapture at any moment. So there is no reason to then read back into scripture an idea that no we can't have the rapture yet because Angelina xyz hasn't happened. To do that is to actually add an event to scripture that's not there. Paul said we who are still alive, he expected the rapture could happen in his lifetime. Jesus said no one's going to know when it's coming. So the idea that you could put a prerequisite event, Kevin, it's just not scriptural. Now if you would like at a later time to further discuss why I believe the mid-trib and the post-trib views do not fully jive with scripture, I'd be happy to do that. But I don't want to get too far into that. I just want you to see Jesus taught it and Paul agrees. There is an eminency, there is a reality that the rapture could happen at any moment and that is super important for where we're going. It's super important. It is super important to where we're going that we realize the rapture could be tomorrow, the rapture could be tonight, the rapture could be at lunchtime today, or it could be a hundred years from now. Scripture does not say when it will be. All I can tell you is there are no more prerequisite events that are required to happen. So Lynette, God could pull that trigger at any day. Let's look at point three. The rapture is eminent. Next, Jesus himself will rapture the church. Again, rapturo, to be caught up or carried away by force is really the literal meaning of that Latin word. Jesus himself will rapture the church. If you're in Matthew, turn a couple more gospels to the gospel of John, fourth gospel in the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. John chapter 14. Again, here are the words of Jesus. John chapter 14 verses 1 through 3, also in the New Living translation. Jesus says this, don't let your heart be troubled. Trust in God and trust also in me. There is more than enough room in my father's home. If it were not so, would I have told you that I am going to prepare a place for you? When everything is ready, I will come and get you so that you will always be with me where I am. This is Jesus himself teaching his disciples, speaking of the amount of time that will happen and what will happen at the rapture. I want you to understand, an angel does not come back to rapture the church. Jesus did not staff it out. He did not contract it out. He did not roll the dice to see which angel has to go get my people. Jesus himself, the savior of the world, is coming to rapture the church. There are no substitutes. There are no misplacements. Jesus himself. Now we saw in the first verse, there are several audible sounds there. Obviously, the archangel, the angelic host, is witness to this event. But it is the savior himself, the one who founded the church, on whose blood the church has started. It is he who is going to come and retrieve that church. Now again, who is involved in the rapture? Church age believers. This does not count Old Testament believers, nor does it count anyone who comes to Christ during the tribulation, which Fred will be the entire focus of next week's message. He's just talking about the tribulation. But since we're talking about a pre-tribulation rapture, Jesus himself will come and he will receive unto himself all people who have believed in him from the time he rose until whatever time it is that the rapture occurs. I can't tell you when that latter bookmark is, but every single person who believed in Jesus during the age of the church will be raptured by the very person of Jesus. You'll understand why that's super important in a minute, but just understand it's eminent and it could be, it will be Jesus himself. Now here's your next point, and this is one that's also very important, but a lot of people get wrong. We will have new bodies at the rapture. We will have new bodies at the rapture. If you're in John, you need to go a couple books closer to the end of your Bible. We're looking at the book of Philippians chapter 3 verses 20 and 21. Philippians chapter 3 verses 20 and 21. This is Paul writing to the church at Philippi. Here's what he says, but we, meaning Christians, members of the church age, are citizens of heaven where the Lord Jesus Christ lives, and we are eagerly waiting for him to return as our savior. He will take our mortal bodies and change them into glorious bodies like his own. Why is this a very important detail of the rapture? Well, number one, the mortal bodies in which we currently live are what's called corruptible. They break down over time. We get older. You know what I mean? We get older. Some of you just need to get out of bed in the morning and snap, crackle, pop. Your Rice Krispies let you know you're getting older. I was walking down a set of stairs at Disney the other day, and my knee went like, I mean the whole bend, it just went, I went, I'm too young to make that sound. Stop it. Our mortal bodies are corruptible. They get older. They break down over time. How could then we expect, Lynette, that the mortal body we currently live in would be able to spend eternity with Jesus? The mortal body cannot last an eternity length of time. We are given a new glorified body. Now, my Tuesday Night Bible studyers, what is the best evidence in Scripture for what our glorified bodies look like? We just talked about it. Yes. Jesus' resurrected body that was on earth after the resurrection, but before the ascension. He was able to be touched because he said, Thomas, touch the wound in my hand, touch my side. But he was able to pass through a locked door or just appear in the middle of a room. His body was supernatural while also corporeal. It was tangible when he chose it to be, I mean in his eminence, but it was also supernatural. This is the best example we have in Scripture for what our glorified bodies will be like. Will we have the teleporting capabilities that Jesus had? I can't tell you that because Jesus is also God. So we have to give him credit that he's God, not only in an incorruptible form, but he is God himself. Now, however, I can tell you this. Angelina, if Jesus has promised that we get to spend eternity with him, he's going to give us a body that is capable of his promise being true because God cannot be a liar. That's why the new body is super important. We will get a new body at the rapture. Now, let's talk about it. Who's involved in the rapture? Church-age saints. Paul was pretty clear. The dead saints will rise and be given their new non-corruptible body immediately. Those of us who are still alive and on earth when the rapture happens will somehow be transformed in that mid-air movement, but by the time we get together with Christ in the air, we will have the glorified body, not the corruptible one. How does that work? I don't know. Ask Jesus when we get there. I can tell you what Scripture says and I can tell you what Scripture doesn't say. Jesus does not say whether there will be an assembly line process, whether you have to take, you know, numbers like at the deli. Like, I can't tell you that much detail, but I can tell you this. We will receive these new glorious or glorified bodies and the best scriptural example I can give you of what that body looks like is the risen Savior post-resurrection, prior ascension while he was on earth. Scripture says that he walked, he ate, he interacted, he touched, he had a physical nature to his body and yet it had a supernatural nature because he raised from the dead. He was able to appear in the middle of locked rooms. He brought encouragement. Like, this is the best scriptural example I can give you. When someone tries to start telling you exactly what your glorified body looks like, be very careful. Ask them to quote the references because there are a lot of ideas out there. There's a lot of theories. People want to go extra biblical and the problem is once you take one step out of Scripture, it's so easy to take the next one and the next one and then Fred, we end up way over here and the problem with way over here is it's actually contradictory to Scripture. The first step or two might have been an educated guess, but if you keep walking down that slippery slope of inventing ideas that aren't founded in Scripture, you're going to find yourself in a very dangerous territory. So I can tell you this. All church age saints will receive a new glorified body at the time of the rapture. How exactly that process will happen? That's where we have to have faith and leave it up to the Lord Almighty that he is that powerful. Again, he did speak the universe into existence in six days. So let's not really question how powerful he is. I'll just bet that he'll do it. We will have glorified bodies at the rapture and here's your fifth blank this morning. Our deeds will be judged by Christ. Here's where we have to talk about a very important theological event. Our deeds will be judged by Christ. Our final verse this morning comes from 2nd Corinthians chapter 5 verse 10. 2nd Corinthians chapter 5 verse 10. For we must all stand before Christ to be judged. We will each receive whatever we deserve for the good or evil we have done in this earthly body. Here's something that most Christians don't know. There is more than one judgment in the end times. Everybody, you know Lynette, we automatically go right to the big hell no hell, go no go judgment. But think it through. Angelina, if all of the people who are involved in the rapture have accepted Christ as their savior, are we talking about a salvation judgment? No, we can't be because all of the people involved are already saved. So that is why there are actually two different judgments. One is that we are saved by the Lord this judgment is commonly referred to as the judgment seat of Christ. The big judgment that everybody thinks about the hell no hell judgment is called the great white throne judgment and that will happen in a later message. What I'm talking about here is called the judgment seat of Christ. The only people Julie involved in this judgment right now are Christians. So it is not a judgment of salvation because salvation has already been decided. They're only people who've accepted Jesus are involved in this judgment. So it can't be a salvation judgment. So Doug if it's not a salvation judgment what is it? Here's the judgment seat of Christ. We will be judged based on our earthly actions. Your earthly actions play directly into your eternal significance. At the rapture Jesus will call up all church age saints live and dead. Give them the new bodies in the air and the we go to this. This is called the judgment seat of Christ. Now what everybody has to say here is will I be sent to hell at the judgment seat of Christ? No. This is not a salvation judgment. Lynette everyone who's standing in this judgment is already saved. So what am I being judged for? Your deeds. If you want to think about it this way this is the end of the year reward ceremony for Christians. You know that the end of the school year everybody gives out those rewards. Doug that's really what this is like because keep in mind we've got tribulation, millennial earthly kingdom, and eternal kingdom still to come. Who do you think is involved in helping Christ rule his earthly kingdom and eternal kingdom? The church. This judgment right here is completely based on the way you live your life and it will have direct play into how you spend your eternity. But it's not a matter of am I going to hell or not. That's already been decided. Fred you have accepted Christ. You are going to be in heaven. The question remains how you gonna be living in heaven? Yes we will be with God but God is pretty clear there are rewards for the good or evil that we have done in this earthly body that will be awarded then. If you go through scripture there are several crowns that are mentioned. Jesus even said store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. There will be a rewarding both good and bad. Now the question is how does Christ reward the bad? Well think about it this way and now I'm gonna extrapolate and paint a picture. Is this picture completely biblical? No it's for an illustrative purpose. We are now standing at the judgment seat of Christ. Fred come here you look old and judgmental. Come here. All right give me give me give me your best judge face. You're gonna be my judge. Great and just hold that just hold that right there. Right Fred is Jesus. Right so just get that laugh out go ahead. Fred is Jesus and Angelina you come and stand at the judgment seat of Christ and God goes through your life and he looks at how much you obeyed his word. How much you invested in his kingdom. What did you do with the money he gave you? What did you do the skill set he gave you? How did you accomplish the mission he gave you? And then based on all of those things he will give you some form of reward whether they be crowns, whether they be a position in the earthly government that Jesus is about to build. That will be granted to you at this. But this face right here is not sending you to hell. It is judging your earthly deeds and putting you in place in what is about to be the Messiah's kingdom. All right thanks go sit down. Everybody give Fred a hand. Great does that now make sense? The judgment seat of Christ is not about salvation it is about reward. Now what happens how do we will be rewarded for the evil we have done? And this is a joke okay I'm not this is in scripture but Melissa somebody's got to take out the trash. Somebody's got to be the sanitation department in Jesus's new kingdom because Jesus's kingdom will be earthly for a thousand years. We're going to get into that later too. The judgment seat of Christ is not a salvation issue it's a rewarding issue. Those of us who spent our lives in his service living in faith will be rewarded for such. Those of us who are saved but didn't invest in his kingdom, did not obey his principles, did not read his word will be rewarded as such. Does that make sense? I don't want you to confuse the judgment seat of Christ and the great white throne judgment that we'll get to in a few weeks. This is a judgment only for Christians and it is a reward based judgment. The way you live your life will directly play out in front of Jesus right here right now and the judgment seat of Christ happens directly after the rapture of the church. Now does all of that make sense? So everything I've said so far our deeds will be judged by Christ. We're going to have new bodies. Jesus himself will rapture the church. The rapture is eminent and the word rapture actually means being caught up. Why is all of that important? Why did I say there will be time for a question on your connection card? Just hang back because here comes the close and it's a good one. Why is all of this important? Let me tell you a small story about marriage in the Old Testament. Old Testament marriage had three phases. Angelina you recently got married. Can I use you and Eric as an example? If you and Eric were an Old Testament couple this is how things would play out. Eric and Eric's father possibly would come to you and to your family and they would broker the contract of your marriage. Now today we have a tradition much like when young men have to call the woman's father and get permission to marry. This is where this comes from. So Eric would come to your family and they would broker the contract to make you Eric's bride. That contract usually involved what's called a dowry. He had to pay for the right to marry you. Today the dowry is most usually given in the form of a diamond ring. When someone asks you to marry them you're like hey where's my ring at? The ring is the symbol of what used to be the dowry. So Eric would come to your home and he and his father would broker a deal between you and your father to arrange the marriage to come. This is where the engagement period begins. In fact we still have that today. Then your engagement happens but you don't go from the proposal right to the wedding. There is a period of time in the middle where Eric would go home and in the Old Testament they would begin to get the affairs in order to separate Eric from his father's home and he would begin to prepare a place, a home that he would bring you to. So this engagement period could last for up to a year or so. If you want a scriptural example for that think about Joseph and Mary in the Christmas story. They were betrothed but not married yet. They were in this this engagement period. The contract has been brokered. The payment has been made. You are now betrothed or we call today engaged to Eric but you haven't been married yet. Here's where it gets really romantic. At a point at the end of the engagement period the groom or in the Bible we call the bridegroom would come for his girl and he would come at night with his male compatriots. We now call them groomsmen and he would come to your home at night and they would have a torch lit processional from your home to his home and you and all your girlfriends, we call them bridesmaids today, would be dressed and would be ready. How do I know that? The parable of the ten virgins. Go back and read it. It's so pretty. The parable of the ten virgins and you and your friends would go with Eric and his friends and there would be this torch lit processional to take you from your home to his home where the marriage ceremony would actually happen and then there would be a large supper, think wedding at Cana, right? Jesus's first miracle water and wine is the wedding at Cana. So you have three stages. The first stage is the contract stage, the beginning of the engagement period. The second stage is the engagement period while you're still separated but you're betrothed and then the third stage happens where the processional occurs, the actual wedding takes place and then the marriage supper occurs. Why is the rapture so super important? Because the church is the bride of Christ and at the cross the contract was paid in full. The contract was purchased and paid and Jesus bought his bride with his blood on the cross and then what did he say to his disciples? I'm going to prepare a place for you and when it's done, when it's ready, my church, my bride, I'm coming for you and I'm going to take you to be where I am and you'll be with me forever. We're in the middle of that engagement period and our savior is going to come with a torch lit processional. What is the torch? The flame of the Holy Spirit. We've been given the Holy Spirit. What did Jesus say? Don't leave, wait in Jerusalem. Why? Because there's a gift that I have coming for you. The flame of the Holy Spirit is the torch that you're waiting and then he will come and get us and take us to where he is and we will become one and we'll be with him forever and that's where the marriage supper of the lamb happens after the rapture because God wants us to be with him. The contract for our soul has been paid. It has not been consummated yet. We've not been joined as one with Christ as the bride yet. That's why the rapture is so important. Jesus is coming back to take his bride to be with him. He's gone to prepare the place for us and then we will go there. That's why the rapture is such a big deal because Jesus is waiting for the bride that he's already brokered the deal for. He's already paid the contract. Your soul was bought and paid for the moment he shed his blood on the cross and you are a part of that kingdom that is to come. You are a part of the very bride of the Savior. We are just waiting for him to come get us. That's why the rapture is such a beautiful moment because finally at long last the Savior of the world will come and collect his bride and together we will be with Jesus for eternity. That's why the rapture is so important. That's why it's such a big deal and that's why it's so beautiful is because after long last the Savior will have the bride that he bought 2000 years ago. He gave us the engagement ring of the cross. You want to think about that way. The cross was our promise. I'm coming for you. You're forgiven. I'm going to build that place for you and Melissa when I come for you I'll be you'll be with me forever. You will always be where I am from that from the point of the rapture on the churches with Jesus wherever he is. It's not beautiful. The two have finally become one. Just think about the last wedding you were at. What happens? Usually the preacher guy and the groomsmen they're all standing up there and then what's the quintessential moment in every wedding that you know the bride has entered the room? The music. That's the trumpet call of God. That's the moment when the bride is ready and then we go to the judgment seat. If we get our new bodies and if you actually look in the in Revelation it talks about the adornment of the bride are the deeds in which we lived on this earth. That's us putting on the veil and doing the makeup and putting on the beautiful white dress. That's us getting ready to walk down the aisle and be joined with our Savior. It is I gotta say in doing the study this is the most beautiful moment that I didn't know was there until I studied it until I read it and then all of a sudden it just started to click and I was like oh my goodness this is awesome. This is why I was so super excited about this message. Now it's a little difficult for me as a guy to get in the mind of being a bride. It is. I didn't wear the white dress. I didn't even wear makeup on my wedding day. But I can tell you I remember standing at the front of the church with my father and seeing the white dress and seeing Melanie come down that aisle is a moment that I'll never forget. I've gotten the opportunity to do a couple weddings since then and standing next to the guy Eric and Angelina's was the most recent wedding that I did sitting next to Eric and watching his knees almost buckle the moment Angelina came into view was a beautiful moment. I'm sorry I told you I was going to pick on you. It was gorgeous like I thought for a second me and his dad we're gonna have to grab him by the elbows and it wasn't anything verbal Kevin. It was just it was like an exhale. There was this exhale moment when he caught Angelina coming down and he got that full-on glimpse of her in the white dress. That's the rapture. The rapture is the moment Jesus comes for you because he's been waiting and you'll hear that and know that God has been calling you to be with him. That's why this moment is so beautiful. Do me a favor take your connection card and a tissue if anybody needs one. I don't often get the opportunity to have those really emotional moments but I got super ver clem just trying to put this together. I was talking to Melanie about it in the car and it was just beautiful. Every week at C3 I want you to take a next step. I don't want this morning's message to just be inspiring although I hope it is. Although I hope you are excited about the fact that the rapture is imminent that God could come back at any moment and take you to be with him. I want you to be excited about that. Winifred is excited but I want it to be more than that. I want it to be something that will go with you Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. So let's take a look. This week my next step is this week I will look up oh that didn't get changed one of the covenants at study home. It was supposed to be one of the points from this morning's sermon. Any one of the points you want. The fact that the rapture is imminent. Go and look at weddings in the Old Testament. You'll see it's there. It's beautiful but this next this week I will have a family Bible study about this week's message. That's pretty much going to be there this whole series because we're talking about some pretty some pretty next to level some pretty big stuff. Maybe you have the opportunity just take your just take the sermon notes home and read the passages together and talk about them. There is nothing wrong with examining scripture together as a family. Third I want help growing in my faith. We have a very great discipleship plan here at c3. This is why I say give me 20 minutes of your time and I'll give you a personal prescription for how to grow spiritually. For next year I'm already starting to work on a more in-depth participatory discipleship plan. I love discipleship. It's what I love to be about. I've gotten away from it because we had to do some structural stuff with the church but in our deacon elder camping trip that's coming up that's one of the main things we're going to talk about is instilling a more intensive discipleship plan for those who want it. It'll be voluntary you don't have to jump in. If you just want to give me 20 minutes we'll talk about where you're at in your faith. We'll define a couple next steps. We'll give you something you can do tomorrow to start growing. It's that easy so please consider that and then finally this I will memorize 2nd Corinthians chapter 5 verse 10. That's the last one. Our deeds will be judged by Christ. Remember that your life on this earth will have direct impact on your eternity. It will have direct impact on the rewards you're given from Christ or maybe the reprimand you're given from Christ. What about that? Those of us, a lot, I think about it a lot, those of us who did not do well with what he gave us, who did not honor him with our skills and our talents and our abilities and everything else. What will he say to us at that moment? I gotta say that's one of the more frightening things when I think about the end times. I'm not worried about going to hell. I know Jesus and I love him. I'm worried about when he looks at me he said, Bill what about all of those people I gave you this great gift for talking and for teaching. How come you couldn't reach more people? I'd be like well darn Jesus I don't have a good answer for that one. You know reach as many as you can and pray about everybody else. Do me a favor the right hand side of your connection card there are basically two events that are coming up. The C3 costume party that's this Saturday at my house. Again I will say it Terry and Fred your costumes must be approved by your spouses first so please check with your please check with your wives before coming because I know you both well enough that I need to say that. So Julie and Lynette you are required to approve your husband's costume choices and then also the identify class is coming up on Sunday November the 8th. That is I believe two weeks from today. Next Sunday will be November the 1st the Sunday after that will be November the 8th. If you are already a member of our church that means you went through to discover class you accepted the idea to become a member. Identify as your next step. Identify will help you learn what your spiritual gifts are. There are tons of spiritual gifts in the Bible and we have a test that I found that is fabulous. It's super easy to take and it will help you understand the shape that God made you. Why is that important? This is the way I'll say it. Amanda you ever try to eat soup with a fork? Yes actually how easy was it? Not a spork I mean an actual but straight up fork. How easy was it? Now was it chowder or was it soup? And did it work? No it didn't. Why? Why didn't it work? Wrong shape. You put the wrong shape in the wrong job. That's the point of knowing your spiritual gifts. There are different jobs in the church that are form-fitted for certain kinds of people and I don't Fred I'll be honest I don't want you volunteering in a job that's not your shape. Not because I don't think you would be faithful. Not because I don't think you might enjoy it. But the reality is when you put someone in a job that doesn't match their shape they're frustrated they overwork they get very little out of it and that's how you cause burnout. That's how you make people not come back to church is you stick somebody who doesn't like kids in the nursery. Just being honest right? How many people if I said oh there's a nursery position open next week would be like oh oh oh you know it takes a person who really enjoys kids to be in the nursery not just somebody who's available. I don't mean to pick on that my kids are in the nursery I love our nursery workers. We have a great team right now but I want you to know more and here's the other thing Julie the more you understand your spiritual gifts the better you will be at personal evangelism because you'll know what your strengths are and what your strengths are not. You know one of my strengths is not I get a witness for everybody organization you know just not one of my great strengths teaching that's a strength of mine so God's put me in a place where I can use my gifts. That's why if you are a member of C3 I want you to come to the identify class. If you're not yet a member we're basically doing every other month so next month will be identify and the month after that will be discover and we'll go back and forth. So do me a favor please take your connection card make sure the front of it is filled out the back of it you can see there I have a question. If you have a question about something that was mentioned in this morning's message that you would like answered actually can I have the slide that has all the weeks on it. Let me show you what we're going to be looking at next Sunday talking about the tribulation what it is what's going to happen the Sunday after that the earthly kingdom or you may know as the millennial kingdom Jesus's kingdom on earth then on the 15th the final judgment the 29th the eternal kingdom of Christ that's different from the earthly kingdom and then on 12 6th we're going to do a Q&A. You can ask any question about something that came up in this series and I'm going to do my dirtiest to make it through all of them. Hopefully some of you will ask the same question to make my job easier but if you have a question about something that was mentioned this morning please put it on your connection card because when we get to 12 6th I'm going to go through and I'm going to answer them. If we don't have any good questions I just got to come up with something else to teach. So do me a favor help me out if you have a question about something that was mentioned this morning about the rapture if here's another one if you are listening to the recording you're not here and you have a question send me a text send me an email hit me up on Facebook send me a homing pigeon something but let me know what your questions are you don't have to just be on the connection card if you think about it later on in the week you can send me a text or an email and I will make sure I'm keeping track of all the questions and we're building it up for the the Q&A review. So do me a favor who's up this morning Doug you're up right all right Doug and whoever your compatriot is this week do me a favor check your connection card make sure your name is on the front of it. Yes that's right we're not talking about the walking dead not talking in fact I do have a friend of mine who was preaching revelation like a couple months ago and that was actually the title of his message was called the walking dead which didn't make a lot of theological sense now that I've studied it better but it was a funny title. In a moment we're going to take up our offering this morning to collect our ties and offerings you are more than welcome to put whatever you like in this envelope if you would like to receive credit for your gift if you do not want to use the envelope you are welcome to not do that but please do me a favor and put it in the offering basket anyway it helps us to recycle the envelopes and be a better steward of our investment of our offering envelopes believe it or not just recycling the offering envelopes makes a single box last almost three times as long that's just the truth because some people I'm an electronic giver I put my envelope back every week because I don't use it I prefer to use the electronic giving the text giving it's all there for you the way I look at it is this way we have pretty much every means of giving available except one and that's because I'm not going to pay two thousand dollars for an actual kiosk where you could swipe your card at church I'm just not going to do that you can use your smartphone if you like you can text if you like you can use the envelope if you like you can just take a crumpled bit of whatever and put it in the offering if you like whatever you want to do we've got multiple mediums for you but I want to ask you to develop a pattern of giving I'll tell you the truth since we talked about the judgment seat of Christ your giving will be an issue at the judgment seat of Christ it will be like I don't mean to be offensive to anybody but think about it what is your giving really it is stewardship when God says like the parable of the servants what did you do with what I gave you Melissa that's really what stewardship is what did you do with what I gave you I hope that the Lord will be pleased with what I have done with what he gave me I hope that the Lord will be pleased with what you have done with what he gave you but don't don't mistake the truth of it you're giving to the church not this one church now I'm not trying to manipulatively get money for our church your support of God's global church the the full bride that means you could personally support a missionary you could give to Samaritan's purse you could support any multiple ministries but your giving to his kingdom not this one church his kingdom will be an issue at the judgment seat of Christ so don't miss out on that opportunity so please do me a favor grab your connection card your offering envelope or whatever you have you I'm going to pray really quick and our ushers will will collect it heavenly father thank you for just thank you for helping me to learn about the rapture Lord thank you for helping me to try to communicate it in a way that is pointful God I pray that you would bless every single person that gave electronically during the previous week Lord I pray you would bless every single person who gives this morning help us to be the kind of stewards that when we make it to the judgment seat of Christ we will hear well done my good and faithful servant help us to be good and faithful in that which you have given us in your amazing name we pray amen