Well good morning everybody. Welcome to Christ Community Church. My name is Bill and I am the lead pastor. Before we get into our message this morning, we're going to talk, stop, and have a quick social moment. So if I could have the social outreach slide up here, do me a favor, take out your cell phone, take a picture, make a comment. Please check in on Facebook, use our hashtag, let people know that our church is here, that we love people. I say all the time everybody gets to do this and I never get a chance, so please do me a favor and stall for a minute so I actually get to take out my phone and take a picture. Why do we do this? Well Melissa, I know that you get it, but simply when we put things out online, that's letting our friends and our family know that our church is here. And I believe it's way more likely that people will attend a church when they know someone, Dustin. Your friends, your family, your cousin Devin, way more likely to come in and check out a church when he knows somebody who goes there because that makes that church feel safe. So please do me a favor, take a picture, take a selfie. Kevin, is it okay if I get you guys in here? Don't break your camera. That's going to be my shot for the morning. All right, so please during the sermon feel free to keep your cameras out. If I say something that you find cool, feel free to live tweet it, take a shot, take a picture. If your cell phone is going to be a distraction, I'm sorry you are disqualified, put it away. But as long as you are K, keeping your phone out and being able to pay attention, please help us share the message of where our church is at. You know, we don't have a big sign outside, we don't have our own property. We are for the most part exactly what the New Testament church is. They met in a place, they shared good time together, they studied the word, they prayed. Most of the time there was food involved with church in the New Testament because they they met around meal time, that's what fellowship was. And then the next thing is I want to give a quick plug. Next Sunday we begin end of days. I've been working on that voice. In a world, like the movie trailer, in a world where the Bible is the word of God, only one book tells us what will happen. Working on my movie trailer voice. If the, if the, if the if the, if the, if the pastor thing ever fails, lads that's my backup. I'm going to be at home with a mic. In a world. But no, on a real note, next week we begin our study of revelation. Several people in the church asked me, they said, Pastor Bill, will you please teach the book of revelation? Absolutely. If you ever have a request for a sermon series, a topic, something you want to hear taught, guess what Fred? That's my job. Believe it or not, it shouldn't be my job all the time to figure out what the church wants to learn. Amanda, if there is a topic, an idea that you want to see taught on a Sunday, you absolutely can tell me that. In the C3 app, there's a button that says service request, or you can write it in on your connection card. But we had several people request to hear about the book of revelation the end of days. So beginning next Sunday, we will launch a six week series examining what does the Bible say is going to happen? I know every generation, when they look at their lives, we interpret the book of revelation, Dustin, as if we're going to experience it today. That's part of the human element of interacting with the word of God. The reality is the Bible gives some very specific key elements that will let us know when the book of revelation is happening. So this is also a great week. Invite a friend. This is a very culturally relevant topic. I mean, how much did you see hashtag blood moon on social media? Was it two weeks ago? I mean, everybody was talking about the blood moons and the tetrad and the end of the world. Guess what? The Bible does give some clear instruction and starting next Sunday, we're going to get into it and examine what does the Bible say about the end of days. So please, if you know of a friend who's interested in coming to church, this should be a really fun and serious to get into because Trevor, I think a lot of people want to know about it. So that's end of days. This morning we are going to conclude our optics series. Now if you've not been here for all of optics, that's okay. You can catch up with our messages either on our website or in the C3 Connect app. Now one thing I have to mention about the C3 Connect app is, Amanda the church had to make some budget cuts so I stopped paying for the app and I was under the well impression that the app no longer existed. I found out this week the app still exists. I've lost the ability to update it but the app itself exists. You can still go to the iTunes app store or your Google Play or your Amazon app store, search for C3 Connect, it's still there. Thankfully, since Judy I planned ahead, the majority of the app reads from outside sources. The sermon is an outside source, the five-minute moment is an outside source, so the app still stays updated even though we're not paying for it because it reads from outside sources. So I announced a few weeks ago to take the C3 Connect app off your phone. You don't have to do that. Go to your local app store, you can download it, it still works, the sermons stay updated, the five-minute moments stay updated, and all the forms that are in there. If you want a short link you can just type in appapp.c3fam.org and that'll take you right to the website and if you're on a smartphone it'll go, hey do you want to install this? And you can click yes. So the C3 Connect app is still live and vibrant, it still works. What is Optics? Optics has been our examination of the word of God as if the Bible was an optometrist. Terry you have glasses. I assume at some point you went to an eye doctor and got those glasses, is that correct? Like maybe way back in the day. And when you visit that optometrist's office you walk in the door with three things in mind. First, I have a sight vision problem I need to fix. Second, the eye doctor most likely has the skills and tools available to help me correct my vision problem. And third, I am going to get a prescription to help change my vision. That is the way we've been examining the word of God and this morning is no different. If you look at the back of your bulletin you'll see there we got some sermon blanks. I want to ask you to follow along with me this morning. The sermon we are going to go about this morning is examining the church. Judy what is the proper view of the church? Does anybody know what the actual theological term for the study of the church is called? It's a really really long word. Now eschatology is the end of the world but it does start with an E. Ecclesiology. Ecclesiology is the study of the church. This morning we're going to look at the church but every series we do at C3 has a key thought. So here's the key thought for optics. How you view affects what you do. This is my last week so you got to say with me. How you view affects what you do. How you see life, Jill will directly affect how you live life. What you see in your family affects how you treat them. What you see of your friends affects how you treat them. Judy how you see yourself attracts how you affects how you treat yourself and the church is no different. How you view the church will directly affect how you are involved in the church. So and if we're going to be honest we should go back and make sure our vision, our perspective of the church is correct. So let me give you your first blank this morning. Here's your first blank. All of these start out with the church of Jesus Christ is. You can see that. The church of Jesus Christ is one body comprised of all believers. The church of Jesus Christ is one body comprised of all believers. One body comprised of all believers. If you have your bibles with you this morning whether they're physical or digital turn or click with me to the book of Romans. The book of Romans in the new testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans chapter 12. We're going to look at verses four and five. This is Romans 12 four and five and I'm going to have it for you on the screen in the new international version or the NIV. She's back there finding it in her Bible and it's totally cool. Romans chapter 12 verses four and five in the NIV says this. These are the words of Paul writing to the church in Rome. For just as each of us has one body with many members and these members do not all have the same function. So in Christ we though many form one body and each member belongs to the others. This is where we have to start Sabina when we imagine the church. The first thing we have to realize is our church like c3 our church little c church is not the same as the big c church. When you read the word church in the Bible Amanda it does not apply to this body although it does in a sense. The word church means every Christian who has ever lived since Jesus rose again. When we say the church of Jesus Christ the body of Christ we are talking about every Christian since the church started till now Dan until the end of days that makes up the whole church. So Paul is not just talking to the church at Rome. He's not just talking to us today he's talking about the relationship that should exist between every Christian who has ever lived. Now with that much larger understanding for just as each of us has one body with many members many parts. I used to make a joke all the time when we used to try to figure out who was what part somebody's the right hand somebody's the left hand somebody's the foot somebody's this well unfortunately somebody has to end up being the armpit somebody has to be the fingernail and I didn't want to start naming names so I think you get the point and don't point fingers either. Listen you're up here at the front row I'll smack you okay. I know that's a problem. Just as each of our bodies have multiple members you have multiple organs and I'll go you one deeper here's church 201 your body has multiple systems. You have a nervous system a skeletal system an endocrine system a muscular system all those systems in your body are made up of multiple pieces that work together to do a job and then that system combined with all the other systems keeps the entire body healthy. This is the analogy of the body of Christ. Julie you are one component of one part of one system in the whole body. I am one part of one system in the whole body. No church is any one person and no one person is the church. You see that when we start realizing the church the entire body of Christ is every Christian who's ever lived it takes us way outside of just our little church or you know just one denomination or just one town or one community. The body of Christ is every Christian who's ever lived everywhere on the planet. When you realize you've got that big perspective wow now all of a sudden where I fit is a much smaller piece of the puzzle than if the whole of the church of Jesus Christ was just us in this room today. Then all of a sudden we'd have you know maybe hanging multiple jobs. The reality is we are all a component of the overall church but we do not have the same function. People say all the time well why why does he say that? I think he says it for the most obvious reason he's stepping on the body analogy. Your skin does not do the same thing that your stomach does. That would be weird. Your eyes do not do the same thing that your nose does. Also weird. So Nelson why do we think that you and I should have to be the same in the church? Why is that not also weird? Why does all of a sudden when Nelson and I start going to church together we're also both musicians why is there this unsaid and unfair and unrealistic pressure that all of a sudden he ought to have to look the same and we have to act the same and we have to talk the same and all of those cookie cutter things that you hear all of a sudden we've lost the body perspective and now we want to just put out uh Kim it's like a cookie cutter Christian factory and everybody's got to be the same. The beauty of the body of Christ is the diversity within the unity of the church. The beauty of who we are as Christians is Jill that you and I are different and we both love Jesus and that's enough to keep us related and then look how he ends this verse though they form one body each member belongs to the others. The intended relationship within the Christian church is co-ownership. I belong to Dan. Dan belongs to me. Now that it's not belongs to in the sense of slavery ownership it means belongs to in the sense of brotherly communication, brotherly accountability. I should be accountable to my brother in Christ regardless of whether I'm the pastor or not. Dan should be accountable to another brother in Christ regardless of his position in the church or not because we're all only one component of one big body. The intended definition of the church is this interconnectedness where we all depend on each other. Take a look at your second blank this morning. The church of Jesus Christ this is my favorite. A place of healing not judgment. A place of healing not judgment. Some of you may saw the Instagram post I posted for the church last week said the church is a hospital for the healing not a palace for the perfect. That was my kind of quippy way of taking a look at this verse. Let's look in the gospel of Matthew. So the first book in the New Testament Matthew chapter 9 we'll look at verses 11 through 13. This is the MEV or the modern English version. This is I think the most recent version of the Bible to hit the market. Matthew 9 chapter 9 verse 11 through 13 in the modern English version says this. These are Pharisees speaking to Jesus himself. When the Pharisees saw it they said to his disciples why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? So that tells you Dan what they saw. They saw Jesus dining and sharing a meal shown with people that would have been labeled less than by the religious elite. But when Jesus heard that he said to them those who are well do not need a physician but those who are sick. Go and learn what this means. I desire mercy not sacrifice for I have come to call the righteous. I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. For some reason ever since this conversation took place which is technically before the age of the church because Jesus is still walking around and this is still Old Testament under the law Jesus is trying to teach that there is a better value. He's saying first the healthy or the those who do well do not need a physician who are well do not need a physician. There's this idea Dustin that I hear people all the time they go I can't go to church like I gotta get so many things right in my life before I go to church. Kevin that doesn't make any sense to me. That make any sense at all because you know what nobody cleans the fish before they catch it. Right? Nobody in their right mind tries to clean a fish that they haven't even caught yet. The whole point of the church is that we are to be like I said on Instagram the hospital for the hurting. The church was designed as the place that would be ultimately accepting of anyone regardless of their flaws because we all got them. Okay? Just take the churchy veil off for a second. We all have our flaws. My mentor Pastor Rick Grant he says all the time Dan everybody's broken. Some people just wear it on the outside and what he's saying is everybody's got their issues okay. You've got your issues your family's got its issues no need to point right now. Your family's got its issues everybody's got issues Kim. Why should we think then that your issues should keep you from coming to church? You know why? Because sadly people have forgotten what Jesus said here and the church has turned into a place of judgment. Let's just let's put it all on the table right? Why do people not want to go to church? Because Christians are judgmental and why do they say that? Because Christians are judgemental. You know I mean let's just call a spade a spade. Sometimes in the design here's the real here's the real balance of it. Lena it is the church's job to help people grow to godly living. So at some point there's character issues those sin issues they should be challenged and they should be encouraged to live a godly lifestyle. The problem is when you challenge and encourage the first time they walk in the door it's not received as challenging encouragement it's received as judgment. When you walk in the door and before you can even say something you're made to feel unwelcome you're made to feel unworthy all of a sudden you're trying to create a standard of godly living rather than encourage godly living and that's exactly what the Pharisees were doing. The religious elite of Jesus's day would not even eat a meal with the type of people that Jesus and who's Jesus eating with? Tax collectors and sinners tax collectors and sinners. You know Terry I gotta pick on you again a couple of my pastor friends when they found out that I go and shoot pool with you on Thursday nights. You know their question to me was he said what does your church think about that? I said they either don't mind or haven't said anything. Hey hey kid you not you you give me another two months and I will get one of those cool players to come to church. I promise you that you give me another you can give me another little bit of time and I will get somebody to come to Jesus. But you know what that what they you know what they were really saying Melissa what they were saying was I couldn't do that because too many people in my church would question my motives. That's what they're really saying what they're really saying is this attitude of religious eliteism is an infection in the body of the church and we need some more white blood cells to set it right. There should be no reason that you can't be accepted at church because those who are well do not need a physician but those who are sick do. The healthy don't need no doctor international bill version right there. The healthy don't need no doctor sick people do that seems obvious but then he goes further but go and learn what this means I desire mercy not sacrifice. Now that is a quote from the old testament sacrifice was a type of offering given to God and what he's trying to tell the Pharisees here is Jill I desire your heart to be right rather than a bunch of religious actions that aren't in your heart. Mercy comes from the heart. Mercy is a response compassion love those are responses sacrifices are just religious rituals that can be reformed like a robot that Melvin don't reflect who we are on the inside. God desires your heart and then your actions but if you got to start it starts in the heart. I love the fact that people think we can make all these churchy rules that thou shalt this and thou shalt not this and shout this and if I control enough of the exterior then last God's gonna change your heart. That is the most jacked up thing I've ever heard in my life. It never works. Trevor you cannot change the internal by controlling the external but you know what you can do when the internal changes the external changes by proxy. That's the way it works you change the heart and then the life changes but if you don't have the stomach to put up with the kind of person who doesn't have the heart transplant yet you'll never get to the heart change. Thank you I worked hard on that one good. I desire mercy not sacrifice the heart's got to change first and then Nelson then we encourage the life change. Once you've got a relationship with somebody once we've built up a friendship now I can call you and be like yo player I saw the Instagram post what do you do that and now it's a challenge it's accountability it's not judgment because we've built up a rapport I know that his heart is in the right place and then the accountability comes in and that's what encourages godly living but you cannot right out of the gate expect the fish who's never been caught to be clean it just doesn't work. Here's your third blank this morning the church of Jesus Christ is responsible to spread the gospel. The church of Jesus Christ is responsible to spread the gospel if you're in Matthew go to the very next book in your Bible the gospel of Mark chapter 16 the gospel of Mark chapter 16 and we're going to look at verse 15 and 16 this is the ESV or the English standard version if you like one of these circle the letters on your bulletin and come see me after church I'll tell you a little bit about it and I'll help you get one and he said to them this is Jesus speaking to the disciples he said to them go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation stop who is left out of that sentence nada nobody zero covers every single person who has ever lived or going to live go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation second question who is he speaking to everyone as in the whole body thank you this is where ecclesiology comes into play this is dan where what you believe about the church drastically changes your approach to evangelism if you see this statement as only given to the disciples the original apostles then by nature dan you might see it as my job as the pastor to win souls but not yours you see how that works when people think that the great commission was only given to church leaders and not the whole body then your expectation is that I have to do all the evangelism and you just have to sit there but when you read this verse in context that he's talking about every member of the body then jill it becomes your job to also evangelize I don't get out of it I still have to lead the charge but jill it becomes your job and kim it becomes your job and shauna becomes your job and together because here's the obvious question which is the more likely scenario to reach every person on earth only people who call themselves pastor or every single person who calls himself a christian the bigger the army the bigger the win right that's just standard battle tactics usually the bigger army wins if we had every single member of the body of christ trained capable and compassionate enough to share their faith when the time was right the church would be more effective look at the thing about it in the reverse I've said this before I'll say it again the church is always one generation away from extinction you want the tweet quote for the day that's probably it the church is always one generation away from extinction miss diane the moment our generation of the church no longer sees it necessary to raise up the kids and the teens who are growing up in the church the church would die because faith is passed down from generation to generation now obviously the christian church is still here today because we're here today so obviously every generation of christians who's come before us took that as their job or we wouldn't be here christianity would have died out with the original apostles if it weren't for the fact that everyone took charge of the responsibility to share the gospel not just the church leaders now look at the latter half whoever believes in is baptized will be saved but whoever does not believe we will be condemned we looked at this a few weeks ago this does not teach baptism is necessary for salvation how do i know that because the latter half of the sentence says but whoever does not believe will be condemned it does not say whoever does not believe and is not baptized will be condemned in the first century amanda remember when someone got saved the immediate expectation is they got baptized the same day that's the way it happened so that's why the first half of the sentence whoever believes and is baptized will be saved because the writer of the gospel of mark judy his experience in church was you got saved and you got wet that's the way it works that's what happened guess what you got saved and don't hold your breath pastor likes to say hold them down till there are no more bubbles and then they're really saved that's an old that's just an old school pastor joke hold them down till the bubbles stop and then they're really asking for jesus so whoever believes and is baptized will be saved baptism was just expected it is not a component of salvation but whoever does not believe will be condemned we looked at this verse when we talked about your friends right all of your friends have an eternal destiny guess whose job it is to save your friends yours now let's take that a step further nelson it's your job to share the gospel with your friends whose job is it to make sure you're ready to do that mine it is my job to prepare you it is your job to go to war so the so the actually i prefer my job i think it's very fun i and it's probably why god created me for this because i enjoy it but the reality is if you are not ready to share your faith and lead someone to christ and i'm not asking anybody raise your hands but just in your mind answer the question do you feel prepared to fully lead someone to christ if the answer is yes then get on it if the answer is no then you need to put that on your connection card that you need to talk to me because that's my job i dan i can't help you get ready if you don't tell me you don't feel ready i can't do my job help me help you to help you right help me help you to help you because i can't do my job if you don't tell me and that's the problem is we don't allow for growth we just assume oh i've been going to church i know everything about the bible i know everything about jesus i know everything about bible translation i can you know guess what most of of my opportunities in sharing faith with other people is playing defense like on thursday nights i get asked all i mean the most random questions on the planet and i'm playing defense this week i got asked why do i believe the bible is the word of god well all of you know i have that arrow ready to go like just ask me that question again and i'm gonna nail that bullseye why because amanda i prepared for it i studied i learned i read i assimilated a bunch of knowledge and now when that question comes up bing i can bullseye that shot every time but i made myself ready part of your job in taking the responsibility of sharing the gospel is to make yourself ready for questions and the next blank is the other half the church of jesus christ is responsible to make disciples the church of jesus christ is responsible to make disciples these are really two halves of the same whole but they need to be looked at separately to be fully developed the church of jesus christ is responsible to make disciples if you're in mark go back to matthew but literally like the last page of matthew matthew chapter 28 we're gonna look at verses 19 and 20 and this is in the new king james version so matthew chapter 28 verses 19 and 20 in the new king james says this go therefore and make disciples of all the nations baptizing them in the name of the father and of the son and of the holy spirit teaching them to observe all that i have commanded you and lo i am with you always even to the end of the age first question who's talking jesus himself second question who is he talking to the body that's right everyone so this verse and i know some of you've heard me say this before this verse can be correctly read as nelson go therefore and make disciples trevor go therefore and make disciples fred go therefore and make disciples and so on and so forth for every single person in this room this verse is a personal command an instruction that's why i like referring to the great commission as the great co mission because it's all of our mission it is all of our mission to not just spread the gospel but make disciples what is the difference sharing the gospel with somebody and having them accept jesus is merely the beginning of their walk with christ right that's just the point of salvation that's an instantaneous moment when your soul is saved and bound for heaven the rest of the process is called sanctification that's what discipleship is for salvage it literally this way salvation is fire insurance you don't have to go to hell anymore which is an awesome amen worthy of an amen but the rest of the life that's lived after the point of salvation is what discipleship is for it's the training the education the spiritual maturity the idea of have you ever been born again how many have heard that phrase born again huge in the 70s and 80s it comes out of john chapter 3 when jesus is having this conversation with nicodemus tuesday nighters we looked at that heavily being born again that is literally what this is when someone accepts christ they are a newborn baby no one in their right mind when they have a baby comes home from the hospital puts the baby in their room and says okay breakfast is going to be at 8 30 lunches at noon kim right we're living through that right now right no one in their right mind expects the baby to take care of itself yet why because because it's still a baby it doesn't know how it has to be taught when we first accept christ all we know is what we've been taught you have to pick up that baby christian you have to take that person who doesn't know how to read the bible who doesn't know what prayer is who doesn't know what the church is who doesn't know anything it's like bringing a baby setting them on the altar of the church and telling them okay church is on sundays and bible studies on tuesdays and you're responsible for your faith from here on out it's the same thing and yet the latter one we do all the time and nobody has a problem with it but the very first time somebody stuck a newborn in the room for a couple of days we'd be calling hrs and would be inflamed why because we equate the two separately when the reality is they're the same when someone accepts christ for the first time you have to understand they're a baby they don't know anything they don't know how to feed themselves which is nutrition how to grow they don't know how to clean themselves goodness gracious finally emily is learning to to be fully potty trained all she's got to remember is to actually pull up her pants before she walks out of the bathroom or else or else you just have this little itty bitty white booty going all the way all the way across the living room she does like it's adorable i'm super glad she's learned how to use the potty now i'm like emmy pull up your pants pull pull so i have to stand there at the door and go emmy pull up your pants oh okay it's adorable right why can't we tell people oh did you forget to read your bible today read your bible oh did you forget to pray today oh don't forget to pray did you forget to go to church this week oh don't forget to go to church why all of a sudden are those reminders judgmental when it's the same thing you have to learn the process of being a healthy christian you have to learn to develop yourself to spiritual maturity and jill once you've done that then you have to help someone else so the latter half of my question do not raise your hands but in your minds do you feel prepared to disciple someone and i will define what i mean by that are you ready to take someone who doesn't know jesus at all introduce them to jesus teach them the disciplines of reading your bible praying being a part of a church getting them on the process of spiritual maturity and not giving up dan until they're ready to do the same thing that's when discipleship ends discipleship here nelson come here for a second i'm gonna use you and it's my example this is my friend nelson everybody say hi nelson okay for the next five seconds nelson doesn't know jesus i i bring nelson to take a step this way now nelson has met jesus that's all he knows now we take another step now he's learning to read his bible and then we take another step and now he's learning to to disciple he's learning how to pray he's learning how to be a part of a church slowly he goes through this whole process right now all of a sudden he's a fully matured member of the christian church then we go all the way back to this side stand here and now and now we're side by side doing the same thing with two new people so and you don't have to grab your sister because i know that's what you're about to do sit down thank you that's the process you take a baby christian you walk them all the way to spiritual maturity but the process isn't over until you take them all the way back to the beginning and help them start the process over now as the mentor not the student that's what discipleship is do you feel prepared and ready today as you sit in your chair to do this process with someone in your life and then bring them all the way back and help them disciple someone else if not you are not spiritually mature i apologize if that's offensive it's not intended to be it's intended to be truthful if you're not ready to do this whole process then what you have to figure out is where in the process am i and what's my next step what's my next lesson that's why i constantly talk about having a discipleship plan and having a growth plan plan your work and work your plan you will grow if you work at it you will not if you don't you will be stuck right here in baby land or right here in toddlerville or you know where most people just just take a pause for a minute terry you know where most people get stuck in their spiritual development teenager i know everything i no longer need to grow and then how many of you remember that stage in your life and all of a sudden you graduated out of knowing everything to realizing how much you don't know i see so many people who are stuck in a teenager mentality in their faith i already know everything i've been going to church long enough i'm friends with the pastor i read my bible there's nothing left for me to do and so they never make it to the end and they never start discipling somebody new because they can't get it through their own heads that they're not as mature as they think they are don't let that be you the point of the church is to be responsible to make disciples here's your final blank this morning this is the one everyone's going to super love the point of the church of jesus christ is intended to meet regularly it is intended to meet regularly our final point this morning we're going to go to the book of hebraeus titus philemon hebraeus james it's going to be at two-thirds the way through your new testament titus philemon hebraeus james hebraeus chapter 10 verses 23 24 and 25 this is the new century version ncv this is the apostle paul speaking to the hebraeus the jewish christians let us hold firmly to the hope that we have confessed because we can trust god to do what he promised let us think about each other and help each other show love and do good deeds you should not stay away from church meetings as some are doing but you should meet together and encourage each other how many people and you don't necessarily have to raise your hand but you can just nod how many people have ever heard somebody say yeah i'm a christian but i don't go to church all right maybe i just i hear that like all the time oh yeah i'm a christian but i don't go to church well and here there's a bunch of hypocrisy there's a bunch of judgmental hypocrite people so i'm going to be a christian but not go to church here's the problem with that mentality half of it is true and half of it is wrong and that's why it's such a deceptive lie the truth part is you can totally be a christian and not connected to a church because all it required to be a christian is to trust in jesus for salvation but you cannot be a healthy christian and not be connected to a church because you are only one component of one system in the body you do not have the capability to keep yourself healthy on your own we require each other and we require each other in community in relationship because diane brings something to the table that i don't have and she can encourage me and judy brings something else to the table that neither diane or i have and she encourages the both of us and tj brings something else to the table that the three of us don't have and she encourages us that is why attending church regularly is a biblical expectation i love people say oh i'm a christian i just don't go to church okay okay so what you're admitting is you're an unhealthy uneducated christian because you don't read the bible i love people say that oh you're oh yeah they find out i'm a pastor and that's like one of the first bullets in their gun i'm a christian but i don't go to church okay then i apologize for the truth but you either don't know how to read your bible or you don't because the reality is we cannot be healthy in faith without one another even as the pastor i require relationships with other pastors i have to because there are things that my life that i go through that i gotta have people to talk to i gotta have like dan and nelson they're like my rock something goes wrong i can call dan i can call nelson i can either get a slap in the face or a pat on the back just depends on what i have to say but either one makes me feel better which is really weird we are designed by god to be components in the large body we make up multiple systems we make up multiple things that keep us healthy but if you do not allow yourself to have consistent community with other believers then you are allowing yourself to flounder in a sea of unhealthy religion you know why because melissa if you don't go to church you can pretty much believe whatever you want about the bible whether it's right or not because you're not getting quality bible teaching you're not like on tuesdays have the opportunity to ask questions about things you don't understand so you're left to your own devices of what you think is right and wrong and amanda i think that's why a lot of people don't like going to church they don't like being told that truth is still truth jesus is still god sin is still sin these are things that are true that doesn't mean we're unloving people one plus one is going to always equal just checking make sure everybody's there one plus one is going to always equal two no matter how you split it no matter how you work it no matter how you work on it one plus one will always equal two it is a true statement that does not mean that truth is by its very nature judgmental but truth is exclusive there is truth and there is not truth and sometimes the bible challenges us to believe something that we disagree with i'll give you that there are things in the bible that are challenging for our culture dealing with homosexuality for instance i just this week had another person go you're a pastor tell me about homosexuality i'm like okay we can do this grab that arrow again talk to him boy but do you really believe that it's a sin i said yes i believe it's him because the bible is clear well how do you how do you trust the bible right as soon as the bible says something i don't like i'm going to unwind it and say well it's not trustworthy what are they really saying my opinion is more valid than the word of god that's what they're really saying they don't want to come out and say it they don't want to say it outright because out loud that statement sounds pretty darn arrogant my opinion is more important than the bible but anytime your opinion differs with the bible and you choose to go your way you're saying the same thing that's why being in community is so important we can learn together we can grow together we can encourage one another guess what life is hard right every now and then you have a bad week bad month bad quarter you know and you need encouragement this is where you're supposed to get that you should have some kind of relationship with the people in your church to encourage you to do two things encourage you to show love and do good deeds i don't think any one of us would have a problem doing one of those right show love do good deeds that is what we are designed to do encourage one another to show god's love by being a part of a church regularly so just ask yourself how good was your vision when it came to the church how good was your perspective of how tied you are to a church and don't just say what you think what i want to ask you to do is look over your life over the last six weeks does your involvement in faith match anything i said today most of it some of it none of it all of it where is your perspective on the church and that's evident by how you've done everything we talked about this morning do me a favor pull out your connection card every week at c3 i want you to take a next step don't let this morning sermon just be a message just be something that we talk about and then it doesn't change your life for the rest of it and i apologize i gotta clean the head on the printer my my connection card got a little whited out the first one is this week i will invite and bring someone new to our church that's taking that responsibility to share the gospel listen if you don't feel ready to share your faith by yourself that's okay way back when we looked at contagious we actually looked at like five completely different biblical ways to share your faith if you want to learn those we'll go back i'll dig them out and i can teach them all to you in about a half hour there are five completely different ways to do personal evangelism preaching is not the only way to talk about jesus trust me it's not it's actually one of the least effective ways because abby this is an oratory one-way talk you're not responding we're not talking we're not asking questions so preaching at people it's not nearly as effective as some of the other forms of evangelism this week i will invite and bring someone new to our church the second one this week i will share my faith with a friend who is lost maybe as i was talking about sharing the gospel or a few weeks ago we talked about our perspective of friends you thought of someone in your life who needs to know jesus maybe you'll make a point this week to reach out to them third i want help creating a prescription for spiritual growth remember my analogy here with growing up are you stuck in a toddler mentality i want the way i want it are you stuck in the teenager are you stuck in the teenager mentality i know what's best and you don't are you stuck in the young adult mentality i'm too busy to go to church or are you at the adult mentality i'm ready but i've still not stepped in which one are you do you want help getting to that next step let me know that's my job to make you ready the next one this week i will memorize romans chapter 12 verses four and five romans chapter 12 verses four and five talks about us all being members of one body and belonging to one another now i've talked a lot about what it means to be the church this morning there is one gigantimus prerequisite to being a part of the church and that is having a relationship with jesus christ you cannot be a part of the christian church without it talk about that today in the discover class if you're not sure that you have a relationship with jesus there's a bubble there says please send me info about beginning a life with jesus the one right underneath of that send me info about rededicating my life maybe you made a decision to be a christian at some point in your life prior to this moment but you don't really have the fruit of it you're not as close to god as you once were that's that second bubble please send me info about rededicating my life to jesus it doesn't mean we're changing your point on salvation but we're saying dan today i'm going to make a difference i'm going to start growing i'm going to start being an active member you see there how to grow spiritually baptism church membership the discover class is today at four o'clock if you have not attended a membership class you are not a member of the church we're going to talk today about what it means to be a member of our specific church this morning's message was all what does it mean to be a member of the big church the overall body of christ but if you have not attended the discover class you are not a member of our church you are what we call a regular attender and whilst i love my regular attenders you are so welcome to join us and worship with us whenever you want i want you to at least find out what our church is about and consider becoming a member so if you have been coming but have not attended a discover class please mark that on you've got upcoming events it's on your card today i just need to make sure i have enough printouts that's why i gotta know who's coming please you can come to the discover class today and amanda you can still choose not to be a member of our church and still come every sunday that's fine i don't want you to feel like just because you come to the class you have to be a member no you can come to the class and then go home and talk about it with your husband and wife and your family and then let me know later there's not going to be this pressure moment where you have to decide right now while we're all at the table i don't believe that's the right way to make church members that's the right way to push people through a system but that's not the right way to make solid fulfilled church members so if you are not a current member of c3 please come today at four o'clock we'll be right in here we're not even going to tear anything down we'll just be right in here for church i'll have the table set up and i'll give you a very in-depth picture of what c3 is about our past our present our future our government how our church is organized and what your rights and responsibilities are as a member our members have rights and responsibilities that's what i want you to know about so if you're not a member of c3 please consider coming today at four o'clock you can also see there the men's group on wednesday ladies group which is saturday but not this saturday and then the costume party on halloween night that should also be pretty fun so do me a favor please look over the front and back of your connection card make sure you've got it filled out