Good morning. For those of you who came in and thought everything was a little sideways, yes it is. And there's a reason for that, a really, really awesome reason. Tom, thank you so much for asking. I appreciate that. The reason is with the chairs going the other way, we had no more room to grow. We had already grown to filling up the majority of those chairs. Normally what happens when you're trying to grow a church is as soon as 80% of the chairs are full, Terry, the perception is, oh the church is full. And so we were constantly going over that limit and there was a few Sundays where we had no seats left. So we had to start coming up with, well, how can we make this room more effective? And this was sort of always the plan. Fred, the plan was that we would start filling in here and as you can see there's plenty of room in the back as we get more cushy, tushy chairs because eventually, you know, I gotta be honest Melissa, if you haven't had a chance to sit in one of the blue ones, there's a few of them open and it's way comfier. Not that I don't love people in the front row. I'm not kicking you out and I promise I go spit on you. But as we fill this room with the blue cushy, tushy chairs, you can see they're a little bit smaller than the black chairs. We should be able to grow here for at least the next year and a half. My hope is by Christmas time next year we'll be bursting the seams of this room and have to come up with what to do. So Fred, thank you so much because it is you as the church that have brought us to this point that we have already outgrown our first barrier which is now we got to turn. So we're getting very, very comfy up here and trying to find ways to fit. But I just want to thank you for being a part of a church that's growing because it's super exciting. As you can see on your screen, we are going to, or screens, we're going to continue our contagious series this morning. In contagious we've been looking at a new way to look at evangelism. Evangelism in a way that's not scary. Evangelism in a way that's not high pressure and in a way that is easy to understand. When we started the contagious series, we started with a four letter acronym to remember. Does anybody know the word? Save. That's right. And if it's not on your notes, but I'll give it to you again. Here's the four letter acronym I want you to learn. Save, S-A-V-E. Terry, S is for strong faith. A strong faith plus A, access and opportunity to have a conversation with nonbelievers plus V, which is verbalizing truth. Dan E equals evangelism. S-A-V-E, strong faith plus access and opportunity to talk to unbelievers plus the opportunity to verbalize truth equals evangelism. You no longer have to think about evangelism as something that you go do, but rather it's something that we're just going to live. And Anne, when we live with a strong faith, now I'll be honest, the A is the hardest part for me. I work at a church. I'm surrounded by people for the most part who already know about Jesus. And I will also be honest with you, Abby, I don't think it's fair to count what I do up here on Sunday morning as evangelism because my job as the pastor is to grow the whole church. Doug, it's not like I'm out on a street corner just preaching to people who've never heard about Jesus. So this doesn't get to count as my personal evangelism time. Kim, I have to try to find people who don't know Jesus because my work life is surrounded by church folk for the most part. We got a couple different things going on throughout the week. So a lot of my time is spent with you. And Glenna, that's not bad. I like you. Doug can take her leave some days, but I really like you. But the A for access, that's my hardest part. That's the part where I have to try the hardest to find those opportunities. Now we've been talking about different styles of evangelism. We talked about a relational style, an invitational style. Well, this morning I want to introduce you to the intellectual style of evangelism. Everybody, just take a breath really quick. I'm not going to require everybody to go to Bible college. Okay. This is the intellectual style of evangelism. And this one is kind of obvious. It's very out there in the open. Amanda, unlike the relational style, this one's kind of obvious. When it's going down, you can see it, you can telegraph it. And so it's a little more obvious than the interpersonal or the relational. This morning we will be in the book of Acts. So if you have your Bibles with you, whether they be physical or digital, do me a favor and turn to the book of Acts. We're going to be in chapter 17. And this morning we are going to look at a gentleman in the Bible who I think all of us would agree was an intellectual. The apostle Paul, who is perhaps the greatest intellectual in the very beginning of the church, in his own words, he was a Pharisee of Pharisee from the tribe of Benjamin, which meant really important. And he was a thinker. Dan, from the time that he got into Judaism, he was trained and taught how to work the law and how to live the law. And he was zealous and passionate to serve God. And in doing so, he became a very learned man. Melissa, the apostle Paul was incredibly smart. Most likely the apostle Paul was trilingual or even quadralingual. Quadralingual, just in case anybody didn't know what that meant. Because at the time, keep in mind we're in first century Jerusalem, so we speak Hebrew in the temple. The majority of the world was Roman, so Greek was the sort of layman language of the day. Aramaic existed as sort of the poor people's language. And it's possible that he may have been learning a fourth language. We don't know that, so that's why I'll say more than likely trilingual but possible quadralingual guy. So we're going to take a look at kind of a chunk of scripture this morning. It's Acts chapter 17. We're going to start reading in verse 16 and we're going to go all the way to verse 33. And I have it for you here on both screens in the New Living translation. So this is Acts chapter 17. We're going to read verses 16 through 33. Here we go. Paul is in Athens at this point. While Paul was waiting for them in Athens, he was deeply troubled by all the idols he saw everywhere in the city. He went to the synagogue to reason with the Jews and God-fearing Gentiles, as he spoke daily or and he spoke daily in the public square to all who happened to be there. He also had a debate with some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers. While he told them about Jesus and his resurrection, they said, what is this babbler trying to say with these strange ideas he's picked up? Others said he seems to be preaching some foreign gods. Then they took him to the high council of the city. Come tell us about this new teaching, they said. You are saying some rather strange things and we want to know what it's all about. It should be explained that all the Athenians as well as the foreigners in Athens seem to spend all of their time discussing the latest ideas. So Paul standing before the council addressed them as follows, Men of Athens, I noticed that you are very religious in every way. For as I was walking along, I saw your many shrines and one of your altars had this inscription on it to an unknown God. This God who you worship without knowing is the one I am telling you about. He is the God who made the world and everything in it. Since he is the Lord of heaven, he doesn't live in man-made temples and human hands can't serve his needs, for he has no needs. He himself gives life and breath to everything and he satisfies every need. From one man, he created all the nations throughout the whole earth. He decided beforehand that they should rise and fall and he determined their boundaries. His purpose was for the nations to seek after God and perhaps feel their way toward him and find him, though he is not far from any one of, and should be us. Yeah, should have been us. For in him we live and move and exist. As some of your own poets have said, we are his offspring and since this is the first time that we have seen God as an idol, we should not think of him as an idol. God overlooked people's ignorance about these things in earlier times, but now he commands everyone everywhere to repent of their sins and turn to him. For he has set a day for judging the world with justice by the man he has appointed and he proved to everyone who this is by raising him from the dead. When they heard Paul speak about the resurrection of the dead, some laughed in contempt, but others said, we want to hear more about this later. That ended Paul's discussion with them. Now that was Acts chapter 17 verse 16 through 33 and I think this is a great example of the style of intellectual evangelism. So let me go ahead and give you your first blank and then we'll get started this morning. Your first blank is this, intellectual evangelism must start with brokenness for the lost. So let's look at the very first verse. We open that whole section with this. Acts chapter 17 verse 16. While Paul was waiting for them in Athens, he was deeply troubled by all the idols he saw everywhere in the city. Now this is not Jerusalem. This is not the place where we worship the one true God. Those of you who have been on Tuesday night, what makes Jerusalem so important in the first century? Temple. The temple was there. The temple housed God's presence. This was a holy city. We are now in Athens. We ain't in Kansas anymore. In Athens they have a multitude of Gods. In fact, you can still see the Roman pantheon still exists. Well the Greeks had their version of their pantheon of Gods and there's idols everywhere all over the city. Paul walking through the city is broken by these idols. He's troubled. Amanda ask yourself this question. Why is he troubled? This really sets the stage for everything Paul's about to do. Glenna, why is he troubled by idols all over the city? I'll give you, Fred, I'll give you two choices. I think you're gonna know where I'm going but let me give you two choices. Either A, he is personally troubled by these idols because he's tempted to worship them. That is a very real and possible thing. Nowadays we don't have idols made of brass or silver but we do have idols made out of paper and plastic and we still have idols today. Now the question you have to ask yourself is, is Paul troubled by these idols because he himself is tempted to worship them? Jenny, I would think no. I think Paul in other parts of scripture has shown his zeal for the one true God so let's rule that choice out. Maria, he's not tempted to worship other Gods. Well then why is he troubled? He's troubled because those other Gods are distracting people from the one true God. His heart is broken in an external fashion not an internal one. Paul is troubled because, Melissa, there's other people in the city who are lost in darkness worshiping idols that aren't the one true God and they don't know any better or worse they know any better and they don't care. So this is why he's troubled and this really has to set the stage because Ray, if you try to get into especially the intellectual style of evangelism and you don't start here with being troubled at what idols are in people's life you're going to be in a lot of danger. In all evangelism styles but especially this one, the main reason for time and effort spent should be a broken heart for the lost. There is a very real danger with this style not being done in a humble broken heart. Without brokenness as the motivator this style can quickly turn into argument and debate which will distract or even disrupt from evangelism itself. Judy, if we don't go into utilizing the intellectual style of evangelism and found it on a brokenness we could just start arguing with people for argument's sake. We could start debating with people for debate's sake. A friend of mine this past week was talking to me about the gigantic amount of social controversy that has swept social media because of said movie that opened on Friday that I don't want to get into a debate about this morning. But it, I mean, it's crazy. People on like multiple sides of this issue are putting paragraph long war and peace style rants on Facebook that don't have any real substance behind them. Yes they're emotional, yes that's how they feel, yes people feel that way and I'm not trying to detract from any person's feelings but when you try to force your viewpoint on someone with no desire or regard for where they are at you come across like my kids would say like a meanie. Don't be a meanie. Without the heart for brokenness underneath of the intellectual style of evangelism, Fred we come across like meanies. We come across like people who just want to debate, who just want to argue and at the end of the day want to force people to submit to Jesus. As we will see here with Paul that is not the right way to utilize this style. Okay so to give you another example of brokenness Jesus in Luke chapter 13 verse 34 said it this way oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem the city that kills the prophets and stones its messengers how I long for you. How I long for you. Jesus in the midst of the city of Jerusalem knowing full well how evil and jacked up things got in the Jewish religion he was still broken he wasn't angry he didn't say oh Jerusalem forget you we'll go plant the Christian church somewhere else he was broken for them and had a heart to want to see them changed. Dan this is where intellectual evangelism starts it is not debate for debate's sake it is using an intellectual engagement for evangelism's sake. Your second blank this morning intellectual evangelism is based on reason and evidence. All right so intellectual style of evangelism is based on reason and evidence. Now let's take a look at the next verse Acts chapter 17 the next verse actually it should be Acts chapter 17 verse 17 I have no idea why I put that extra two in there so forgive me yeah just ignore that. Should be Acts 17 17 not like Acts of February 17th of 1917 that's not the right just ignore that just ignore that. So this is what Paul does he's broken over the amount of idols that are being worshiped in Athens he went to the synagogue to reason. Do me a favor circle that underline it highlight it or if you're in a digital bible press and hold on the screen and you should have the option to highlight it. He went to the synagogue to reason not to preach not to teach not to beg not to borrow not to steal not to bribe he went to the synagogue to reason with the Jews and God-fearing Gentiles. Terry super important to understand that even in the synagogue in Athens Jews and God-fearing Gentiles Gentiles are a part of God's salvific plan my wife hates when I use that word she keeps claiming it's not a word salvific the adjective form of the word salvation he went there to reason with them and then look where he goes and then spoke daily in the public square so Dan he went to reason with people who are religious and he went to talk to those who weren't goodness gracious maybe the only place we don't need to do evangelism is in the church Paul went to the church right he went to the church to reason with all well-meaning people who love Jesus but just had one or two wires crossed been there okay I think everybody in church has had a wire crossed at some point no hands raised okay you don't need to admit to it now but after he goes to the synagogue to reason he then spoke daily in the public square he was it was like an equal opportunity evangelist here he would be willing to go to the synagogue to reason to help them understand that the promised messiah they have been waiting for is Jesus and then in the next hand Fred he'll go to the open market and talk to whoever Julie to put it in our terms today there may be people that you can reach inside the church and then I'll meet you at Starbucks and help you with the rest there is a time and a place to reason with those who are already here in the church and help grow them and help develop them but there is also a time and a place to step outside the doors of the church because that's where the rest of the lost people in the world are if we have a church that opens the doors and says come here you lost lucky people come listen to our pastor because he's so cool that ray that's about as smart as going fishing and saying come here you lucky fish come jump in my boat it's not going to work right because you're asking someone Terry to leave everything they know their home environment where they are comfortable where they feel good for something that is completely foreign that is what bringing people who don't go to church to church is just like hey you lucky people come jump in my boat we have to be willing to go and traverse where they are if you look at the way Jesus fished with the first disciples what did he say Diane go let your take your boat out into the deep go out into the deep and let down your nets it's real easy to sit here on shore where it's nice and it's you know we got my little umbrella drink and I got my beach chair and listen I'm a Floridian I have a beach kit okay and it's got the it's got the tent and the chairs and the cooler and we're ready to go and it's comfortable on the beach but if we are truly going to do the work of evangelism you have to step outside of the church and go into the public square because that's where the real magic can happen so he goes to the public square what I want you to see here Winifred one of the greatest things about this style of evangelism it's got a broad audience it can appeal to this style evangelism works with churchy religious people and with non-churchy non-religious people because it's based on reason and evidence and facts not feelings not christianese stories or anything else this style of evangelism can be used in a myriad of different places you can reason and discuss with all kinds of peoples and backgrounds because this style isn't based on relationship with the person it's not based on an event it's not based on an act it's information and and information can be learned and then pulled out and used at just the right time this style is one that will take more time to learn and be comfortable with because more than the other styles this one does require learning you may not know how to reason your faith today Kathy if you've never done it reasoning why you believe in Jesus can be a little challenging that doesn't mean it's impossible it just means before you become really effective at reaching into your quiver of evangelism styles and pulling out the intellectual one and threading the bullseye you may have to work out a little bit you may have to practice here's your third blank intellectual style of evangelism involves defending the faith now take a look here at verses 17 and 18 he also had a debate with some of the epicurean and stoic philosophers while he told them about Jesus and his resurrection they said what is this babbler what is this babbler trying to say with these strange ideas he's picked up doug they weren't buying it straight up what is this babbler trying to say kim there are times when you try to share your faith with somebody that they're not going to buy it i'm just not buying that whole jesus church thing i'm sorry i get that i have friends who are atheists and friends who are gay and i have a couple friends who don't even know what they are but they're like bill i respect what you do for a living i think it's admirable they'll even say i respect the moral lifestyle that you live but terry that jesus bible thing i'm just i'm just not with you it can't you know a lot of people tell me honestly and it can't be that simple i'm like seriously seriously like free salvation for the rest of your life and be able to go to heaven and all you got to do is ask for it but well it can't be that simple fred it's got to be more complicated than that and i'm like why why does it need to be more complicated to be forgiven fine okay i'm going to give you a recipe great first i need you to pray then i need you to sell your house and give all the money to our church and then you know if you want me to make it complicated terry i'll make it complicated the reality is there are some people that just selena they don't buy it at first and that's okay if everybody bought jesus the very first time that we shared our faith with them churches would be filled with lots and lots of people who needed to be discipled oh no we would because there's still more people being born what's really interesting though is if every single person every single christian right now on earth amanda if every single christian on earth in the course of this year evangelized one friend brought them to jesus and then discipled them to be able to do that then the following year both of you went out together so you get the idea of exponential growth every single person on the planet would be christian within like i think it's 12 years or something like that it's it's amazing how fast that number breaks up if every christian today committed to doing evangelism and discipling people so that in 365 days from that day that would double themselves out we could reach the entire world in i think it's less than 15 years i want to say it's 12 um but what i want you to get out of this is there are times dan where we have to defend our faith a couple of my friends will say bill you you really believe in the bible i mean like you believe it yeah i know bibles are real and i have a couple on my bookshelf my grandma gave me one but do you really believe it like it just can't make sense and i say tom yeah i believe the word of god because i believe the bible is the word of god and i don't care how many times you argue with me i don't care how many things you bring up i don't care how many supposed contradictions you want to throw in my face i don't care how many times you're going to argue with me about which translation is best i believe in the word of god it's a foundational part of what i believe and there are times julie that i have had to defend that belief because a friend will challenge me on it they'll say okay bill well if you believe in the bible so much then what about and i love this question because it's this gigantic fill in the blank and kathy you know they're going to pick something like out of left field it's not what about jesus was his name really jesus you know it's not something simple they're going to pull something out of some absolutely obscure reference in the middle of like zephaniah that i've got to go look because i don't have it memorized yet like you throw me something from the gospels or the book of acts i've got a fighting champs like i'm pretty familiar but you pull some random thing out of the book yeah i might have to look it up but glennan just because i have to look it up doesn't mean i don't believe in the bible having to defend your faith is not a bad thing it's not because you know what melissa if you're having a conversation where somebody's allowing you to defend your faith you know what they're really allowing you to do they're allowing you to do evangelism they just don't know it they're allowing you to tell them why you believe something kim they're letting you share their faith and they started it and they don't even know it so being able nelson to defend your faith is an incredibly powerful tool because abby they can start the conversation but you get to control the information and that's super important i don't care what you i tell my friends a question whatever you want bring it if i don't know the answer off the top of my head that doesn't mean i doubt the sovereignty of god it just means that bill either doesn't know or forgot and i'm a human being so that's okay but if someone's going to give you the opportunity to defend your faith melvin take it because they're actually opening the door of their own evangelism and they haven't figured it out yet it's a great time but how many of us are comfortable with that doug if somebody came up to you and said doug tell me why you believe the bible is the word of god got to have an answer for that and you will before the message is over i promise you i will give you an answer why do i believe the bible is the word of god i have a i have a ready go-to answer you asked me that you're going to get it right between the eyes in about 30 seconds but see i've learned it fred i learned it i practiced it i memorized it and you bring me that question and i am ready to hold that ground and defend it and actually that conversation has never not led to another conversation okay wow like a lot of people go okay i wasn't ready for that um you know what what's my next question and then they and kim and then they ask the question that really matters they asked the question that they really wanted to ask but they wanted to make sure i knew what i was talking about first so they're going to kind of like pitch ball me one if you can answer this one then so on be ready to defend your faith and don't think it's a bad thing because those people are actually opening the opportunity for their own evangelism your fourth point this morning the intellectual style seeks to answer a question now let's look at verses 22 and 23 in that same story so now paul has been brought before the council so paul standing before the council addressed them as follows men of athens i noticed that you are very religious in every way for as i was walking along i saw your many shrines and one of your altars had this inscription to an unknown god jack i have to say this is probably one of my favorite moments from all of the apostle paul's ministry because what i see here is paul saw an opportunity that other people might have just walked by abby you're walking by a bunch of idols we saw that in the beginning of the scripture right the city is full of idols for paul to have noticed this one meant he was paying attention tom he was at least looking at what are the idols that these people are worshiping i believe in my heart kim he was looking because he was looking for the opportunity to share jesus but he needed to answer a question what you have to understand about the intellectual style of evangelism is you can spit data at someone all day long and it won't do any good you can memorize all different kinds of arguments and facts about jesus and history in the bible but sam if it doesn't mean anything to them it's just like reading a dictionary it's like reading rote facts that don't matter but jack if you can find an in find a question that they have and then begin to answer that question from your knowledge about your faith now we're starting to cook now we're starting to get somewhere so paul's walking along the city and he's broken terry he's troubled by the amount of idols and then he finds one he finds an opportunity a question now what's the question is there a god we don't know that's the question here the idol was to an unknown god but the real thing is is there an unknown god and i would argue with you today that question still exists i think there are plenty of people who still want to know is there really a god and that's what this question that's what this altar was asking lord you know how many people how many times you heard somebody say god i don't know if you're real but i'm going to try to pray to you anyway that's the same thing to an unknown god so he sought to answer a question he found an opportunity anyone who has a question or an unknown is willing anyone who has a question or an unknown is willing to listen to an answer we don't need to drive answers at people that don't have anything or don't have any meaning to them we instead need to keep our eyes and ears open for an opportunity to answer a question that does mean something to them because that's the kind of information that could lead them to jesus giving them information with no relational value is like reading a dictionary you'll never get anywhere but and if you can find a piece of information that might concern them you know at least once or twice a year i like to try to plan a sermon series that's attractive to people who don't go to church you know a few years ago we did finding forgiveness lots of people want to know about forgiveness whether they go to church or not then we did afterlife what happens when we die that's a broad spectrum you know i like to try to do one or two of those a year so that we can get people to come to church who wouldn't normally come to church fred if i told you i was going to start a 32 week series on the minor prophets and the magical journey of isolationism in the second exile do you know how many people would be at church next sunday me me and melanie would be here going yeah yeah melanie's not even coming i wouldn't i wouldn't even come to my own sermon i'd put on a tape and go get pancakes you gotta meet people where they're at terry and sometimes being a little observant maybe you got to get to know somebody first winifred and talk to them and you'll find out something that matters to them maybe it's a family member in the hospital so knowing that there's a god who answers prayer might be that that question that you could talk about useless knowledge or facts will never be remembered because it's useless to get someone to remember something about jesus the bible or faith you have to answer a question or give them information that matters to them not just rote information here's your final blank this morning the intellectual style boldly speaks the truth the intellectual style boldly speaks the truth and then here in verse 30 and 31 paul has teed it up and now he hits the nail right on the head god overlooked people's ignorance about these things in earlier times but now commands everyone everywhere to repent of their sins and turn to him judy there's no wiggling out of that statement he found that opportunity that alter to an unknown god he queued it up and here he's driving it home god overlooked people's ignorance but about these things in earlier times but now he commands everyone everywhere to repent of their sins and turn to him for he has set a day he has set a day for judging the world with justice by the man he has appointed and he approved or and he proved to everyone by raising him from the dead that's the gospel in two sentences right there will be a judgment day where everyone has to answer and the just the judgment on that day will be just because the one doing the judging has already been raised from the dead and he is the one that forgives i mean he's laying it up amanda it's right there i almost said in black and white in red and white it's right there he's laying up the gospel selena if you utilize this style of evangelism there's going to come a point where you have to be willing to boldly speak the truth you have to be willing to tee it up that's okay you have to be willing to tee up the truth and give it to them because not terry guess what if you don't tee up the truth then all you have done is tell them good information but you have not done anything that leads to salvation you get that right doug if all you do is share information but don't create a point of decision then you have not shared salvation with anybody all you've done is teach them something that they may not have known there comes a point where you've got to lay it up and boldly speak the truth and cathie you'll know when that point comes you're going to have to feel it it might be five seconds into the conversation it might be five months into the relationship the intellectual style is again we talked about evangelism not being transactional cindy it's not a one moment thing it's not a do you believe in the bible yes these are my reasons oh i need to know jesus okay let me pray with you it's not always that easy sometimes it is judy sometimes it could just be that easy but you need to be ready to feel that last part out and fred if i'm honest there's going to be a little bit of trepidation there there's going to be a little bit of fear you're going to be concerned if i really hit this nail in the head am i going to lose this friendship are they have i laid up enough good information dan do they believe the argument that i have put forth about why jesus really saves but if you don't do that then melissa all you've done is share information and you've not created any form of salvation that is why boldly speaking the truth is where this ends we started with humility and humble and a brokenness for the lost and guess what glenna if you don't boldly share the truth they're still lost you took all that time to share all this really cool information but without a decision point they're still lost now before we go to the connection card i know a lot of people don't have a lot of training in this area so do me a favor somewhere on your bulletin i want you to write these numbers down okay somewhere on your bulletin you can be on the front there's some space there i want you to take it home and i want you to write down these numbers the first one 66 those of you who have heard me say this you know where i'm going the first number is 66 the second number 4040 my message you be quiet i do the talking you write down you're not talking right now you're not talking right now you ruined my good point all right 66 the second number 40 the third number 1500 1500 66 40 1500 the next number three the numeral three like one two three and the final number one 66 40 1500 three and one that's five numbers right okay here's this is really easy all you have to do is remember five numbers and i can help you defend one question dan why do you believe the bible is god's word because it's 66 books there are 66 books in the bible 40 more than 40 human authors more than 40 human authors 66 books written by more than 40 human authors 1500 years thank you jack 1500 years three continents can also say three languages three continents and three languages one story one story one story kathy why do i believe the bible is god's word because 66 books written by more than 40 different men over the course of 1500 years over three continents in three different languages tell one story of one god who loves me and that's why i believe in the bible easy all you got to do is remember and you can say them in any order it doesn't really i just memorized them in that way 66 books written by more than 40 human authors over the course of 1500 years in three different languages on three different continents all tell one story of a god who died for me there is no way the bible is a work of human fiction just can't pull it off there's no way you could get every one of those numbers to be right if it's not god so there you go that's my quick hit you in the middle of the eyes in 30 seconds that is my go-to because judy then normally we'll say but normally you'll say that and then the personal okay but what about and i'll go okay well let's have the what about conversation it wasn't a what about question you asked me why do i believe in the bible because 66 books written by more than 40 human authors over the course of 1500 yes yes he did jesus well and okay fine we yeah i got five minutes okay here's the deal if somebody asks you to tell okay here's something else you got more room i'll give you another i'll give you another one of my really quick really quick responses ready five things i can tell you about jesus abby that i don't need the bible to tell you ready somebody says well fine tell me something about jesus that's not in your bible number one jesus was born in bethlehem not in the bible i can still tell it is in the bible but if you took my bible away i could still tell you jesus was born in bethlehem second jesus was a religious teacher i can tell you that without needing to go to the bible third jesus had a supernatural ministry i can tell you that without needing the bible i can tell you that without needing the bible fourth jesus died on a cross executed by the romans on a cross and fifth jesus's execution was called for and orchestrated by jewish leaders jesus's execution was called for or orchestrated by however you want to write that down by jewish leaders ray i can tell you all five of those facts about jesus without needing to crack a bible i can get those facts from trusted greek roman historical documents now kim here's the rub i just told you five things about jesus that i don't even need the bible for and yet all five of those facts seem to line up precisely with the bible's recollection of jesus's life so my normal argument is they'll tell me well fine tell me something about jesus but don't use the bible okay okay jesus was a religious teacher who had supernatural miracles he was born in bethlehem the jewish leaders of his day called for his death and he died on a cross i said don't tell me about the bible i said i didn't go back and read tacitus, Pliny the Younger, Josephus, all of those details are there so you want to challenge me that my bible is not real fine i can still preach the message of jesus from history from the bible from documents bitten by people who didn't even believe in jesus that's why i believe in jesus so actual yeah you know what's really funny is people call that actual history but the pages of the bible are more historically reliable than all of the writings of Pliny and tacitus and Josephus and everything that they teach you in college about history the bible is more accurate than them but we don't trust the bible and we fully trust these other documents and i don't get it yes that's exactly right a lot of those historical documents use the scripture of the new testament to date themselves and check themselves for accuracy and yet we want to question the validity of the bible you mean you mean joe sephus plosifus was was a ghetto album a few years ago okay all right all right do it and on on that note please pull out your connection card please pull out your connection card and but um it wasn't wasn't bo sephus is um what's his face yeah it's um hank williams jr thank you bo sephus is the nickname for hank williams jr see this is a multicultural church all right do me a favor look at your connection card every week i want you to take a next step and this week is especially important because the intellectual style will require work to help you gain your muscles and be able to defend your faith and that's what we're here for okay so first this week i will find a resource and learn something new i'll give you the best bet of what you could do lee strobel the case for christ it's a great book i have the movie at home if you want to come over and borrow the dvd the case for christ by lee strobel is a wonderful book it he actually if you learn lee's story he was an atheist he was an editor of the chicago tribune and when he and his wife leslie got married they were both atheists well then leslie started going to church leslie got saved became a christian and he tells you in the movie he was super worried that his marriage was going to be over his wife was going to become mean and judgmental and all of those things that all you crazy church women already are that's what he was afraid his wife was going to become and none of that happened julie leslie became even more loving and he she more serving and ultimately he was drawn to come to church because of the way his wife served him at home and jack will get into the service style of evangelism in a few weeks strobel i think strobel strobel if you type in the case for christ you'll find it and eventually what happened is see he goes to church and he brings his like his like recorder his reporter notebook with him and he starts writing down all the things the pastor's going to say not because he's really interested in what the pastor's going to say he's writing it down so he can go prove the pastor wrong and rescue his wife back from this cult that you get the movie that's exactly what happened and so he's he's a he's a journalist he starts contacting specialists in different fields he starts contacting historians people who are experts in the way the bible was translated and then he starts taking notes and he actually leads himself to faith because at the end of the movie he made a big list all the reasons why what the bible says is true and all the reasons why what the bible says isn't true and he just stopped writing after the third page of reasons why the bible is true so it's a fantastic movie i think the whole time it take you maybe 60 minutes to watch i have the dvd i also have a digital copy of it so if somebody wants to watch it on your phone let me know but find a resource and learn something learn something that you can use in conversation and defend your faith number two this week i will look for an opportunity to share my faith what's up this week i will look for an opportunity to share my faith maybe you need to maybe you have maybe you want to use my number argument 6645 15003 and one maybe you can use that to talk to somebody about why you think the bible is true third i would like to be contacted about how to make an evangelism plan i'm still taking notes we're going to get everybody together and when we get through all six styles we're going to look down and say julie which one of these would work best for you and how can you start using it finally this week i will memorize acts chapter 17 verse 17 sign up c3 goes to the fair love challenge tonight married couples right back here in this room we're going to start the love challenge start learning how to love our spouses more so do me a favor take a look real quick there's anything on the back of your card you want to check out pastor jack's going to come talk to you for pastor jack