We're going to continue our encountering Jesus series. I know that Pastor Jack introduced you to our connection card. Do me a favor if you came in after the service. Just take a look at that real quick. It's in your bulletin. Look down. Make sure that you have the front filled out. We're gonna get to the back. I'm gonna leave that over there. We're gonna get to the back in a minute and when the message is over you're gonna have the opportunity to participate today. And then on the back of your bulletin it looks a lot like this. There are some blanks in there and for those of you who are regular attendance members you know the drill. I want to ask you to follow along with me. Nelson even if you're gonna leave the bulletin here when you leave do me a favor and follow along because you will actually learn more. We're gonna combine auditory learning, visual learning, and tactile learning and you will get more out of the Bible when you put a little bit of energy into studying it. So this morning we're gonna continue the encountering Jesus series. Oops, nope that's not the right message for this morning. Maybe I didn't change that. Give me the next slide. I might have just accidentally not changed it so we'll go on a fly. Nothing is more life-changing than a personal encounter with the Savior. Hold it with me. This is the key thought for this series. This is where I want to start out every message is that there is nothing more life-changing than a personal encounter with Jesus. Now Jack that applies to his earthly ministry and as we look at over the next few weeks we're going to examine different lives that Jesus touched while he was in his earthly ministry but it also applies to our lives today. Frank we believe in a Savior who raised from the dead. We believe that's why we celebrate Easter. We believe that Jesus is still alive. He is still on the throne beside his Father in heaven. He has sent the Holy Spirit down to earth to guide us and comfort us and teach us and I believe that even today if you were to have a life-changing encounter with Jesus then it would be just that. It would be life-changing. Now the title this morning's message is on the back of your bulletin. It is entitled The Bleeding Woman. This is one of those weird passages in scripture where there's really not a great title for it. She's either the woman with the issue of blood, the woman with the hemorrhage or I just abbreviated it to the bleeding woman. I thought that was kind of an easier way to say that. Our text for this morning is coming from the Gospel of Mark. So if you brought your Bibles with you this morning whether they're physical or digital I'd like to ask you to turn with me to the Gospel of Mark chapter 5. Is that what you have in there? Yes. Mark, so I've obviously just forgot to change the title at the top of the message. Sorry about that Sam. We're gonna be looking at Mark chapter 5. We're gonna read verses 21 to 34 and I'll have it for you here on the screen in the New Living translation. So this is Mark chapter 5 starting reading in verse 21 in the New Living. This is what it says. Jesus got into the boat again and went back to the other side of the lake where a crowd gathered around him on the shore. Then a leader of a local synagogue whose name was Jarius arrived. When he saw Jesus he fell at his feet pleading fervently with him. My little daughter is dying he said. Please come and lay your hands on her. Heal her so she can live. Jesus went with him and all the people followed crowding around him. A woman in the crowd had suffered for 12 years with constant bleeding. She had suffered a great deal from many doctors and over the years she had spent everything she had to pay them but she had gotten no better. In fact she had gotten worse. When she had heard about Jesus she came up behind him through the crowd and touched his robe. For she thought to herself if I can just touch his robe I will be healed. Immediately the bleeding stopped and she could feel in her body that she had been healed of her terrible condition. Jesus realized at once that healing power had gone out from him so he turned around in the crowd and asked who touched my robe? His disciples said to him look at this crowd pressing around you how can you ask who touched me? But he kept on looking around to see who had done it. Then the frightened woman trembling at the realization of what had happened to her came and fell to her knees in front of him and told him what she had done and he said daughter your faith has made you well. Go live or go in peace. Your suffering is over. Now this is one of my favorite healing stories because this Kathy this story takes place in the middle of another story. There's a whole other story going on that's why we had to really start at verse 21 so you get the whole picture of what's going on here. This story is like an on the way story like you get in you get into the school bus and you're on your way to your field trip and then somebody starts singing some song and it's kind of one of those on the way kind of stories. Your first blank this morning and then we're going to go back into this and rip it up. Your first blank this morning she blended into the crowd. She blended into the crowd. Now let's look again at how this story opens verse 21. Jesus got into the boat again and back to the other side of the lake where a large crowd had gathered around him on the shore. At this point in the earthly ministry of Jesus as as Tuesday nighters you know we've been looking at there's a certain point in Jesus's earthly ministry where he starts to attract followers. People begin following him because Jack he has the miraculous power of God. He teaches as one with authority the word says. So he's starting to become a known persona and as such people are following him as people do today. We follow people so the crowd in and of itself is really just kind of following him to see what's going to happen next. Then all of a sudden in walks a guy named Jarius. He is the leader Lynette of a local synagogue. So this man is a man of stature. He is a man of respect. He's a leader in the synagogue in a theocratic society. The people who ran the Jewish nation were the chief priests all the way down. He had respect. This was someone important. I think it's so interesting Julie when we juxtapose these two characters. Here we have Jarius who is a man of respect who serves in the synagogue. He teaches. He is a righteous man and he comes to Jesus. He says Kim my daughter is sick. Will you please heal her? And in the midst of the healing story about this the very well respected man here comes the woman sneaking in on the sly. And we'll talk in a minute about why she snuck through the crowd but what I want you to understand here is she's really not the focus of this passage. If you continue reading on after what we looked at we pick up the Jarius story and it continues. So her story of healing takes place Terry in the middle of something else completely. It's just interjected here and I think that is so pointful when we start looking at this passage that we realize this encounter takes place on the way to heal someone else. Jarius had already pleaded with Jesus to heal his son and Jesus was on the way there when she approaches the Savior. Laz how many times in your everyday life have you just blended into the crowd on purpose? Not by accident. She did it on purpose. She did it on purpose. Sometimes Glennon we go to church and we just want to blend in. Sometimes we're out on Saturday night you just want to blend in. That is where this woman's story starts. She starts Abs by blending into her surroundings. At first point the story is about Jarius. We don't even know who this woman is. She is a nameless faceless woman in a crowd full of people and you know what she gets for all that anonymity? Diane no one knows her real issue. The blending in on the crowd was intentional. It was not accidental and I think that's so pointful for us to think about today because how in fact I was just talking about this very fact this week with a few people churches that are very very large we'll say 500 a grand and up it's very easy to intentionally get lost in the crowd. Now good churches at that size have mechanisms in place to hold you back and get you connected you know greeters. We have we have things like that too. Now we're a much smaller church but Angelina sometimes people go to big churches because they get anonymity. I can come and I can worship Jesus and I'll just blend in. You know Tim I'm not going to stand out and Tim if I don't stand out then you don't get to know about my issues and I can just come and it's all well and good right? Nobody has to raise any hands or definitely nobody needs to point your fingers okay but Nelson when we start the story out this morning I want you to realize this woman's blending in on purpose and she's blending in on purpose to conceal her real issue as she approaches Jesus. Jarius and Jarius's daughter are truly the focus of this entire passage but stuck in the middle is this little section about this little woman who's looking for her own healing. If you're here this morning and you've been that anonymitous there we go anonymitous person I want to tell you the truth. Kim the truth is you can sit right there in that chair and have an issue that no one in this room knows about and you can get away with it but you can't hide it from Jesus. You can blend into the crowd at church but you can't hide it from Jesus. You can blend into the crowd at work but you can't hide it from Jesus. Take a look at your second blank this morning. She had a personal problem. She had a personal problem. Take a look at verse 25. A woman in the crowd suffered for 12 years with constant bleeding and yes the connotation you're thinking of is the right one because we have children in the room I'll just go ahead and say it that way. The connotation that you were thinking of for a woman having 12 years worth of bleeding is exactly on point with where she was. This woman suffered with this for 12 years and you know how I can identify with that because whilst they may not be my particular issue I have issues of my own. I have issues that I bring when I come to church. I have issues that I bring to my faith. I have issues that I bring when I spend time with God. If you're here this morning and you don't think you have an issue let me clue you in you have a pride issue because you don't think you have an issue. So let's start with that one and then we'll unwind the rest of them after that okay. Everybody has issues. Everybody has personal problems and you know what Anne I think a lot of times we get away with blending in the crowd because we don't want to talk about them. We don't want to make our personal problem the issue just like she didn't but the reality is when this woman enters the story she has a very personal issue and she might have gotten away with being faceless in the crowd for a minute. Some of you may have got a meeting and Pastor Rick my mentor was here a few weeks ago. He has a quote that I love and I love the way he says it. He says this we are all broken. Some of us wear our brokenness on the inside and some of us are stuck with our brokenness being visible on the outside but we're all really broken. I love the way he says that because Ray the reality is it's so true. We are all broken in some area of our life. We are all still rebuilding ourselves in some area of our life and unless Nelson we are honest and we say listen I am broken. I do have a problem and it might be personal you know it might not be one of those issues you want to just stand up and give a testimony about in the middle of church. I guarantee you she didn't. This is not the kind of issue that you wanted to bring up but there's another there's another facet of this woman's problem that you may not realize. We're in first century Jerusalem. She lives under the Jewish law. Do you know what that means? That means Diane this woman has been unclean ceremonially for 12 years. Everything she touches is ceremonially unclean. Every chair she sits in is ceremonially unclean. Every person she touches is ceremonially unclean. She is forbidden from going into the temple to the place of worship because she is ceremonially unclean. For 12 years this woman's issue kept her at a distance from the church and from its people and that is the truth of your issue too. Like I said if you don't think you have one just go with pride and we can talk about the rest after church. But Glenna we all have issues right and whether you realize it or not your issue is holding you back from your relationship with God just as this woman's was. Now she lived under a different law in a different society I'll totally give you that but the truth of this transcends to our lives today. We still have issues that get in the way of our relationship with God. Maybe not in the ceremonially unclean sense but really what is ceremonially unclean? Not fit for God right. That's what that means. Lynette if we had a cup or a jar or something that was consecrated for God that means I'm gonna use this for God's special purposes and not my own carnal purposes. Angelina is not what we say about ourselves. I'm gonna be a Christian I'm gonna stand over here and be used for God's special purposes except on Friday I'm over here and then on Monday I'm over here at work and I don't need everyone to know about my Christian stuff while I'm at work and all of a sudden we make ourselves ceremonially unclean because we take that which was consecrated for God and we use it for our own carnal purposes. This woman's personal problem caused a God problem. It caused a disconnect not only between her church she couldn't go to church. She could not go to the synagogue because the law. So now here's the question Kathy do you lie and conceal your own personal problems and then go to church and pretend like everything I know we don't do that okay. Everyone in this room is perfect but there is a church in a galaxy far far away somewhere where las people do that and we talk about the the front wheels touch the Holy Land of the church parking lot and instantly that church mask goes on and nobody needs to know about our issues and no one needs to know about our fights because while we're at church we're all gonna pretend to be perfect when a reality is you're just masking over your issues you're just hiding it so that you don't have to deal with it and the reality is Jesus wants to heal that issue but we conceal it we hide it and we keep it to ourselves. Just because you're here this morning and the focus isn't on you. Doesn't mean you don't have issues okay and it doesn't mean that they're going unnoticed by God and I'm the one that's up here I'm the one that's talking I'm the one that's the focus of this current story just like Jerry's was the focus of our story when we started. So just because this morning's church service it's not focused on you does not mean that your issue is going unnoticed or that God is not ready to fix it. Here's your third blank. She tried to fix it herself. Our unnamed woman tried to fix it herself. Let's look at our next couple of verses. This is 26 27 and 28. She suffered a great deal from many doctors and over the years she spent everything she had to pay them but she got no better. I can totally identify with that. I'm annual there are times in my life that I tried to do the right thing and I just absolutely jack it up. I try to fix my problem myself I'm gonna keep it to myself I'm just gonna I'm gonna ratchet through this I'm gonna muscle through it and I'm gonna do it my way. Number one I get the benefit nobody has to know about it right. I'm just gonna handle that on my own. I'm good man. Just gonna handle this to my private time with God. Just gonna handle it myself and yet she spent all that she had. By the time this woman approaches Jesus Julie she has nothing left. We see that. She spent everything she had to pay these earthly doctors and it didn't get any better. You know there's a saying in medicine oftentimes the cure is worse than the disease. You know my sister-in-law is a pharmacy tech and she told us one time that one of the first things they teach you in medical school. Does anybody know what the difference between medicine and poison is? Dosage. The difference between medicine and poison is dosage. If that's not a scary thought. I thought about it this way. How many times are you watching TV and those of you who have a DVR you don't I get apparently don't watch commercials but when we're stuck watching commercials and undoubtedly some some commercial for a new medicine comes on and Frank it really doesn't matter what the medicine is and it really doesn't matter what the supposed problem is because 75% of the commercial is the side effects. 75% of the commercial is the small text going across the bottom and somebody's speaking so fast it sounds like they're in an auction but somewhere in there death was a side effect and I'm going I'm sorry the fact that my hair is changing gray I don't want a pill might kill me. The cure can sometimes be worse than the ailment it's I remember there was a commercial and I forget which which drug it was but it was like sleepwalking or operating a motor vehicle while sleeping with no memory of the event was a side effect of this medicine. I was like okay Laz so not only will I sleepwalk but apparently I will do what I do in my sleep that I can't do when I'm awake which is remember where I put my stinking keys and actually get in my car and go for a ride and come home and never remember what I did. Like I'm not sure what you have is a personal problem but I think that pill might be its own problem. This woman tried everything she could with the medical knowledge of her day to fix her issue and Cindy she failed because at the end of the day you can't fix a spiritual problem with a physical answer. This woman's ailment had a physical repercussion it absolutely did but its healing came from a spiritual nature not a physical one. She spent everything she had trying every quick fix. Nelson every infomercial she could find every guy I was talking about my friend snake oil was what he my friend Jimmy's preaching the same message today and he had a big picture of a snake oil salesman. You know these got anybody that would possibly you know what she was buying Angelina? Hope. She spent every dime she had to buy hope that someone could fix this issue. Now there's something else in there that tells me and that says Doug she knew she had a problem. This wasn't an oh it'll get better it's not really you know she did not ignore her issue she was so committed to fixing her problem she had nothing left by the time she came to Jesus. She recognized that she had an issue. Now that's my question for you this morning. Do you know you have issues? Do you know that you have issues? I have enough issues I could start my own subscription service I don't need to list them for you but do you know what your issues are? Because if you can't even recognize that you have an issue how would you ever expect to be healed of that problem? This woman clearly recognized and when she heard about Jesus now what did she hear about him? Terry obviously that he's a healer. That he's a healer. What has she been looking for the whole time? Healing. She spent everything she had and then when she heard about Jesus she came up behind him through the crowd. Now here's something that's interesting. This woman's ceremonially unclean right? Lynette. Every single person she touches is ceremonially unclean and yet she's elbowing her way through a crowd. Think about the weight of that for a second. Think about what she risked to get her healing. This woman is ceremonially unclean and what we see the disciples said Jesus people are crowding you man. What are you talking about? Who touched you? We have people in close proximity and Kathy she is risking making the entire crowd ceremonially unclean just to get her healing. Here's your fourth blank this morning. Her healing was private. Her healing was private. Take a look at verse 29. Immediately the bleeding stopped and she could feel in her body that she had been healed. Now super awesome testimony to the healing power of Jesus. But what I want you to realize is who witnessed the healing? Only her. Him. This is not Lazarus coming out of the grave. This is not Jesus laying his hands on a dead girl and her coming back to life. This is very intimate. It is very private. At this moment there are only two people on the planet that know that she was healed. The woman herself and Jesus says we'll find out in a minute because Jesus and Jesus knew that power had gone out from him. At this moment Laz the healing is totally taking place and the only people who know about it are Jesus and the woman who needed to be healed. You may be here this morning with an issue that you are uncomfortable to say out loud that is okay. Your verbal out loud confession of your own issue your own sin is not required. Jesus can still heal you but what this woman had was commitment. She was committed to saying Angelina I want this out of my life. I want it gone. Jesus please take this from me and she did so through her actions and her words. If you have an issue today and I'm trying specifically not to give examples because I don't want to curb anybody's issues into a better or worse category because every time I say the word issue like four people in the room go and it's a different four every time but your issue this morning can be healed but Terry maybe I don't get to know about it. That's the rub right? Maybe God's gonna do a work in your life that I don't get to witness that I don't get to appreciate all the time. That's okay. I would still rather God change your heart than you sit here and pretend like there's no issue in the first place. This woman's healing was immediate. When she touched Jesus immediately the bleeding stopped. When she reached out to Christ in faith all things are possible. The name of Jesus still heals the stick, still calms the sea, still casts out the devil and still raises the dead. The name of Jesus still every knee will bow on heaven and on earth to that name. The name of Jesus has never lost any of its power but Anne what I want you to see this morning Jesus did not have to publicly recognize the healing for it to have taken place. This is two separate issues. Julie she was completely healed here in verse 29 and was done. It was over. If Jesus had continued walking on and the rest of the story was different this woman still would have been healed. Her healing is not a component of what happens next. Jack she was completely healed because she approached Jesus in faith. Here's your last blank. Her healing was private but her testimony was public. Her healing was private but her testimony was public. Let's look at the last couple of verses here verse 30 to 34. Jesus realized that once healing power had gone out from him so he turned around in the crowd and asked who touched my robe. Now this brings up an interesting theological point here that we should talk about. Diane can you steal from Jesus? Right? Isn't that what it kind of looks like? This woman deceptively concealed her issue and crept up behind Jesus and like pickpocketed healing out of his robe. That's what it looks like isn't it? No you don't steal healing from Abbey. You don't steal healing oil from Jesus. That's not exactly how this worked. Jesus while he was on earth still had the power to heal. His touch still had the power to heal and he allowed this woman to be healed in private but then chose to recognize her publicly. Jesus is making a point here. Ray he makes a point of stopping. He could have walked on but he didn't. He made a point of stopping and turn around say who touched my robe and his disciples said to him dude the new international bill version Jesus it's like a crowd of people here. How am I supposed to know who touched your robe? That particular disciples from New York. Who touched me? I love that. Look at this crowd pressing around you. How can you ask who touched me? But he kept on looking around. Jesus knew. Jesus knew and he kept on looking around and he gave this woman the time and then see how she responds. Then the frightened woman trembling at the realization of what had happened to her. Julie for 12 years this woman carried around an issue and in a moment it was gone. That kind of power can be trepidatious. That kind of Lynette what am I gonna do? I don't have to carry this issue. For 12 years I have been burdened with this problem and now it's gone. Now the elation that must have taken place because she knew immediately she was healed in her body. That elation must have been gigantic but Judy right after that elation came the realization. He's calling me out now. Uh-oh. Like I may have she may have concealed her approach to Jesus but her exfiltration plan did not work. She did not get out of this scenario quietly. So she came and fell to her knees in front of him and told him what she had done. How interesting that on the way to a healing Jesus performs a healing. The crowd is already expecting to watch him heal the daughter of Jarius and in fact Doug if you were to read on what you would find is while Jesus is healing this woman Jarius's daughter dies. That's really the rest of the story that I don't have time to write a second sermon for this week but Kathy while he stops to heal this woman Jarius's daughter dies. Now ultimately Jesus goes to the home of Jarius and exemplifies the son of man's power not only over illness but over death and raises the girl back to life but Jesus made he took a beat to use a term from from my high school theater days. Jesus just took a beat. He took a beat and he turned around and he gave this woman public acknowledgement of the healing of her private issue. Again I talked about the difference between Jarius and the unnamed woman. Jarius is a man she is a woman. Jarius is well respected she is unclean. Jarius comes to Jesus openly the woman comes to Jesus in a concealed fashion and yet Jesus turns all of that around by putting Jarius's request on hold and he makes a moment. Jesus gives her her healing in private which is what she sought right. Diane she wanted to be healed and she got it but then Jesus makes a moment for her and he exemplifies for the crowd. I'm not here to just heal the important people. This woman who concealed herself all the way through the crowd risking the uncleanliness of who knows how many people. If she had not have been healed she just made like half the crowd unclean and they didn't even know it. Then the next time somebody goes to walk into church and their hand just catches on fire they don't know why they're unclean. She risked an awful lot and here in the final line, daughter your faith has made you well go in peace. In spite of her incredibly personal issue in spite of the 12 years worth of ramifications that that issue had put into her life her faith was strong enough to take that step one more time. She had put her faith in doctors, she had put her faith in medicine, she had put her faith in so many things and all of it had left her wanting. I don't know about you but with me and my issues I have tried multiple times to fix it myself to do my own thing and it it just didn't work and you know what last sometimes you get tired of trying right. Sometimes you get tired if I can't fix it this time screw it this is who I am. I hear that all the time. If I can't fix this issue this time then I'm done. Just tell everybody this is who I am and they can deal with it because what is it really Angelina I'm tired of trying. No I'm tired of trying and failing. You're not really tired of trying you're tired of trying and not winning. Nobody plays a game that they lose over and over and over and over and over. Some point some point you want to win. At some point you want to see that issue slain and in the gutter and not rearing its ugly head every other day in your life. Despite all that this woman went through she was not the focus of the engagement. She said I'm going to step out in faith one more time. One more time I'm gonna try. I've heard about this Jesus. I've heard that he can heal and I'm ready to take one more step and find out if he can heal me. I want to ask you if that's the point that you're at today. With whatever your issue is are you ready to take one more step one more try one more time and give whatever that issue is over to Jesus and see if he just doesn't heal you completely and immediately just like this woman was. She was immediately healed. Do me a favor take a look at the back of your connection card. This week is such an important week to take a next step because you know and I know you have issues. The question is are you going to leave here concealing your issues or are you going to take a step of faith and change your life. I leave you with the same opportunity that the woman had in the story. Glenna you can walk out of this room completely unchanged or you can walk out of this room transformed and that choice is up to you. So take a look at your next steps this morning. This week I will challenge an area of unbelief in my life. If you don't believe that your issue can be healed it won't be. Is that the next step from last week? Yes it is. No it's not. Because the first the the upcoming events are changed but that's not the right one. The first next step for this week is yeah they're in the bulletin. This week I will stop ignoring a problem. That's what it's supposed to be. Sorry about that. This week I will stop ignoring a problem. If you have an issue and you're ignoring it or you're not even calling it an issue it won't get resolved. Abby there's no way to fix a problem unless you recognize it's a problem. So this week is that you? Have you been letting something go just sort of letting it slide because oh it's not a big issue. You know what Jack it's not a big problem. So we'll just let it go. We'll just let it ride. I'll fix it later. I'll fix it. You know when I'm not so busy Terry I'll get around to fixing that issue. But right now I have bigger issues on the plate. Your second one. This week I will stop trying to fix my problem myself. You cannot fix a spiritual problem with a physical touch. Just not gonna work. Is there something in your life that needs to be fixed that only Jesus can fix? I'm sorry. If that's the truth then that's where you need to be. And I'm really not sorry about that. I'm sorry that it hurts. Sometimes it's difficult to admit I have a problem. Sometimes it's difficult to openly say this is an issue I wanted to be fixed. But if you are not willing to recognize that and take that step it will never happen. Finally this week I will share my personal encounter with Jesus. This is the ongoing next step for this whole series. Nelson if you have had God do something in your life and you have had an encounter that is real then you have a testimony. Just like this woman had. Jesus made a point of showing her testimony and we studied it today. Your testimony becomes a story for the next person to hear about a real true loving living God. Do not be selfish with what God has done in your life. It's not all about you. And can I say that and you're not be like super mad at me. It's not all about you. Debbie sometimes God does things in our life because he wants to use that story to change somebody else's life. And then when we don't have the guts to stand up and talk about how great God is and what he's done in our life you negate the value of what Jesus did for you. See this woman probably was expecting to kind of just walk out of the crowd as concealed as she walked in. I think she was she was tired of being unclean. She may have been ashamed of her current state not being able to fix it. And she wanted to just kind of get in get that healing and leave. And Jesus said daughter you have missed the point. I'll give you your healing. But this is something that should be celebrated. And if it wasn't for the fact that Jesus making this moment it would have never made it into the Word of God and we would never know. And she still would have been healed. Diane this woman still would have received her healing. But the value of her testimony lives on. If you have had an encounter with Jesus don't keep it to yourself. Don't be selfish. Let God work in your story and in your life and use your life story to change someone else's life. And finally your memory verse for this week it is in your bulletin. I will memorize Mark chapter 5 verse 34 where Jesus turns to a woman and says your faith has healed you. What is your faith doing for you today? Is it just like you know the cover on your Bible that you pick up when you come to church? Is your faith a component of your daily life? Do you get up and spend time with God and go Lord what am I gonna do for you today? Or better yet how will I serve you in what I have to do? I know everybody doesn't work at a church and believe it or not working at a church does not mean I just get to read my Bible all day every day. Like I'm sorry that's just not true. If the church had a facility you definitely are not sitting there reading your Bible and just singing Kumbaya all day long. That is not what happens. But that does not mean that in doing whatever it is you do in your normal day or in Terry your very very rarely normal day that you cannot do it as unto God. How is God working in your life? How is your faith working in your life? If you're here this morning and you feel like you've never had that one-on-one encounter with Jesus and you want to do me a favor on the left hand side of your connection card it says send me info about beginning life with Jesus. I would love to have a one-on-one conversation with you about what it means to have a relationship with Jesus. About what it means to live daily knowing that you are in the presence of God. To hear Him guide you and help you through the tough times of life. Rededicating my life that's very similar. Maybe you made a decision for Jesus at some point in your life but things happen. You move the economy, work, getting married, everything seems to draw on your time before you know it. Your faith isn't really where you wanted it to be. If that's you this morning you can select rededicating my life. You can also see there how to grow spiritually baptism, church membership. We've got a couple events coming up. Gentlemen if you are going paintballing I need you to sign up because I have to call the park on Wednesday and give them an approximation of how many gentlemen we're bringing. $40 covers your guns, your gear, and your ammo for the day and the church is providing lunch for all the men who go. So I need a count. So if you're coming you don't have to pay today. You can pay the park when we get there but I need a count. Young adults pizza party and I'll say it again adults even if you're not a young adult. Please pray for poker night. Again there's probably the only church in the world you've heard that sentence from the pulpit. Please pray for poker night. Last year our church lost seven young adults because there are seven families, seven individuals that represented four families because we did not have a way to tie in our young adults and get them connected in a way that they could stay connected to the church. I don't want to repeat that same mistake this year. If all of it means is scheduling a few extra events and taking some time to personally let these young adults spend some time together and grow and be able to trust one another then that's worth it rather than watch our family continue to lose church members because we didn't have it there. There's one other thing I want to point out and that is our church is growing and we're about to have to use a really good term a booming amount of growth in one very specific area and that's our nursery. In the next four months our nursery is going to double in size because we have three new babies on their way that will all be here very soon. Kim's about to have her little one, Savalas's wife Natalie's about to have her little one and Dustin and Julia are about to have another one and I'll just tell you the honest truth we don't have enough nursery workers because once we have that many people we're gonna have to go to two nursery workers per week in there because I am NOT about to stick one person with five kids under the age of three. That's just not happening. So number one we have to go to two nursery workers a week and number two I want to make sure whoever serves in the nursery they're off the following week because those people don't get to sit in here with us. So this is me telling you as the pastor of our church we will not keep the young families we have now if we don't improve our nursery. So if you're here this morning and you would be willing to take a turn on rotation I am NOT asking for someone to sit in the nursery every single week from now till the end of time but I am asking will you help minister to the young families that we have because I'm one of those young families and I'll be honest I would not go to a church that did not care about my children. I and I'll be even more honest my wife and kids will go somewhere else and I'll come to work if people can't take care of my own children or the other young children in our family because it's just not fair. Savalas is here at 7 a.m. in the morning to run sound and his wife's about to have a baby. Kim is one of our primary nursery workers and she's on maternity leave so she can actually have her baby. The young families that we have in our church they serve us well they work hard and I want to show them the respect that they deserve by making sure that we take care of the little Lills because they're super cute on Easter and Christmas but they're here in church every other week of the year too. So please please help me out what I want to do is put two nursery workers in that room every week on rotation so if we have six people then that means you only have to serve once every three weeks if we have eight people then you only have to serve once a month but I don't want to let our little ones not be important because Emily's already in there, Siana's already in there, now you add three brand new babies now we're at five and that's if we and Raelyn now we're at six and that's if nobody new comes to church. Now what happens when somebody new comes in you know what I want when someone new comes in I want them to experience what what Kim and I experience which is there's somebody in there who's smiling and happy and ready to minister to a young child not just playing with their phone going oh yeah put the baby bag over there oh heck no player I'm out if that ever happens in our nursery I'm gone and I'm never coming back. Help me make sure the little ones in our congregation can be important please consider taking a rotation in the other than that church I love you pastor Jack