Our current series is called pillars strong faith starts here and what we're really doing is We're looking at truths that are several hundreds of years old back in the 1600s there was this little thing that happened called the Reformation and there's this group of people that broke away from the Catholic Church and the reason that all of this happened was the Catholic Church had gotten into some areas of doctrine that are counter to what the Bible teaches and So guys like Martin Luther and a whole bunch of other German guys and some non-german guys But Martin Luther is probably the most famous name from the Reformation they started to study the Bible and realized that some of the teachings of the church were actually not the teachings of the Bible and I wanted to start off this morning with that message because if you look on the back of your bulletin You'll see that you have some notes and this morning's message is entitled sola Christus or Christ alone That's why that particular song was really good to do this morning because it's exactly the title of sermon Christ alone now every Every message in this series we're starting off on a key thought and I actually have it for you right there on the top Your bulletin but here it is on the screen. Here's the key thought for this series a healthy Christian life is guarded and guided by a firm Foundation and the reason we say guarded and guided is when you have a firm Foundation on what you believe then Tim the first thing is you are guarded against bad teaching or in church terms We call that heresy Heresy is incorrect or bad teaching when you have a firm foundation and you know that you know what you believe Then you are guarded against heresy bad teaching The other benefit is you are guided in good decision-making When you know you have a foundation on what you believe you have a firm footing to be able to make good decisions moving forward So that's the whole point behind us going through the five solas or the five pillars that came out of the Reformation And this morning we're talking about sola Christus or in Christ alone to put it in a simple sentence Solachristus means Jesus Christ is the only way to be saved That's a pretty simple Basic statement I would imagine considering that we're here in a Christian church this morning Kim I think most people would agree with that statement Jesus Christ is the only way to be saved But miss Diane there are some problems with that statement not that the statement is untrue, but I Just need to keep talking all right great. There are some problems with that statement from the fact that there are some Called I'll call them lies There are some outright lies in our modern-day culture that challenge the idea that Jesus is the only way Just like in the 1600s when Martin Luther had to overcome some incorrect teaching There are some incorrect ideas that are bouncing around today, and I want to attack them one by one So if you'll see here on the back of your notes you have lie truth lie truth Tim what we're gonna. Do is look at fuck. Can you turn me down just a little it's a little loud um Because you've left me no room if I want to get loud and yell at everybody Not that I yell all the time don't freak out I'm just saying what I want to do is examine five lies that exist in our current-day culture that challenge the truth of Jesus is the only way to be saved so here's your first blank this morning. Here's the lie The lie is everyone will go to heaven Come back over here the lie is everyone will go to heaven and here's the truth Salvation is free But it is not Universal salvation is free, but it is not universal Now let me tell you about this lie Everyone will go to heaven there's a lot of people who believe it if you're looking for the technical term. It's called universalism Universalism is the underlying belief that no matter who you are where you lived or what time period you have lived Everyone ends up in heaven eventually that is universalism it is based on the idea that because God is Omnibenevolent which means God is all-loving And God is omnipotent or omnipotent meaning all-powerful That God will allow everyone into heaven so Dan allow me to play devil's advocate with you for just a minute. Okay? Do you believe? That people will go to heaven Dan You do okay, that's wonderful. And do you believe? that God lets everyone into heaven Everyone all the time Everyone all the time No, you don't So you either believe in a God that's not powerful enough to let everyone into heaven or a God that's not loving enough to let Everyone to heaven so which one is it? You see how easy you see how easy that happened Because see here's the modern-day lie with universalism Dan if your God was powerful enough to let in there in the end to heaven Then he would and if he was loving enough to let everyone into heaven he would so the only reason God doesn't let everyone into heaven Is your God is either not powerful enough to do so or not loving enough to choose to do so That's modern-day universalism. Well, Judy. There's a problem with that statement and Dan I'm gonna go ahead and finish it for you. What you're gonna say is yes, but you're forgetting about justice God is all-powerful and he is all-loving but he is also all-just and Let me ask you mr. Universalist Do you think it is just that everyone should go to heaven treat everybody the same? That's fair, right? Okay, so Mother Teresa and Hitler are the same So a child rapist and a man who spends his entire life feeding the poor are the same See, it's amazing how from a first glance it feels like universalism is all good and it's fair and it's equal Let's treat everybody the same but Kim were not all the same Even from a human perspective most people would not consider mother Teresa and Hitler To be in the same category or caliber of person Universalism builds on the lie Amanda that treating everyone the same is the most fair choice but the problem is We're not all the same and as I pointed out we've forgotten about God's justice Is it just to create a standard and then not hold anyone to it is it just That when we teach our children Not to do something Amanda you and I probably go through a lot of the similar challenges When you're talking to your son and you're trying to explain to your son Not to do something and you explain it to him and you tell it to him and you ask him and you do all these Things and then he still does it You have to hold him to that standard we easy in the human parents we do that So the the lie that everyone will go to heaven is actually more unjust Than having a standard we could argue about which standard at a later date But Eric having any standard is more just than having no standard the perspective of universalism ignores the righteousness and Justice elements of God's character God's justice requires that a standard that was laid down be upheld Take a look at this Matthew chapter 7 verses 13 and 14 Now I do not have I was running out of room on the back your bulletin so you're gonna have to write down the The verse annotations of where we're at so Jackie here we go Matthew chapter 7 verses 13 and 14 in the New Living Translation You can enter God's kingdom only Only through the narrow gate the highway to hell everybody play that song in your head really quick is broad and Its gate is wide for the many for the many who choose that way But the gateway to life is very narrow and the road is difficult and only a few ever Find it The lie that everyone will go to heaven Takes all personal responsibility away from you you don't have to do anything you just can float through life Meander about and at the end of the day end up where you want to go by doing nothing But I think as God's Word clearly points out there is more than one eternal destination Everybody just doesn't end up you know like you know those luggage racks at the airport It's what I always think of when somebody tells me about universalism I always think about a lug luggage rack and Lynette we all put our luggage on and then we watch it all just You know and it really never goes anywhere. It just keeps going straight, and just keeps going and going because you know what the luggage doesn't have a Choice in what it does the luggage is put on the rack And then it just goes the reality is God created us with the capability of choice And he has already made a standard so the first lie that I want you to fully understand this morning is Salvation is free God does not require anything, but belief in Jesus to receive salvation, but Cindy. It's not universal God is going to offer it and Then Judy God will allow you not to accept salvation and go to hell That does not mean God forced you we had this discussion in our Tuesday night Bible study if people go to hell does that mean? That God wanted it that way no. I do not believe so But Lena I believe he allows it that way and there is a difference between what God allows and what God wants Here is your second lie this morning Good people will go to heaven Here's the truth Saved people go to heaven Savalas it sounds good right oh yeah You think you walk up to any random stranger on the street and say do you think that you're going to go to heaven and Ninety-nine point nine percent where they can say I think I'm a good person the idea of entrance into heaven and Good just somehow got immediately correlated the idea that This this this lie right here is based on the idea that you can be good enough to get into heaven That Natalie there's some kind of good enough standard that as long as I'm good enough Well this good enough idea is really based on one of two sort of sub statements. You're either in Camp A Which means my life meets the basic requirements for biblical living the ten commandments Somebody you know I have so many people that I'll say well do you think you're going oh, yeah, you know I'm pretty good I keep the ten commandments. I haven't killed anybody lately I'm not interested in my brother's wife or my neighbor's wife And I don't steal and I try you know I try to take a nap before the football game on Sundays So that probably counts. I don't curse a lot. So yeah, I think I'm good enough and The second group of people in the good enough category go well, you know what Tammy? I'm better than so-and-so so of course I get to go to heaven because I'm not that bad It's like good by by casual measurement Eric I get to go to heaven because you and I aren't like Darren so let's come on Let's get a little bit of a benefit here. We're not that bad So at least we get to go to heaven and this is what I think is so funny Doug Whenever somebody is in this this B camp this I'm better than category Do you notice that they're always in the good side of the category? I've never heard Sean. I've never heard somebody go. You know what? I'm not as good as them So I don't think I'm in I've never heard somebody use that self logic the reverse way go. You know what I'm Diane I'm just I'm not as good as you are So I think Diane gets to go to heaven, but I might be I might not be I might need some son I might need some sunscreen for for eternity The idea that being good enough is false If you're in the first camp that believes the ten commandments are gonna get you into heaven I have a shocking truth for you Nowhere in all of God's Word are the ten commandments ever linked to eternal life ever Anywhere, please read the book for yourself. I'm not lying There is no mention in all of the Bible that the ten commandments have anything to do with With Eternal living and any standard they are the beginning of God's law in the Old Testament to teach his children But TJ they were never intended to be about eternal life They were never intended to be any kind of a standard for living that would have an expectation of eternal life and if you're in the I'm better than if you're in the those people category I Have a little bit of news for you take a look at Mark chapter 16 Verses 15 and 16 mark chapter 16 verses 15 and 16 and He told them this is Jesus speaking go into all the world and preach the good news to everyone Anyone who believes and is baptized will be saved but anyone who refuses to believe Will be condemned That's pretty straightforward Debbie I don't think there's any way we're getting out of this one The idea that the ten commandments are gonna get you into heaven is a lie The idea that you're gonna get into heaven because you're better than some other group of people that you choose is a lie This is pretty clear Diane saved people go to heaven non-saved people don't but Terry I gotta be honest I picked this passage because I wanted to also point out a Fallacy something that church people believe that's also not true here in the very end of verse 15 We see that anyone who believes and is baptized will be saved Now there are people who have taken this verse and tried to use it to justify the fact that baptism is a part of your salvation I need you to read both verses together and you'll see anyone who believes and is baptized will be saved But anyone who refuses to believe will be condemned you can't say that baptism is a part of being saved If I can be condemned only for not believing does that make sense? I just want to I want to establish that if you run across somebody that thinks baptism is a necessary for salvation Tell them they should probably read the whole section Not just the one verse because when you read the whole section I think it's pretty obvious anyone who refuses to believe will be condemned good people don't go to heaven Saved people go to heaven if you believe yes, if you don't believe no no ten commandments No righteousness by comparison Take a look at your third lie this morning. This is a fun one Jesus is the same as other mythical gods or prophets Jesus is the same as other mythical gods or prophets the truth Jesus is the one and only son of God Now this lie this Jesus is the same as other mythical gods or prophets This is based on the idea that Jesus is only one incarnation or messenger for God Almighty and This one plays really well Judy. I think this one People want to believe this one. It makes us feel good It seems obvious that if God were so powerful that he would have more than one messenger And if you follow this logic out what it does is it makes Jesus? equal to Buddha Muhammad Krishna all the other people who have claimed Joseph Smith all the other people who have claimed to be a representative of God this puts Jesus on par with all of them and makes them equal and Whilst this feels good or a rewind or there's another part of this Which is you think Jesus is equal to the other mythical gods from history that Jesus is the same as the Greek God Hercules who was part heaven and part human or if we go all the way back to the Egyptian God of Horus who was part heaven and part human if you go throughout history there are several mythical Mythological there are several mythological not mythological There are several mythological gods that are part human and part heaven and so Judy people will say well Jesus is just another one of those myths the myth of Jesus being human and divine is no different than the myth of Horus or the myth of Hercules Now wait a minute like I believe in Jesus all of a sudden you're gonna start calling him a myth I got massive problems with that number one I could take my Bible and put it aside and go to Greco Roman history Jewish history even Islamic history and prove that Jesus was a real person So I'm already doing a little bit better than Hercules and Horus But beyond that I could actually defend the gospel from those other historical documents Jesus is not the same as Hercules and Horus Jesus is not the same as Buddha and Muhammad and Christa and Joseph Smith And this is why John chapter 1 This is verse 1 2 and then verse 14 took a little bit of a break from his statement 1 2 and 14 read it all Together in the beginning the word Jesus already existed the word was with God and the word was God He existed in the beginning with God so the word became human and made his home among us He was full of unfailing love and faithfulness and we have seen his glory the glory of the Father's one and only Son There is only one person in all of recorded history that that is capable of describing Jesus was the literal Son of God if you need any more proof find me the bones from the resurrection and we'll be done and And Christians have been saying it since the resurrection happened Jesus is the only person in recorded history to have physically resurrected from the grave that in and of itself Stops stops the train cold. There is no one else who has done what Jesus has done Therefore no one else's teachings are as valid Because Kim if I want someone to teach me about eternal life, I would like to see someone who lived past death honestly I'm gonna open a nail salon tomorrow and start doing nails Doesn't you want proof that I actually know what I'm doing better yet. Let me open a hair salon Angelina Will you come at 10 o'clock? Let me do your hair No, why not? I like my hair and you don't trust that I could do it. Well, why? Because you've never seen me deliver on what I say I can do Jesus is the only person in recorded history who can deliver on the promise of life after death because he is the only person in recorded history who actually did it So do not give in to the idea and there there are some really Interesting and intriguing videos out there on YouTube that will compare and and break down the myth of Jesus To be as equal to all these other people I say Dan great show me one other person who has bodily Physically resurrected and if you haven't paid attention to the Bible after Easter Jesus walked around on earth for 40 Days and he ate and spent time and taught his disciples So this is not just a one-time magical body disappearance Jesus was witnessed by individuals and groups for 40 days and then his disciples Actually did watch him ascend into heaven at the ascension So no one else on earth has met that standard. So let's not impugn The divinity of Jesus by claiming that he's equal to these other people Here's line number four There's more than one way to heaven Okay, Tracy, I'll give it to you. Maybe Jesus is not exactly the same as these other mythical people As these other mythical gods and prophets, but you know what? There's there's just got to be more than one way into heaven the truth Jesus is the only way to heaven This lie is based on the idea that christianity can't be the only right way there's got Dan there's just got to be more ways It makes sense now How many of you do the grocery shopping for your families? Show of hands who does the grocery shopping? Okay Everyone with your hands down you can take a 20 second pause all of you with your hands up. Here you go those of you who do the grocery shopping Don't you have a? usual Road and map that you take to get where you're going Do you find yourself doing kind of the same route? You'll come out of your driveway turn down this street take a left down this street Because you're starting at a familiar point of origin and you're ending up at a familiar point of destination So we have our usual way Now terry what happens when there's construction and you've got to change your usual way Right that seems very normal right very logical. We'll just find another way This is the mentality that people bring to eternity And they say you know what my usual I grew up as a christian. Yeah, you know what? Cole I went to church all the time as a kid. It was cool, but I grew up and Man, the church stuff just doesn't seem to make sense anymore. And so i'm gonna find a new way and we We trivialize eternity to being equal to that of grocery That fast if there's not my normal way to get to the grocery store, then i'll just take a different one Well, let me put it to you this way All the world's religions agree on a singular point All the world's religions agree on a singular point that our afterlife is determined by our earthly life Everybody agrees on this we disagree about what is the determining factor and how it will be determined But almost all the world's religions agree on one single statement. Our afterlife is determined by our earthly life So eric, let me ask you a question If our afterlife is determined by our earthly life and it is so important that we only get to do it once And that's the only way we can get to the end of it So what's the only way we can get to the end of it? So what's the only way we can get to the end of it? Let me say this eric you and angelina just signed up for a marathon, okay Congratulations, by the way, i'll get your water bottle. You just signed up for a marathon you get there day one And you're you're on the starting line You can't see The finish line You turn to one of the race officials. We'll call them terry for now And so you turn to terry and you say hey terry i'm trying to run this race My wife and I are ready to go. We're dressed. We're ready for the marathon Where do we go and terry goes? Oh the finish line's out there if you if you find it The finish line's out there if you can find it How eager would you be to run that marathon again? Why? No, no, no, there is a place to go Right. There is a place to go terry's told you there's a finish line out there somewhere But there's no instructions to get there. There's no guidelines. There's no path to follow Likewise julie. Let's say you take up a college course and on day one of that college course you show up and The professor says welcome to blah blah blah 201. I'll be your professor Your final exam will be on blah blah blah date. Thank you. See you then and walks out How prepare and then you say well, what about a reading list? What about a syllabus? How am I to prepare for the final exam and the teacher says oh, you'll just know it when you get there You'll exactly you'll just figure it out How how how trivial? Does that make the final exam if you have no way to understand how to prepare for it? I think this idea that there's more than one way to heaven is is attractive in the beginning tj Because we like the flexibility We like the personal freedom to choose our own method of getting somewhere but last if something as important As eternity is a one-way trip that you don't get to do a second time Why would you think it's more logical that there are no instructions? Does it not follow that it is actually more logical that there is a right way to do it if it's in one way trip? Is it more logical that all of the world's religions which by the way don't agree are all correct? Or that there is actually a correct way and the rest are wrong It is more logical that there is one right way Than all right ways You cannot be right and left and be the same any basic mathematician can tell you that A plus non a does not equal a times two For those of you who really like algebra For those of you who don't just forget that one The idea that there's more than one way to heaven makes us feel good doug because it puts the power of choice in your hands but the reality is That's not the case. The reality is Jesus is the only way to heaven take a look at john chapter 14 Verse 6 the words of jesus himself. I am the way the truth and the life No one Can come to the father except through me I know some of this may sound like these verses that you hear all the time in church, but this is exactly why Because there are so many prevalent ideas today that challenge the validity of the gospel of jesus Just like in the 1600s when martin luther and all of his friends had to recoil back from bad teaching We have to be able to defend our faith against all of these other ideas that are out there and say you know what ray No, I don't believe there's more than one way to heaven Because it doesn't make sense And then have a nice conversation with your friend or your co-worker and say tracy Does it really make sense that all the different world's religions that all don't agree must all be right? And then somebody will go no, maybe not. So then how can you say it? Well because And then what it'll ultimately come down to is your last point This is where everything boils down to if you can finally get someone to admit it. Here's your last lie My perception of right and wrong decides what is sinful My perception of right and wrong decides what is sinful the truth God both defines and judges sin And this is where these previous four lies all bring us people don't want to give in and believe That jesus is the only way because then they would have to accept the bible They would have to accept Jesus's teachings and that might put a cramp in my lifestyle Because as long as I believe that I have some Some magical internal compass that can tell me the difference between right and wrong. I have my own Moral compass that tells me what is right and wrong. Therefore. I know what is sinful and what is not sinful And that sounds really good when you say it but shawn there's a huge problem here You may know the difference between right and wrong But shawn does your definition of right and wrong work for every single person who has ever lived on the planet? No Relativism The idea that ray what is right and wrong for you doesn't necessarily have to be right and wrong for me Doesn't necessarily have to be right and wrong for judy that there are no more moral absolutes. There are no more true tried and true all the time measuring sticks And as such sin is kind of an outdated term. That's why I love the fact that jefferson in his video He said yes, I still believe in sin Because there's whole denominations now that want to say that sin doesn't really exist anymore Because and here's the problem if sin doesn't exist and what's the point of jesus? Like I got a huge problem with that if we don't believe sin even exists Then what's the point of salvation? What's the point of jesus? What was the point of the cross? What was the point of anything if sin doesn't even exist anymore? This idea that my perception of right and wrong decides what is sinful is based on the idea that we have an internal compass That tells us what is and is not sinful based on our own Viewpoint we are the final determination of what is and is not sinful Let me give you a challenging example from my life When I was younger before I met melanie by like three four years I had moved out of my parents house and I really had no intention of going back. I have great parents, but everybody goes through this I'm young and free and don't need to listen to you phase and that's where I was that in my life. That's where I was And I was living With my girlfriend and her divorced mom at the time So it was me and my girlfriend and her mom and we were sharing this two-bedroom house While I was going to bible college during the day to learn how to be a pastor and I had no problems with it whatsoever And I one of my instructors when they finally found out about my living situation Made me move into the boys dorm and I was very angry. I did I was like what is the point here? And years later now I realize there's no point in doing ministry if you don't have the character to back it up Because no one will believe what you say No one will believe that you believe in sin if you choose to live it willingly. So here, let me give you a little statistic Does anybody know The amount of percent of increase in cohabitating unmarried couples from 1960 to the year 2000 A thousand percent The number of couples who lived together unmarried from 1960 just to the year 2000 increased ten fold Now I also did some additional research Do you know that there is no Truly vetted correlation because a lot of people will say lanette living together before you get married threatens your marriage I've heard that a lot. I've heard a lot of pastors say that But nobody can point me to the research where they actually tested that numerically Nobody can point me to the research that empirically says that So I I I did I spent like 30 minutes reading a bunch of different Psychology articles and I could find no truly empirical mathematical proof That shows that living together unmarried threatens the state of the marriage afterwards Except for one exception Those who live together with a member of the opposite sex Are less likely To be married twice Now you could interpret that as oh, I'm going to get married once and stay married Once or you can interpret it as you're less likely to be successful in marriage To me it was all in the way they interpreted the data. It made it very unfair But let's take the divorce thing out of the equation for a second between 1960 and 2000 40 years in our own country the number of people who live together without being married has increased 1 000 percent or 10 times Because see And the people want to argue well bill the bible doesn't have to be married twice See and the people want to argue well bill the bible doesn't really say And I know i'm picking one issue And on the vast stream of our culture i'm picking one issue, but ray I wanted to pick an issue That is culturally acceptable, but still biblically unacceptable And i'm sure now that I just said that all of you have your own ideas in your mind I probably could have picked a couple bigger issued ones. Yes, I could have I chose to pick one that was a little less Likely to be on the ballot this year Okay, I picked an issue that is culturally acceptable And yet is still biblically unacceptable and I also picked an issue that I was personally guilty of so you couldn't Blame me for just pointing at people and yelling at them Here's the deal The lie of my perception of right and wrong decides what is sinful judy It means that i'm free to live life the way I want and I can write my own check for what is and is not right for my life The problem is that doesn't jive with the teachings of the bible God is still the ultimate decider of what is sin and what is righteous and when we attempt to stand in his place We are insulting the very work of jesus. Take a look at these two scripture references together The first is first john chapter 3 verse 4 and the second is romans 3 23 The person who breaks or the person who sins breaks god's law. Yes sin is living against god's law I think that one's kind of obvious and then romans 3 23 Everyone has sinned and fallen short of god's glorious standard Like lennette, I don't know. It's a big secret, but everybody sins So why do we get so uptight in the idea of talking about sin? Why does everybody all of a sudden get uncomfortable when the pastor wants to bring out the three letter s word? And we want to talk about sin and it's your tim if we all sin and that means we're all equal So let's just take off the pretend mask of self-righteousness and own it we are all equal We are all sinners in some way shape or form We all live in a sinful world. We all struggle with temptation to sin Own it I don't I don't understand why so many people when they come to church want to try to pretend that I am the one sinless person on the planet You know, I I know you i've told you guys several times when I was a kid when the front doors Or the front tires of the car touched the holy land of the church parking lot All of a sudden all the family arguments in the car shut down and we are super righteous and awesome and smiley family Until the car leaves the church unless you're going out to lunch with church people because then you don't have time to argue Between there and the restaurant because you got to put the face back on again The truth is god alone Defines what is sin now? Why why am I ending the christ alone message here because cindy? Just like in the 1600s There was a threat That was directly threatening the work of jesus. It was called indulgences and dan what would happen is you would come to church And you would give a financial offering To one of the priests and in return He would pull out this little piece of parchment and he would scribble on it and you would purchase Forgiveness for yourself for a family member or for a deceased family member I could go back in time and buy forgiveness for my great great grandma Who didn't have the money to buy her forgiveness before she died? And what it was doing is it was it was? Chipping away At the real forgiving work of jesus Well, what I have hoped that i've tried to show you today is that hasn't gone away. It's just changed its face a little bit I'll give you four completely different lives that are all very valid today that people try to use to challenge the forgiving work of jesus There is only one way to heaven His name is only jesus. No one has lived the life that he has lived This is got to be A foundational belief for each and every person who calls themselves a christian because amanda if you can't stand firm on this pillar There's really no more important pillar to start Let's be honest You can come at me with the horus thing and you can come at me with the the grocery store thing and you can come at Me with all these things, but I believe in jesus and I ain't moving off this pillar And you're gonna have to kill me to prove it This has to in my opinion of the five solas, this is the one that's the most important This is the one where we all have to start and say no i'm not insensitive Because I believe in the truth of the statement We start what do we start our message out this morning with one very simple statement that sort of sums up The the belief of solo christus Jesus christ is the only way to be saved Belief And people lanette people are going to come at me and say but bill You are a bigot you are closed-minded You are all of these things because you because people don't believe the way you do then they're sinful I say no everybody's sinful including me agreeing with the way I believe is not a statement about sinfulness Agreeing with what I believe is a statement about forgiveness. It's a statement about salvation. It's not a statement about judgment Because we're all sinful. That's where we all started So, please don't misinterpret or misunderstand the extreme importance of this pillar in your life We have to start and stand on the idea that jesus is the only way to be saved So here's my question to you this morning How many of these lies before I broke them down would you have been tempted to agree with in passing conversation? You know what tim we're sitting around the water cooler at the bike shop And somebody says you know what? I just don't get why all the different world religions are different. Yeah I just think everybody's gonna go to heaven Oh, okay Yeah, okay a typical guy answer so you don't have to engage. Yeah, I can see that You know, that's like a guy response. It doesn't really engage in conversation. I could see that I could see where you're coming from. Yeah Totally man How easy is would it be to hear Well, you know what ray? I think you know, you're sitting working on the van you and tom And you know the neighbor walks by and hears you and tom talking about heaven or something because you know, I think i'm good enough I think i'm a good person. Oh, yeah. Yeah, of course peter. You're a good person. Yeah. Yeah, sure How quickly we gloss over these moments of absolute truth you have the opportunity to shine? a very Clear light into the lives and your relationships with your friends Do me a favor take your connection card out we looked at this earlier in the service pastor jack introduced you to it Most important tool that we have because this is your way to talk to me to respond to me Let me know what's going on in your life Please take a look at the front make sure your name and information is on it Oh and somebody asked if you need to update your content information, you know, there's a bubble for it, right right there There's a little square it says change your contact information So do me a favor if you have an update to your contact information, which reminds me diane moberg For some reason I did not type your new home address into the church database correctly Would you mind writing it out for me so that I can correct my error? I went to send you a birthday card or I more rightly judy went to send you a birthday card and asked me where your Address was and I looked it up and realized I jacked up the data entry and so We couldn't send you one because I didn't know where it was So that's my plug for please make sure your contact information is up to date Take a look at the back of the connection card Every week at c3. I want you to take a next step this week. I will question my understanding of salvation I really really really want you to go over these lies again this week and question how vulnerable you would be To giving in to agreeing with one of them And if you're not vulnerable to giving into it are you ready to defend the opposite of it Judy if someone came up to you and said, you know, I really do believe everyone's going to go to heaven. Can you defend? Disagreeing with them without attacking them dan There's totally a difference between attacking someone for what they believe and defending something that is different from what they believe I will defend my beliefs. I don't have any reason to attack yours Second this week I will discuss salvation with something someone that I know This is a great topic to get into talking with someone about the true nature of what it means to be forgiven Because syphilis if we're all in the same boat if we're all sinners anyway Then it's not a measurement of who is more or less sinful. It's only a measurement of who has been forgiven and who hasn't been Your third next step is when we're keeping all series long I would like help in building my doctrinal foundation If you're not sure what pillars you can stand on and how to know that you know what you believe and how to be able To defend those beliefs Gently and respectfully with other people and you want to have that kind of conversation I'm trying to get a group of people together who would be interested and we'll do a little class and we'll talk about some of These issues in depth and you guys can hammer me with questions and i'll tell you how I would respond I don't give in to people when they try to get me to back down from my biblical beliefs I don't insult people either. I don't offend them intentionally If you're offended because I believe differently than you then just be offended Because you'll be offended at the atheist who believes differently than you and the buddhist who believes differently than you But if you're offended because I won't give in to your beliefs, then that's your arrogance not my fault And then you can see there this week. I will memorize mark chapter 16 verse 16 G Under that we have send me info about I can't do an entire message on why jesus is the only way to salvation and ask the simple question Have you been living one of these lies? Have you been skating through life? With the idea that you know, you're just going to get into heaven because everybody does You're going to get into heaven because you're good enough That there's maybe it's some other belief system or some other god or prophet that you can follow that'll get you to heaven Because if you've been living with any one of those lies, then I have to be the bearer of bad news. You're wrong That's what the whole point of this message was Jesus is the only way to be saved So if you're here this morning and you want to admit that yes, you know what? I kind of have been living one of those lies just between you and god. That's fine And but if you would like to change that do me a favor and fill in the bubble that says beginning life with jesus I'm not going to bring you up here. I'm not going to embarrass you But I would like to have a conversation with you help you get your foot in the right direction Of walking with jesus day by day Rededicating my life is very similar. That's you know what? I did make a decision to believe in jesus at some point in my life's past church camp another church Some radio program a televangelist at my house, whatever But you're not really living it out not really walking out that faith that you kind of chose to have back then That's rededicating my life and then how to grow spiritually we have a super awesome discipleship plan at c3. Give me 20 30 minutes of your time and I can help you build a strategic prescription. That's just for you of how to grow spiritually You can also see there. We got a couple at the very bottom. There's there's um, Some service teams on the right hand side. We got the upcoming events the book club melanie finished the book She said it was a little bit of a difficult read, but it should be a really good conversation So if you want to get in the book club, she hasn't told me when the lunch is yet, so It tells me it's probably not on the calendar. So get the book Mr and mrs The shooting is on for this coming saturday. I was trying to get it pushed further back into the month But it's just not it's going to be this saturday at 10 o'clock. We're meeting at stacy's house stacy is actually doug and glennan's son and he has Graciously offered the opportunity to let us use his land out there to go shoot some guns So i'll say this if you own a firearm and you want to bring it you are welcome Um, if you do not own a firearm like me and you'd be willing to purchase some ammunition For someone else's firearm so you can have some fun. That's fine, too But I need to know those firearms who are coming so I can tell you what caliber So if you're interested in purchasing ammunition Do me a favor put it somewhere on your card and I can tell you what caliber or you could just give some money to The church and we can buy a block of it somewhere. I know we have enough responsible firearm owners We can find a place to do that. So that'll be should be fun The identify class is next sunday if you do not know what your spiritual gifts are I really want you to come if you are already a member of c3 You've either gone through the discover class or the membership classes that preceded that if you are a member of the church I want you to know what your spiritual gifts are because the more you understand I think jack said it really great god built you the way he built you for a reason The more you understand about the way god made you the more you can start to see the things that god has for you And then ultimately young adults If you like eating burgers and losing a pool, then come on and join us I'm gonna go out with terry the week before and get some lessons real quick and get my game up But i'll say this we're going out shooting shoot. I almost said shooting burgers and eating pool the other way around We're gonna eat hamburgers and we're going to play billiards So if you are 18 to 30 and you are interested in doing those or if you have I mean have a friend You do not have to go to our church to be involved in our young adult group That is not a requirement for us. I don't mind if people have friends You all just want to come and hang or whatever the whole point is to get people together and establish relationships So don't think that they have to go to just our church adults if you have a son a daughter a grandson granddaughter niece nephew Neighbor co-worker whoever I know maddie came to the Pitch perfect night, right? Great. So jackie has a friend from work that came and they went and watched pitch perfect That is totally acceptable. Please chalk it up watch my instagram or or the social media this week I made a little advertising graphic for it. You could sign up online. That sounds great so This is normally the part where I get to say Thank you very much. I'm done and pastor jack gets to come up and talk but he's teaching Melanie's kids class so