This morning we are going to be continuing the encountering Jesus series. This has been one that's really sort of fun to develop Dustin. I really like personal pictures of Jesus. Jesus was on earth for 33 years but only three years of real ministry and I love getting into these stories and seeing all the little things that he did and that was really the Genesis point behind encountering Jesus. Now every single week during this series I want you to focus on a key thought and the key thought for this series is there is nothing more life changing than a personal encounter with the Savior. That is the key thought behind this series. That is what I really, if Dan there's only one thing that you can take away from this entire series, that's the sentence that I want you to remember. Is there is nothing more life changing than an encounter with the Savior. And this morning we are going to take a look at a man who was absolutely bound by sin. He had some serious spiritual problems in his life and yet with a single encounter with the Savior everything changed. So I know that most of you have your Bibles this morning. Do me a favor and turn to the Gospel of Mark. Mark is the second book in the New Testament or if you're digital this morning just click on the little button that says M-A-R-K and that's probably the Gospel of Mark. Matthew Mark. So Gospel of Mark and we're going to look in chapter 5. Mark chapter 5 and we're going to read the first 20 verses of Mark chapter 5. The story that we're going to read, did it work? Awesome. You guys going to come out? Oh yeah, come on out man. Let's just be, for those of you who don't know, Jackie has some super cool way of controlling the screen from that iPad in her lap. So she doesn't, so she doesn't, what's that? Oh yeah, just hit me a couple more. I got a couple, yeah for those of you who didn't already see we definitely got some great war wounds from the paintball trip yesterday. I think we're awarding Dan the gold medal for his softball sized bruise on his hip. So if you're really good friends with Dan you could pay him a couple bucks and he'll probably show it to you. So Dan I expect a bigger offering next week. No, we are talking about nothing more life changing than a personal encounter with the Savior. Let's look at Mark chapter 5 and let's take a look at the first 20 verses. And I'll have it for you here on the screen in the New Living Translation which is my favorite translation. So they arrived at the other side of the lake in the region of the garrisons. When Jesus climbed out of the boat, a man possessed by an evil spirit came out from a cemetery to meet him. This man lived among the burial caves and could no longer be restrained even with a chain. When he was put into chains and shackles as he often was, he snapped the chains from his wrist and smashed the shackles. No one was strong enough to subdue him. Day and night he wandered among the burial caves and in the hills howling and cutting himself with sharp stones. When Jesus was still some distance away, the man saw him, ran to meet him, and bowed low before him. With a shriek he screamed, why are you interfering with me? Jesus, son of the most high God, in the name of God I beg you don't torture me. For Jesus had already said to the spirit, come out of that man you evil spirit. Then Jesus demanded, what is your name? And he replied, my name is Legion, because there are many of us inside this man. Then the evil spirits begged again and again, begged him again and again not to send them to some distant place. There happened to be a large herd of pigs feeding on the hillside nearby. Send us to the pigs, the spirit begged, let us enter them. So Jesus gave them permission. The evil spirits came out of the man and entered the pigs, and the entire herd of 2,000 pigs plunged down the steep hillside into the lake and drowned in the water. The herdsmen fled to the nearby town and the surrounding countryside, spreading the news as they ran. People rushed out to see what had happened. A crowd soon gathered around Jesus, and when they saw the man who had been possessed by a legion of demons, he was sitting there fully clothed and perfectly sane, they were all afraid. Then those who had seen what had happened told the others about the demon possessed man and the pigs, and the crowd began pleading with him, Jesus pleading with him, Jesus to go away and leave them alone. As Jesus was getting into the boat, the man who had been demon possessed begged him to go with him. But Jesus said, no, go home to your family and tell them everything the Lord has done for you and how merciful he has been. So the man started off to visit the 10 towns of that region and began to proclaim the great things Jesus had done for him, and everyone was amazed at what he told them. You may be more familiar with this story if you're an old school churchgoer, he's called the Gadarene Demoniac, because the region as we saw in the first verse, the region is that of the garrisons. I love this story, I love this story for several reasons, but we get a lot of insight, Terry, about deliverance ministry and dealing with the demonic, we get a lot of insight of how powerful Jesus was not only in his resurrected form, but in his earthly bodily form. But the character that I want us to focus on, Eric, this morning is the dude himself. Now, he is not named, he's only ever referred to as demon possessed dude, or Gadarene Demoniac, or we can call him G for short, but he has no name. But he is the character that I want you to really sort of try to identify with this morning, because this man had a life changing encounter with the Savior. So do me a favor, take a look at the back of your bulletin, it's got some blanks on it, I'm going to ask you to fill out and follow along, all in one word. We just made, Julia, we just made up a totally brand new word. I'm going to ask you to follow along with me, follow, follow along with me, in the back of your bulletin. I should probably not do that now that we actually have somebody from England, because my British accent sounds really bad, I'm someone who's lived there. All right, do me a favor, take a look at the back of your bulletin, let's get into this. Your first blank this morning is this, spiritual problems often have physical results. Spiritual problems often have physical results. And then like we always do, I want to go ahead and go back to the beginning of this passage and just sort of break it down by section. See, who needs a table when you just have multiple music stands? All right, so let's take a look at the opening couple of verses here. This is just verses one through five of Mark chapter five. So they arrived on the other side of the lake in the region of the garrisons. When Jesus climbed out of the boat, a man possessed by an evil spirit came out from a cemetery to meet him. Now stop there for a second. I don't want you to get distracted Diane with this word possessed. So let's deal with that truth first, and then we can, you know, Judy, we'll put it to the side because it's not really the focus of the story, but it is a very important detail. There's a lot of discussion in Christian circles about the difference between demonic possession, demonic oppression. I mean, demonic repression. There are so many different things. So this is what I want to understand, Dan. No matter which one of these you cut up, whether it's possessed, oppressed, repressed, cold pressed, whatever it is, there's one simple fact. Demonic influence bearing down on human life. I don't want to get too distracted by the, well, can a demon do this or can a human do that? Like that's really not the point of the story. The demon is a very large character in the story. And as we'll see, he has some lines in a minute, but I just want you to understand, forget everything you've seen in the movies because most of it is highly exaggerated. But the truth that I want you to understand is this. A few months ago, Diane, we talked about angels among us and we talked about angels. And before man was created, God had his angels in heaven and a group of them tried to overthrow God and they were cast out of heaven. And where did God cast the fallen angels? To earth. In case you did not know this, Dustin, nobody lives in hell. Hell currently is vacant. There's a nice big for rent sign and it's been there for a long time because when the devil and his angels were cast out of heaven, they were cast here to this planet, to earth, to wander this world until judgment day. So all those fun cartoons you've seen, Debbie, where Satan is like sitting on this big throne of skulls and there's like all this like Alice Cooper style fire around him and he like gives orders from hell and he sends telegrams to earth. None of that is true. The devil and all of the fallen angels fell here to earth and they have remained here on earth, Terry, until judgment day. So we live in a spiritual world whether we like to deal with it or not. Now you can ostrich yourself, you know, stick your head in the sand, pretend they don't exist, pretend they're not real, but Dan, that's not going to change the reality of their abilities. And this story is one of the best stories to give an example of demonic activity interacting with human life. Now we will get into the levels of that in a little bit, but I want you to not get too distracted by the idea that we're talking about demon possession because ultimately we're talking about here is freedom. You know, Angie, when we get to the end of the story, freedom happens and that's, you know, that's the fun part. We get to Jesus brings him freedom. But I do want to give you the reality, demonic influence does have the ability to bear down on human life and can have some pretty interesting powers as we get into it. So there's a second thing. This man lived among burial caves and could no longer be restrained. In case you don't understand the time period, the common practice of the day, just like I mean, where did we bury Jesus in a tomb, right? In a cave. The common practice of the day was to bury the body in the cave, prepare it, wrap it, bury it, then give it some time. And then when there were only bones left, when the rest of the flesh had kind of rotted away, they would collect the bones back up, put it in a box, and then that box would go to the family crypt. So your family might only have one actual tomb because the tomb is the place of death. That's where the dead body goes first. Jesus's body was placed in a tomb. But if any of you know history, they found the box that they thought contained the bones of the apostle John and it was in a room full of boxes that had the same insignia on it. It was a family crypt. But your bones were transferred to the crypt, Julie, after all the meaty part of your body is gone. Gross, gross. So what I want you to understand is the tomb, just like for Jesus, is the place of death. The tomb is where you put the dead body. The tomb is where the body rots. The tomb is where all the icky, stinky, smelly death. That's where this takes place. And that is where this man is living. He resides not with life, but with death. He was so crazy that the townspeople tried to restrain him. Look at this. This is whenever he was put into chains and shackles. Now, he did not put himself into those chains and shackles. This is not one of those willingly handcuff yourself scenarios. This is a man who is so wild, so unruly, so crazy that their only alternative, Tim, was to chain him up like an animal near a bunch of dead people who he can't bother. And that is the state of this man when the story opens. Whenever he was put into the chains and shackles, as he often was, he snapped the chains from his wrist and smashed the shackles. No one was strong enough to subdue him. He wandered around the burial caves and hills, cutting himself with sharp stones. Now, Ginny, let's be honest here. This does not sound like the vacation that anybody wants to sign up for. Tracy, I have an opening, 40 hours a week plus benefits, chained next to dead bodies, cutting yourself with stones. Whose first? I don't think this man's situation is desirable in any shape, but that is his opening to his story. The demonic influence in his life is so powerful, so strong, that it has some very physical ramifications. His spiritual problem created some physical problems. And what I'd like you to understand this morning is that is the same for you today, Jackie, whether we recognize it or not. The truth of the matter is you probably have some spiritual issues in your life. They may be big, they may be small, they may be different from yours, they may be different from Jackie's or Melanie's or Eric's or whatever, but you have spiritual problems this morning. And like it or not, just like this man, your spiritual problems are creating physical problems in your life. If you do not believe that, then I love you, you are either ignorant or arrogant. Take your pick. You are either ignorant of the reality of the situation, or you are arrogant enough to believe that it doesn't apply to you. So let's start out this morning understanding that our spiritual problems will create physical problems. Here's your second blank this morning. Demonic influence can vary in degree. Can vary. Demonic influence can vary in degree. Now let's take a look at verses 6 through 9. What happened? When Jesus was still some distance away, the man saw him, ran to meet him, and bowed low before him, and with a shriek he screamed, Why are you interfering with me, Jesus, son of the most high God? Stop. Terry, rhetorical question here. How does the man know Jesus is the son of the most high God? That is exactly right. Just look at it for a second. Jesus is just setting foot on the shoreline. He's just some random Jew getting out of a boat. And there could have been other boats in the shoreline. This was a common practice to just take the boat across the lake, you know. So Jesus is just some other random Jew landing on the shoreline. But this one man, the one man who's crazy, the one man who cuts himself, the one man who lives in the cave with the dead things, is the one man who is the one man who is the one man who runs to the feet of Jesus. And this is what he says. Why are you interfering with me? Now, I love the NLT, but every now and then it gets it a little bit off. The literal translation here should be, What business do we have together? And then if you were to look that up, Jackie, what you would find is that's an Old Testament greeting between two rival kings. And it's a greeting with hostility in it. Like to put it in a modern day translation, Yo, what you doing here? But with attitude. Like subtext, attitude. Why you here, son? Attitude. That's really what this greeting is. This is a greeting of hostility. Why are you interfering with me? So think about it this way, Dan. Why are you interfering with me? Jesus, son of the Most High God. Like this is a hostile greeting. But what I need you to see there is exactly what Terry got it dead right. How does this man who's the random guy living with the dead things, cutting his arms, walk up to the Savior of the world and know who he is? Because it's not the man that's having this conversation at first. The level of demonic activity in this man's life had risen to the level, Dustin, the demon is speaking through the man's human vocal cords like a puppet. The level of demonic activity in this man's life is so strong and is so powerful that it is literally able to control him and now have a conversation with the Savior using this man like a meaty puppet. Just soak in that truth for a minute. Because their power on earth has not changed. But this is why I don't want to focus on the possession, but there are a few things here that we have to talk about so that I don't feel like I'm taking you down a weird lane. Dan, can this happen today? Yes, it still can. Can it happen to a Christian? No, it cannot. Why? Now here's the why. Original sin back in Genesis, right? Adam and Eve sin entered the world before Jesus came to the world. Before original sin, who was the head of all creation? Adam. Human. Human Adam was the head of all creation. Then when Adam sinned, he handed the authority, dominion of the earth to Satan. But whose power is still greater than Satan's? God, Jesus. At the moment that a Christian receives salvation, they are no longer... yes, we live in a sinful world, we still struggle with sin, but Dustin, if all of your sins have been forgiven, how is there still enough sin left to totally possess you? There's something that's very, very important that I have to teach you. Christians cannot be fully 100 possessed by the devil because our heart has already been given and owned by God. Now does that mean that we don't deal with demonic influence? No, we all still struggle with temptation. The bodies that we live in are sinful, we still live in a sinful world, we still live in a world where the devil and all of his angels are active. So Eric, am I saying that you are immune to sin? No, I am not. Am I saying that you are immune to be 100% possessed by the devil? Yes, I am. Have I made that point very clear? Because this is one of those things that gets a little sticky if you don't really speak the truth. So here's the truth. If you are a Christian, you cannot be 100% possessed by the devil. Does that mean he still doesn't have the right to attack you, tempt you, or try to get you to sin? No, it doesn't. He's still the head of this earth, but your soul is no longer his to control. Does that make sense to everybody? All right. I just need to make sure that was very clear. So in this instance, now here's the other thing. Dustin, is there any way possible for this man to be a Christian? No, Jesus hadn't died yet. This is Jesus' earthly ministry. You could believe in Jesus, but the sacrifice that bought all of our sins, forgiveness, hasn't been made yet. Now also, we have a very good likelihood that this man is a Gentile, not a Jew, because he lives in a region where pigs are not allowed to eat. He lives in a region where pigs feed openly in the grass instead of herd, right? Well, pigs are an unclean animal to a Jew. They can't touch it. They can't be around it. They can't farm it. They can't even really have any kind of contact with it. So for there to be an entire herd of swine, we are most likely in the Gentile region of the Decapolis. When we get to the end, we'll talk about the Ten Cities. Ten Cities is an English translation of the Greek word, Decapolis, meaning Deca, ten, polis, city, ten cities. This man is most likely a Gentile, fully controlled by the devil. And here's what happens. Why are you interfering with me, son of the Most High God? What I think is amazing is the unclean evil demon still must recognize the authority of God, still recognizes his position as a created being under the sovereignty of God. Then Jesus demanded, what is your name? And he replied, my name is Legion. Now, this is not an accidental term. The word Legion is used on purpose. Judy, the word Legion refers to the number of demons that could possibly be in this man. So how many are we talking? Since there's a small group, does anybody happen to know what the maximum number of soldiers is that can serve in a single Roman Legion? Six thousand. The maximum strength of a Roman Legion at the time of this conversation was six thousand men. So by using the term Legion, he's not necessarily saying there's all six thousand demons, but we'll just call it a lot a lot. We'll just call it a bunch. This man is possessed by more than one demon. He is controlled by a host of them, a group of them, or to use a term from that day, a legion of them. And then he admits it because there are many of us inside this man. Now, that seems a little odd. If you don't come from a charismatic background and you don't have a lot of conversation about demons, I will be happy to go more in depth on the topic with you. We did a great series a little while back on spiritual warfare. I'm not trying to scare you. I'm just trying to give you the truth of what we're going on here. You are a human being, so your physical body is physical, but if you live in a spiritual world, the spiritual can affect the physical, and that's what's going on with this man. Let's take a look at your third blank here. Jesus brings freedom from bondage. Here's where the story starts to take a turn for the hallmark ending. Jesus brings freedom from bondage. As much as the demon is a character in this story, Tim, we should never make the enemy the star of the story because the devil is never the star of the story. He's always the antagonist. Jesus is always the protagonist. But let's take a look at what happens here, verses 10 through 13. Then the evil spirits begged him again and again not to send him to some distant place. The real Greek translation there is not to send them to the abyss. Now, many of you may remember from the Angels Among Us series that there are several places in creation where fallen angels are. There are some that are here on earth that God sent some into the abyss, which is another translation of Tartarus, the Greek and Jewish version of the underworld, and there are some that are chained below the two rivers. We assume that it's the Tigris and the Euphrates, but you don't know for sure that that's what it is. God took a certain group of fallen angels, and Eric, here's the basics. They did something so grotesque, so horrible to God that rather than give them the freedom to roam on earth, he took this group of angels and he threw them in solitary. And there they sit until judgment day when they get to go to hell. Kind of like out of the frying pan into the fire. This group of angels, whatever they did was so horrible, so vile to God himself that he scooped them up and he locked them in the brig forever until judgment day. When they get out of jail is when they get to go to hell. How great of a lunch break is that? So these demons are subject to the power of God, and Diane, so much so, they're not just subject to him in the sense of come out of this man or come out of this woman. They're also subject to him in the sense of Jesus can give them a directive of where to go. Julie, it's not just come out of this man. Come out of this man and go get me a burger. There's actually two commands there. Jesus fully has the power to A, exercise the demon from the human body, but he also contains the power as the mighty God to command them to go to a singular location because God has already done that. God has already taken a group of these angels and he's going to take them to hell. God has already taken a group of these fallen angels and locked them up, and they know that. Angels have very good memories. They remember everything that we did. That's why they're brilliant at attempting us to sin. So the angels know, Eric, Jesus can at a whim command them to a location. So now they start, Tracy, they're making a deal. Okay, okay, we got to really play it cool with this guy. He's the son of God. He could send us down to Tartarus. Let's come up with an option. Let's ask. You know what, don't send me to hell. How about just send me to Brooklyn? How about that? For somebody who's a Southerner, that would be hell enough. So let's give the Savior an option. Maybe he'll let us go where we ask to go. And that's what they do. So then they said send us into the pigs. Now, interesting that they chose an unclean spirit, chooses an unclean animal. To a Jew, nobody gives a crap about demon-possessed pigs. I can't touch them, I can't eat them. No bacon, that's so sad. I can't touch them, I can't eat them, I can't do anything. But the unclean spirit chooses an unclean vessel, the pig, the unclean animal. And Jesus gives permission, and then all of a sudden, all 2,000 pigs plunged down the steep hillside. Something very interesting that I got into studying this week that I had never really stopped to consider. But then when I have to, you know, all of a sudden when I have to teach this passage, I better kind of look at all the angles. Why did the steeps, why did the steeps? I almost said why did the steeps fall down the pig side? Why did the pigs fall down the steep hillside? You really have two options here. Option one, which most people will default to. The demons drove the pigs mad like they drove the man mad, and the pigs ran themselves off the cliff. That's a very viable option. Option two, Jesus gave them permission to go into the pigs, and then God sovereignly caused all the pigs to go off the hillside. Now why does that sound like a good option? Eric, think with me for a second. What's going to happen at Judgment Day to all the fallen angels? What's going to happen? They're going to get cast. They're going to get judged, but they're already going to be judged as guilty because Jesus did not die to save angels. So they're going to get cast down into the lake of fire. It is very possible that Jesus gave them permission to go into this unclean thing, and then God sovereignly caused all these pigs to fall off the hillside as the kind of precursor or foreshadowing of their ultimate judgment, which is they would be cast down into a lake of fire, into hell. Almost a pre-symbolism of, okay fine, I'll give you what you want, but you're not getting out of this judgment. This judgment is still coming. Now I'll give you both options. You can choose to believe either one because, honestly, scripture doesn't say exactly why, but I can tell you this. Jesus allowed or caused, either one, 2,000 pigs to die to grant freedom for one man. In Jesus' perspective, Jesus allows 2,000 pigs to die to save one man. Judy, Jesus' love for humankind is clearly exemplified here. He pulls all of these demons out of this man, throws them over to the herd. Now if the story stopped right there, we still get to celebrate the freedom of the man. He's still the star of this story interacting with Jesus. So don't get too distracted. Jesus had the power to command them to go to a single location. They asked for it, they gave it, and then all of a sudden we see this beautiful picture, this precursor of what's going to happen to the demons when we get there. Your fourth blank, freedom from bondage is noticeable. So Jackie, give it to me, verses 14 and 15. The herdsmen fled to the nearby town. Sure, Terry, if you're in charge of my 2,000 pigs on the hillside and you come home with not a one, you know somebody's going to be answering for something. So they run, they run, they run to the hillside, they find news. What I think is interesting is bad news travels fast. Everybody knows this. The blogosphere, I mean you can just follow some news channel on Twitter and every like 5 to 10 minutes, like the world is ending next to your backyard. Like all of a sudden, nuclear test site in Cape Coral. I mean, have no idea what's going to happen. Bad news travels super fast. So these guys are running through the hillside, they're spreading. But because of that, all of these people rushed to see what had happened. Now, the crowd gathered around Jesus for one of two reasons, and there could be a little bit of a combination of both. Tracy, reason number one, they had to see the healing of the crazy man. Everybody knows about crazy, right? It doesn't matter if it's your family. Don't elbow anybody right now. If it's your family, everybody has that one crazy aunt or that one crazy uncle that everyone jokes about until they come over at Thanksgiving. And then all of a sudden you have to like look at each other on the sly because you're like, did he seriously just put mayonnaise on the turkey? You know, everybody, you know crazy. All of you just thought of someone in your family who you think is crazy by the way. Call them today and apologize. Everybody knows the crazy man. Everybody knows the crazy person in your town, right? Whether it's the crazy bag lady on the corner or it's the crazy person who packs your groceries at Publix or maybe you have a pizza delivery guy that's just a little off. You know, everybody knows crazy. This town knew about the town crazy. This town knew about the guy so much so they shackled him. Don't forget about the beginning of it. Dustin, somebody went there to chain this guy up. So not only did they know about crazy, he was so crazy and possibly dangerous that they took steps to ensure their own safety by chaining him up with dead bodies. And now all of a sudden you're going to tell me that this guy is totally cool. I've got to, like this is one of these, I've got to see this from my own eyes. So reason number one, they wanted to come see the healing of the man. Reason number two, they want to make sure what happened to the pigs really happened. Because if I'm the pig owner, somebody has to answer for all my property and they just got drowned in the bottom of the hill. So either way, they're coming to see Jesus. Doesn't really matter if you choose option A or option B, Jesus is still the right answer. Jackie, if they come to see the man who was healed, he's right there with Jesus. If they come to find an answer for why all the pigs just ran off the hillside, the answer is still Jesus. What I think is great is whether they came for good reasons or bad reasons, they're still at the foot of Jesus. Then look at what happens. The crowd soon gathered around Jesus and they saw the man who had been possessed by the legion of demons. He was sitting there fully clothed, perfectly sane, and they were all afraid. Now you don't have to go back to the description, but remember in your head that picture that you had when I first was reading about this man. He's living among the tombs. He howls like a beast. He cuts himself with stones. And now look at somebody fully clothed, perfectly sane sitting there having brunch. If that was the same person, wouldn't you kind of wonder what's going on? Glenna, wouldn't you wonder what power is at work that could take the town crazy and turn him into the town swagger? Now I think it's interesting that they decided to respond in fear, but this is what I can tell you. If you are struggling with a spiritual struggle in your life and it gets radically transformed, it's noticeable. The reverse of that is also true. If you are struggling with a spiritual struggle in your life and it's not noticeable, don't think the fight is over. Don't relax too quickly, because that's exactly what the enemy will do. Diane, you'll think you've won. You'll think you're over it. Oh, I'm good. It's totally noticeable. Wham! Smack you back in the face. The transformation in this man's attitude and the transformation in this man's outer appearance. We haven't even heard him say anything yet. All the lines came from the demon, so we haven't even heard this man say anything yet. But just his outer appearance was so drastically changed after this one encounter with Jesus that it was noticeable to other people. Here, this one's going to sting, so just get ready for this. If your family cannot tell the difference in your life pre-Jesus and post-Jesus, he hasn't made a whole lot of difference in your life. There should be a noticeable change when bondage is released. When freedom is interjected into your life, what do we learn? John chapter 8 verse 36. It's not going to be up there. If the sun sets you free, you are free indeed. Freedom should be noticeable. Freedom from bondage, freedom from pain, freedom from depression, freedom from cancer. It should be noticeable. When God doesn't work in your life, don't cover it up. Don't be like, oh, maybe that was just that extra orange tablet I took two days ago. When God does something in your life, it should be big, it should be noticeable, and we should be proud of it, Jenny. We should be able to share it with somebody else. Now here's your last blank. Freedom brings restoration of relationship. And here's my favorite part of the story. 16 to 20. Those who had seen what had happened told the others about the demon-possessed man and the pigs. Then the crowd began pleading with Jesus to go away and leave them alone. As they were getting into the boat, the man who had been possessed begged to go with him. But Jesus said, no. Go home to your family. Now, a good friend of mine who is also pastoring a local church here, he and I are actually doing this series in tandem. So he's teaching this same message at his church this morning. And we've been building these messages together for the last couple of weeks. We got into a nice little tangent researching that word family. Because see, I use the NLT, and I love the fact that the word family was there. Well, he uses a different translation, and it said friends. And I said, well, we need to figure out what's going on here. They both can't be right. Yes, you can be friends with those who are family, and yes, you could probably have family that you're not very friendly with, but what is the real meaning of this word? So we both were sitting at the table. We both got out all kinds of tools, and we're digging through it. And here's what it is. It's really more of the word in Greek here is really more of, if I were to say, go to your people. Right? That could be the connotation of your actual wife, your biological nuclear family, but your people could also include your voice. Your people could also include those people that you're close to. So the word here really would be, Dustin, go back to your people. So then we look that word up, and we just keep digging until we can get all the way to the bottom. And there is, I would say 70% of the time that this word your people is used, and that's familial references. Your family, your wife, your cousin, your this, your that. So I found it really interesting that the NLT got a connotation right that a more hypertextual translation did not get right. But think about this for a second. If you're the wife, maybe the children of the crazy man, what was this day like for you? All of a sudden, your uncle, your father, your grandfather, your brother, your cousin, is the crazy guy. Everybody knows the village crazy. Somebody has even gone out there to chain and shackle him. Angelina, put yourself in the wife of this man's shoes. Eric gets a bug through the brain and goes crazy. So crazy that he chooses to live among dead rotting bodies cutting his arms with stones and just howling like an animal. Fully sober, doing all of those things. And then one day, he returns to the man that you married. Can you imagine the emotion what that felt like, Dan? That restoration where again, he was living with death, he goes back home to life. He was living in isolation, he goes back home to relationship. The final stage of this man's life is the restoration of all that he had before all of this demonic influence began isolating him and making him the crazy guy. He didn't start out life the crazy guy. He wasn't born in shackles in a tomb, howling like an animal and cutting himself with stones. That demonic influence built up over time. You ever heard the question, how do you boil a frog? Have you ever heard that before? Have you ever heard that before? How do you boil a frog? Well, if you've ever eaten frog legs, right? Have you ever tried to actually put a frog in boiling water? Well, I'm glad that none of you like to torture animals. Thank you. But you can't. If you were to try to take a live frog, a whole frog, and put it into boiling water, it's just going to jump. Like it jumps on water, right? It's just going to open up its little web toes and go, woo! And then put it in cold or lukewarm water and then turn up the heat, it'll boil to death. Because it'll never come out. It'll never, the changes are so small and so gradual and so little by little by little. Yeah. That's exactly how you do it. And I'll be honest, the enemy does it to every one of us all the time. It's okay, Jackie, just make this one small compromise. Stole my word there, yummers. Make this one small compromise. Dustin, just have this one small lapse in integrity. Judy, let's just falsify this one business document. It's just small. No one will know. No one will notice. And before you know it, compromise after compromise after compromise, and the person you are here is nothing like the person you started out with over here. That is the story of this story. That is the story of this man's life. And after his one encounter with Jesus, Eric, he gets everything back. Jesus will not, he wants to go and just travel with Jesus. I would too, if my life was that radically bound by sin and people had, just like the woman we looked at last week, people tried to fix their own problems their own way. The woman with the issue of blood, she tried to hire all the doctors she could and could do nothing. But in a moment, in a personal encounter with the Savior, all of that is broken off. Sin breaks relationship and causes distance and depression, but freedom restores the broken and brings new life. Dan, the man, gets to go home, hug his wife, pick up his little boy or his little girl, honey, I'm not crazy anymore. That kind of restorative power is what comes out of a singular relationship with Jesus. So my question that I have for you today, where are you still bound by sin? Where are you still struggling? Now I should make a clear distinction here. There is a difference between being fully demonically possessed and battling with temptation. We are human beings, we will battle with temptation our whole lives. Because Tracy, that is the nature of us being human. You know, oh, it's just my nature. Well, it is your human nature. But Tracy, to choose sin is not your spiritual nature. It is not the nature that Jesus died to give you. You know, the scripture says when you accept Jesus, you become a new creation. Tim, that word creation literally means a new creature. You were once just physical, you are now a physical nature and a spiritual nature. Where is your spiritual nature today in your life? Where is the struggle that you're battling through? If you don't think you have any problems, just think pride. And we'll start with that one. Every one of us has that next battle we're trying to fight in our spiritual walk. Where is that today? And my question is, if you will treat Jesus the way this man treated Jesus, I want to go all the way back to the beginning. Jackie, you don't have to put this up. Just leave it there. But I want you to see what happened. When Jesus was still some distance away, the man saw him, ran to meet him, and bowed low to him. That's what I want to ask you this morning. If you can clearly identify that you have a spiritual problem, what are you doing about that? Are you just kind of putting it in your back pocket and going, you know what, Jackie, I'm going to work on this at some point. I'll get better at it. It's okay. I'm not going to let anybody in on it because I don't want anybody to think I'm crazy. I don't want anybody to think I'm the crazy guy. You know, I'll just fix it in my own time. Or you can do what this man did while Jesus was still some distance away, ran to him, saw him, ran to him, and bowed low to him, or in essence submitted to him. That's what that bowed low really symbolizes. I submit to your authority. Your spiritual struggles need to be submitted to Jesus. Do me a favor, take a look at the back of your bulletin. Now, some of you may have already noticed the next steps on the back of your connection card do not match the ones in the bulletin. That's because we had some problems printing the bulletins this week. So I apologize. The ones on the card are the correct ones. So after you pick one on your card, I'm going to need you to pencil it into your bulletin because we did not get those right. We printed things out of order this week. So let's take a look at our next steps. This week, I will take stock of my spiritual problems. I told you, what is your spiritual problem this week? What is hindering your relationship with God? Where are you struggling? What can be improved? Number two, this week I will seek freedom from Jesus in a certain area of my life. Maybe there is a singular area that you have already identified I need to fix, and I'm going to run to Jesus this week. I'm going to submit that area of my life to him. Maybe it's something physical, maybe it's something mental, maybe it's something emotional. This is really personal to you. But if you have an area of your life that you know you are struggling in, why are you not running to him and submitting it to him? And finally, third, this week, I will share my encounter with Jesus with someone else. If you have already had one of these life changing radical encounters, you've got to share that story, man. Just like every single person we've looked at this week, your story can become encouragement to someone else. But if you keep your story to yourself, you are robbing the rest of the body of Christ, the benefit of what God has done in your life. You can see there our memory verse for this week is Mark chapter 5 verse 9. The young adults pizza party and the discover class, please, please, please, if you've been coming for a while and you have not already become a member of C3, please RSVP for the discover class. Let me buy you lunch. And here, I'll even give you the preview. This is what the class is about. It's about three things. It's about the history of our church, where we came from, why we're a non-denominational church, how we got to where we are today. It's about where we are today, the kind of church we are, and it's about the kind of church that we want to be. And after I tell you those three things, and a little bit of backstory about me in case you don't know my history, you get the opportunity to choose whether you want to be a member of our church or not. Dustin, membership of C3 is never required. It's suggested. And I'll give you all the information to make a healthy choice. But at the end of the day, it has to be your choice. But don't make the choice to be a member or not be a member because of the kind of music or because of the kind of preaching or because of the color of the chairs. Make that choice after you are well informed about where we came from, who we are, and where we're going. Because I believe that our church is going to make some radical difference in our community. And I hope that once you hear about all of that, that you would consider being a part of it. Do me a favor, if you have not already signed up, it's going to be Sunday the 26th, which I believe is next Sunday, right? So it's next Sunday. I need to have an idea of how many people I'm buying lunch for. So if you are not currently a member, please sign up for the Discover class. Just because you come to the class does not mean you have to be a member of the church. Can I make that any plainer? But I want you to come and at least hear about who we are and what we're doing and decide for yourself whether you want to be a part of our church family.