This morning we are going to talk about the tribulation now like every message here at c3 We begin with a key thought this key thought really links everything for the series together So here let me give you the key thought on the screen key thought is the end of the world is a series of events Terry the end of the world is a series of events It's not like what you see in the movies where you have that that hero character who's Battling the forces of evil with some magical relic item and it all comes down to the last ten seconds Before he wins and the day is saved in the world's not destroyed That is not what the Bible says the end of the world according to the Bible Fred is going to play out over a very long Period of time now last week. We talked about the rapture that happened in a single moment the rapture happened now this week We're going to talk about the tribulation and I've got a couple blanks for you So do me a favor look at the back of your bulletin It should look a lot like this one since we printed them all together if yours does not look like mine Please see me after church. We'll find out where yours came from Just be it honest. All right, let's take a look here. I'm gonna give you your first blank and then we're gonna get into it There's a lot of details. I want to try to explain and I'll try not to bore you with them So let's take a look at the first point this morning All right, actually wait, no, no, no go back. I got to explain something Because I put it in my notes and then just muddled right over it the term the tribulation Glenna the term the tribulation describes a period of time in the future But the that period of time has been called other things throughout Scripture and Dan That's where I want to start this morning. What we call the tribulation is also called the great Tribulation it is also called the time of Jacob's sorrow and it is also called Daniel's 70th week For names, but Dan we're talking about the same thing. I'm talking about a Wednesday It doesn't matter if I say Wednesday in English Spanish French German or Chinese It doesn't change the fact that Wednesday is Wednesday Just because these different terms exist in Scripture for the period of time known as the tribulation Does not change its truth now, let me expound on one of them for a second Sean I said the tribulation is also referred to as Daniel's 70th week that is because Daniel was an Old Testament prophet and he had a vision of the end of the world And in fact, if you want to think about it this way Daniel is the revelation of the Old Testament or Revelation is the Daniel of the New Testament. Both are futuristic apocalyptic books They give us a picture of the end of times Why is it the 70th week because Daniel had a vision from the Lord and in it the Lord described 70 weeks now, what do I mean by week? I mean a set of seven not necessarily week in the context of Seven 24-hour days. I mean week as in a set of seven and a week is just an obvious term for us here in English 70 weeks of years So seven packs of seven years each does that make sense a set of seven years is what Daniel referred to as a week so 70 weeks or 77 years 70 sets of seven years is 490 years you see how the math works out, right? There are 70 sets of these seven years 69 of the prophetic events have already occurred. In fact, they occurred before Jesus's birth The one through 69 of the weeks that Daniel describes have already occurred however, the 70th week the last set of seven the last set of seven years has not occurred yet that Is what we are still waiting for in fact Daniel prophesied the coming of Jesus He prophesied what would happen and here we are We are waiting for the 70th week to begin now that I've explained that here's your first blank this morning The tribulation will restore and draw Israel to Jesus The tribulation will restore and Draw Israel to Jesus if you remember back to the first message that we had We talked about the fact that there were some ground rules that God had set forth for the end time But there were some promises In fact, we call them covenants that God had made with his people Israel that are still outstanding in Nelson If God's Word is true Then it will happen just because it hasn't happened yet does not mean it won't and remember we talked about putting a puzzle Together and Doug whenever you put a puzzle together What's the first thing you do you get those four corner pieces and you start building your framework? Does anybody remember those covenants? Abrahamic covenants Palestinian covenants Davidic covenants and the new covenant and those four covenants together are the outside of our puzzle They begin to bring revelation into view and guess who is the featured group of people in all four of those covenants Israel God's people Israel now all of a sudden we're gonna get back to that Remember the church in Israel are not the same group of people the tribulation will restore and draw Israel to Jesus Let's take a look at Daniel chapter 9 verse 24 Daniel chapter 9 verse 24. This is the Holman Christian Standard Bible 70 weeks we just talked about that are decreed about your people and your holy city stop Dan we're talking Old Testament right when the old test says your people who does it refer to? Israel there is no reason to interpret your people as the Church of Jesus Christ Because at this time when this Miss Diane the church didn't exist Jesus hasn't been born yet So the church does not exist therefore if you go to this scripture and Julie you say oh well the church is the Lord's people You are back reading theology that on a chronology chronological Timetable doesn't occur yet. There is no reason to assume that Daniel was talking about the Church of God Melissa He is talking about national Israel the Lord's people 70 weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city. Where's that? Jerusalem, thank you your holy city refers to Jerusalem another reason Kim why this can't be the church the church doesn't have a holy city We are the Church of Jesus Christ, but we don't have a singular holy city So 70 weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city and here's what these 70 weeks will accomplish to bring the rebellion To an end to put a stop to sin to wipe away iniquity to bring in everlasting righteousness To seal up vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy place Now Judy all of these are about Israel not the Church of Jesus Christ Israel is the prime focus of the tribulation Now how else do I know that Lynette we talked about last week. We're not here anymore The entire Church of Jesus Christ has been raptured from the earth. We don't exist on earth So therefore how would we be in rebellion against God? How would we still be in sin, how would we still be in iniquity? We can't be because Kim we got raptured. Thank Jesus. We're not here for what's about to happen But Israel is remember what Paul said It is only because of Israel's rebellion that we were grafted in but don't think that you're any better The wild olive branch is no better than the natural olive branch because of Israel's disobedience to God Sabina We were offered salvation and that's an awesome gift and I thank God every day for it, but Angelina we never replaced God's people we never replaced National Israel so the tribulation will focus on restoring and drawing Israel to Jesus Here's your second blank this morning. Now. We're gonna get very very specific The tribulation begins with a peace treaty with Israel the tribulation begins with a peace treaty signed with national Israel Everybody got that the tribulation begins with a peace treaty with Israel Now we're gonna go right back to Daniel chapter 9 and look at verse 27 Also here in the Holman Christian Standard Bible He will make a firm covenant with many for one week stop let's break that down who is he He in this verse is the character also known as the Antichrist Now the Antichrist does have several names throughout passage of Scripture here. He's just called he you know It's really interesting Sean the word Antichrist only occurs in the Bible once in 1st. John He's only ever referred to as the Antichrist one time But for some reason that name because of what it really says Fred anti Jesus Christ anti his mission anti his love and times that name has just typified The character of the Antichrist he will make a firm covenant with many meaning as in many Israelites for one week This is why we know Lynette the the 70th week the last set of seven years has not happened yet as The Antichrist is not on the scene now. What does the Bible say about the Antichrist? I'll give you a couple things and I'd be happy to email you some references for all this later Nelson the Antichrist will be the leader of a nation in fact the scripture refers to a League of Nations or a group of nations very similar to a restored Roman Empire and the Antichrist will be in a position of Influence but not total authority. He will not be a dictator when he signs this peace treaty He will be one of a group of world leaders and then throughout the process of the tribulation We'll see that start to shift but here he makes a firm covenant with many but In the middle of the week, so if the week represents seven years how much time before we get to the middle? Three and a half years, correct So in the middle of the week or in three and a half years, he will put a stop to sacrifice and offering now Here's a clue The temple has to be rebuilt and the Jewish sacrificial system is restored before the tribulation begins So how else do I know the tribulation hasn't started yet? Dan temples not rebuilt Israel is not sacrificing in the temple as it should be So here's another clue to a geopolitical event that's going to happen during the tribulation He will put a stop to sacrifice an offering and the abomination of desolation gigantic term Will be on a wing of the temple until decreed destruction is poured out on the desolator desolator also being this is what happens Kevin the Antichrist is a influential world leader who Influences a peace treaty with national Israel which brings about the restoration of the temple and the reactivation of the Jewish sacrificial system This is going to be a gigantic moment in politics Just think about how much of that area of the world is torn by war now now imagine peace Not just peace in an area but peace enough that Israel rebuilds the temple Rebegins the sacrificial system For three and a half years then in the middle of that time period The Antichrist kind of flips the script and he himself becomes in the object of worship How is that gonna happen Glenna this world leader is gonna get assassinated, but he's not going to die scripture says that he will survive a Lethal attack on his life and his survival of that lethal attack Judy is what will make him an object of worship so halfway through seven years which is three and a half years halfway through the tribulation period Somewhere in here the the Antichrist will be assassinated But he will not die he will actually be fully healed and that healing will be so miraculous That it will draw people to begin worshiping him and the abomination of desolation Which is a gigantic term in prophetic writing Melissa the Antichrist will put himself as the object of worship in the Lord's temple the ultimate disgrace for God's people the Antichrist will become an object of world worship because of this Miraculous healing that will take place This is really Kim what signifies the middle of the tribulation period where it's seven years the middle of it Things about things about to get real like I just not any better way to say that things are about to get real So the tribulation is seven years it begins with a peace treaty that is negotiated by the person who will be revealed as the Antichrist and it will bring peace to Israel for three and a half years They'll be able to rebuild and reinstall the Jewish sacrificial system until he Betrays that very treaty and he himself becomes an object of worship and Lena He's gonna put himself in the temple as an object of worship now. We're in the middle of the tribulation period. Here's your next blank God's judgments are released God's judgments can't tell you how many times I had to retype that word cuz I can't spell Listen I keep putting the E in there I keep typing the word judge Which has an E at the end of it and then mints and I keep putting Judgment's judgment and every time I write it my spell check keeps going. No, there's no E in the middle that way It just makes sense to me. Okay Now it just makes sense that way judge judge mints, all right Judgment's now we're going to read a pretty long passage of scriptures. You're gonna have to hang with me. This is 17 verses Revelation chapter 6 we're gonna read the entire chapter because there's no way around me describing all of this without reading it to you So we're going to look at Revelation chapter 6. I'm gonna start in verse 1 and I'm a real whole chapter. So here it is As I watched this is John speaking He's been given a vision by the Lord as I watched the lamb who's the lamb? Jesus the lamb broke the first of the seven seals on the scroll Then I heard one of the four living beings saying with a voice like thunder come I Looked up and saw a white horse standing there Its rider carried a bow and a crown was placed on his head He rode out to win many battles and gain the victory When the lamb broke the second seal I heard the second living being say come Then another horse appeared a red one Its rider was given a mighty sword and the authority to take peace from the earth and there was war and slaughter everywhere When the lamb broke the third seal I heard the third living being say come I Looked up and saw a black horse and its rider was holding a pair of scales in his hand and I heard a voice From among the four living beings say a loaf of wheat bread or three loaves of barley will cost a day's pay and Don't waste the olive oil and wine When the lamb broke the fourth seal I heard the fourth living being say come I Looked up and saw a horse who was pale green and its rider was named death and his companion was the grave These two were given authority over one fourth of the earth to kill with the sword and famine and disease and wild animals when the lamb broke the fifth seal I Saw under the altar the souls of all who have been martyred for the word of God and for being faithful in their testimony They shouted to the Lord and said oh Sovereign Lord holy and true how long before you judge the people who belong to this world and avenge our blood For what they have done to us Then a white robe was given to each of them and they were told to rest a little longer Until the full number of their brothers and sisters their fellow servants of Jesus who had to be martyred had joined them. I I Watched as the lamb broke the sixth seal and there was a great earthquake The Sun became as dark as black cloth and the moon became as red as blood Then the stars of the sky fell to the earth like green figs falling from a tree shaken by a strong wind The sky was rolled up like a scroll and all of the mountains and islands were moved from their places Then everyone the kings of the earth the rulers the generals the wealthy the powerful and every slave and free person all hid themselves in caves and among the rocks of the mountains and they cried to the mountains into the rocks fall on us and Hide us from the face of the one who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the lamb for the great day of their wrath has come and Who is able to survive? When most people think about revelation and the end of the world this is what they think about This is where God Begins to unleash his wrath on the world now Angelina The first thing we have to ask is why does God have wrath against the world? The simple answer is sin Not think about go all the way back to the Garden of Eden Go all the way back to the Garden of Eden Doug when God created Adam and Eve did he create them sinful? No, did he create them with the capacity to choose sin? Yes, when God created Adam Eve, they were created the Bible says upright that means without sin However Lynette when God created humanity, he created humanity to be willful He created us to have the ability to choose even if making that choice Judy was not in our best interests God created a willful species when he made man He made us the ability to choose and in that ability to choose sin came to the planet Now, why did I say the planet think about what God said to Adam Eve when sin showed up? Who got punished? There were punishments for Adam he began to have to work the the ground produced thistles there were punishments for Eve She had pain and childbearing but there were also punishments for the planet Think about back in the Garden of Eden all the animals lived peaceably along with one another After sin the animals chased and ate each other before the fall Plants just naturally produce the best fruit after the fall they produce in seasons and in cycles and they die So God's wrath on sin is not just on humanity It is on all of creation because at the fall at Adam and Eve all of creation Was marred by sin now in your bulletins. I gave you a little Handout it looks like this. Please take it out for a moment I Want to bring you back to the timeline? We are in the middle of the tribulation three and a half years into the seven-year period I don't have the room to fit it on the back of your bulletin But there are three sets of judgments that are poured out from heaven on earth The first is the seals the seven seals are broken We just read those if you continue reading on there are seven trumpet judgments Then there are seven bowl Judgments at the sound of a trumpet something happens at the pouring out of a bowl something happens That's why they're called the trumpet and bowl judgments No, Cory Jesus does not come down and punch you with a trumpet that it's not what the trumpet judgments mean So I gave this to you for a later study or you reading this breaks down the different judgments that happen But there is something I want to point out in the first set of judgments the seals This is where we get the idea of the four horsemen of the apocalypse Did you notice the first four seals each sent forth a horseman? So do me a favor. Let's just look at the seal judgments one two, three and four number one This the first horseman is the Antichrist now you're gonna say to me. Wait a minute. Isn't the Antichrist a human being? Yes, Nelson the Antichrist is a human being but he is empowered with a spiritual power that goes beyond his humanness If you go back and look at the first horseman, he's on a white horse now Fred everybody goes Wait a minute Jesus rides a white horse. Yes, he does but Jesus doesn't get on his horse until chapter 19 How do I know that because Jesus is there to break the second seal? He's not on the white horse that leaves on the first seal because Nelson if he does that how's he also in heaven opening the final Sex seals the first horseman is the Antichrist. Why is he on a white horse? Because the first thing the Antichrist does is bring peace The white of his horse represents the peace that he brings to the earth. Who's the second horseman war? It's not until the second seal Kevin that war breaks out on earth the Antichrist first comes to bring peace and then war happens and War is the second so he's the one on the red horse then third the black horse death What almost always happens after ancient war? famine Between the war between famine. It says that death is given permission And then the final one is the scales that's the famine and then the death death has given permission to kill 1-4 of the world's population I'm a geek Angelina. I had to kind of figure out how many people that is back in 2013 They estimated how many people live on planet earth now as in 2013 There were 7.1 to 5 billion with a B people on planet earth 7.1 to 5 billion people on earth 25% of 7.1 to 5 billion is 1.78 billion with a B People will die in the first seal judgments now Melissa What is 1.78 billion people look like I also looked it up because I'm that much of a geek If you killed every man woman and living child in all of North America South America Europe and Australia you would still only be at 1.67 billion so during the first set of seals just imagine Every living human being North America South America Europe and Australia gone That's how many people will die in the first set of sealed in the I haven't even made it out of the horsemen yet and 1.78 billion people on the planet will die It is about I told you Melissa. It's gonna get real and it's gonna get real. It's gonna get real quick 1.78 billion people perish because of The war and the famine that the horsemen bring And with that cheery news, here's your next blank. There's no real good transition for this next one Israel will be persecuted Kim we talked about the fact that the seven-year tribulation is Launched with a peace treaty being signed with Israel. They enjoy peace for three and a half years then the anti-Christ Renegades on the peace treaty and now Israel gets persecuted in The most intense way in all of history Turn with me to the gospel of Matthew Chapter 24 we're gonna look at verses 15 through 22. So Matthew Chapter 24 verses 15 through 22. These are the words of Jesus himself Describing the persecution of Israel When you see standing in the holy place the abomination that causes Desolation the anti-Christ being worshiped in the temple spoken up through the prophet Daniel We just looked at that let the reader understand then let those who are in Judea Who Israel? Flee to the mountains let no one on the housetop go down to take anything out of the house Let no one in the field go back to get their cloak How dreadful it will be in those days for pregnant women and nursing mothers Pray that your flight will not take place in winter or on the Sabbath for then there will be great distress highlight this next part of the sentence unequaled from the beginning of the world until now and Never to be equaled again if those days had not been cut short No one would survive But for the sake of the elect those days will be shortened Israel will be persecuted in such a way that has never occurred in all of human history now just think back about history and Think back to how badly the Jews have been treated Let's go back to Egypt The Pharaoh kills The Pharaoh kills an entire generation of Jewish babies Fast forward to Babylon Assyria the Romans in AD 70 come in and destroy the temple fast forward to World War two and How horrible the Nazi regime was to the Lord's people and now understand that all of those things? I just mentioned will pale in Comparison to the vengeance that will be poured out on national Israel everything that Israel has experienced from the beginning of the world until now and Never to be equaled again that means nothing on earth will happen as horrible as the Persecution that will be poured out on national Israel in the latter half of the tribulation It is going to be the worst thing that you can imagine just think about that and think about whatever is worse than that That is what national Israel will experience why because what happens in all of scripture when God's people are persecuted if my people Will call on my name will humble themselves and pray I will hear their voice and heal Their land if you look at the Old Testament you zoom out and you look at the whole thing God uses persecution to draw his children back to him Look at what happened with Moses they originally come with Joseph and they're blessed and all of that and then they starting they start intermarrying and everything else and God brings persecution to draw their hearts back and then in The Babylonians the Assyrians the Romans God uses persecution to draw their hearts back This will be the worst persecution that Israel has ever experienced because they're being drawn to Jesus The Messiah that they missed the first time Remember the Church of Jesus Christ is not on planet Earth when this happens Thank you, dear God. I Don't want to be around for 1.78 billion people being slaughtered by war and famine. I don't want to be around When gigantic comets just start flinging themselves at Earth when you get a chance go look over the rest of the bowl judgments More people die and there's there's eruptions and the saltwater and the freshwater they turn to blood Locust like creatures emerge from inside the planet and start eating people I mean, it's like sci-fi movie Cory it gets for real and it gets for real real quick Keep in mind the latter half only lasts three and a half years half of seven so this latter half of absolutely horrible worldwide craziness all happens in three and a half years and then Here comes the end check out your last blank this morning The return of Jesus ends the tribulation the return of Jesus ends the tribulation This is what is referred to as the second coming of Christ. What was the first coming? No, no, the first coming of Jesus Christmas the next day Christmas the Nativity Theologically, we call it the incarnation the first coming of Jesus to planet earth is what we call Christmas When Jesus was born in human form that was his first coming to earth the second coming to earth It's a little different Take a look at Revelation chapter 19 We're gonna look at two different sections from chapter 19 The first we're gonna look at is Revelation 19 11 through 13, so just a shorter section So this is Revelation chapter 19. I'm gonna begin reading in verse 11 Then I saw heaven opened and there was a white horse Its rider is called faithful and true and he judges and makes war in righteousness His eyes are like a fiery flame and many crowns were on his head He had a name written that no one knows except himself. He wore a robe stained with blood And his name is the word of God. Who's that? Jesus Christ The first time Angelina when Jesus came to earth he was born. He's the pretty, you know nativity baby and the no crying He makes you know all the fun Christmasy stuff. Melissa the next time Jesus comes to earth. It's a little different He comes to make War Now something I want to point out here Obviously Jesus is riding the white horse This is the true white horse of peace. Jesus is coming to install his earthly kingdom, which we're going to talk about This is not the false white horse that we looked at in chapter 6 The antichrist rolls rides a false white horse because the antichrist brings a false peace Jesus rides the true white horse of peace because he is the prince of peace But this time Jesus comes and look he judges and he makes war Now look at the very the very last line. He wore a robe stained with blood I really got tripped up on this As I was preparing your five minute moments, then you saw that picture That's why I was up at midnight trying to read and study and make sure that I fully comprehended this because kim Whenever we hear Jesus and blood, what do we think of? The cross that's automatically what we think of Jesus Cross bought our salvation with his blood. So my natural inclination Fred was to assume That the blood that stained his robe is the blood on the cross I was wrong Let's read the rest of the chapter So give me revelation 19. We're going to continue reading at verse 14 The armies of heaven were following him. Who is that? All the saints who have been martyred over the years got a white robe and a lightsaber and they're coming to make war with Jesus The armies of heaven were following him riding on white horses and dressed in fine linen White and clean coming out of his mouth is a sharp sword with which to strike down The nations he will rule them with an iron scepter He treads the wine press of the fury of the wrath of god almighty on his robe and on his thigh he has This name written king of kings and lord of lords. That's actually where we get the term for jesus And I saw an angel standing in the sun who cried in a loud voice to all the birds flying in midair Come gather together for a for the great supper of god So that you may eat the flesh of kings Generals and the mighty of horses and their riders and the flesh of all people free and slave great and small Then I saw the beast meaning the antichrist and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to wage war against the rider And the horse and his army. This is the battle of armageddon The beast was captured and with it the false prophet who had performed the signs on his behalf With these signs he had diluted those who had received the mark of the beast and worshiped its image The two of them were thrown alive into the fiery lake of burning sulfur The rest were killed with the sword coming out of the mouth of the rider of the horse and all the birds gorged themselves on their flesh Now when you read the whole chapter, what's the blood on jesus's robe? The blood of war when jesus comes back He comes back for war You saw there the antichrist in the latter half in preparing for what we call armageddon There is an actual battle an actual war that will happen called armageddon the antichrist will gather together At somewhere between the middle of the tribulation and the latter half of the tribulation The antichrist not only becomes an object of worship and i'll mention the false prophet that you see here There's another character mentioned in in the book of revelation called the false prophet glenna when the antichrist is Seemingly resurrected from this assassination attempt again a false messiah the anti-christ or non-christ He is going to have a false healing or a false resurrection to make himself appear to be jesus He will have a false resurrection and he will have his own prophet And this false prophet will lead people in worshiping the anti-christ as if he were christ That's what the false prophet is for and he performs signs and miraculous wonders Seemingly empowered by the anti-christ in order to dilute and lead people into worship Now we know that satan has the power to deceive We've seen him deceive in the bible. We've seen him make images and just an attempt to deceive jesus himself We know that the enemy can use the word of god make no mistake about it when this goes down It's gonna look supernatural The anti-christ will have some sort of false resurrection and there will arise a prophet who leads the world in worshiping this resurrected messiah It's meant to sound exactly like a false jesus Then all of a sudden jesus goes and it's time And jesus gets on his white horse the true white horse of peace and armed with the other people who are in white robes Who are those all the people who've been martyred for their faith throughout time? And jesus comes back to make war How do I know that? Because the birds of the air are going to circle and engorge themselves on the flesh of all the dead human beings that stood against jesus That's what's going to happen I have no idea when but I can tell you this It'll go down the way the bible says it'll go down Now do we know where the battle of armageddon is going to take place? No, we do not scripture is not clear about you know, this square mile of of land is where They're going to throw down. I can tell you who wins the battle of armageddon But I can't tell you exactly where it's going to happen When jesus returns to earth for his second time He will return as the conquering king of kings he was Very and it's hard sometimes angelina to see jesus as the warrior Because the first time he came to us he came as the suffering servant But remember what happened? To the money lenders in god's temple anybody remember that in the gospel of john What did jesus do? Jesus went over to the window Took down the blinds made himself a whip and beat people out of god's house Now what's happening before jesus comes back? The antichrist has set himself up as the object of worship In the lord's house So if you're looking for a reason jesus come back with a vengeance you've got one we saw it in john how Passionate what did scripture say zeal for my father's house? Overwhelms me when jesus comes back the second time he comes back to kill I don't mean that to frighten you now Knowing all of this. What's the good news? How many sports fans do I have? Anybody a big sports fan miss tj. What is your favorite sport? Basketball somebody else favorites anybody football fan Okay football hockey And sometimes Anybody else another favorite sport? Baseball, okay all of these different sporting events they have Um, and and I'm it i'm not a big sports fan. I can watch chess on tv and still be happy. Um, I'm not but glenna. I know this because I have friends who are sports fans. Um, I know that every year There's this huge football game Called the super bowl Every year There's a set of baseball games to determine the winner the world series Every year there's a basketball tournament which is The nba finals, right? And then it gets out of the fun and then the final four All of your major sporting events they have this quintessential moment when everything comes together and it's a massive competition to see who wins, right? What if you knew the outcome before the tournament Would it change the way you anticipated what would happen Dan what if you could go into the world series knowing how it was going to play out? Knowing who was going to win? Would you have nearly as much? Fear Would you have as much? Anticipation what if you could go into the super bowl? Knowing the outcome Not for betting purposes You throw that in there Does knowing the outcome of an event Change your perspective Of that event I would have to say yes it does This is why it is important to understand the teachings of the end time kim it is not for us to be afraid and the opposite I have no fear Know who wins I know what's gonna happen at the end times. I know who's gonna win the tournament Jesus comes back and he slaughters everybody at the battle of armageddon And he re instills his earthly kingdom, that's what happens I don't have to sit with bated breath and fear what's going to happen because my lord has already told me the outcome That is what I want you to get out of this morning's message. Yes There are some next level fearful things that are going to happen But diane we do not stand afraid because a we were raptured and don't have to experience it praise jesus and b We're told the outcome of the event now, thank you very much. Here's where we're going from here Next week. We're going to pick the story up right here after the battle of armageddon. Jesus has come to earth He is going to set up the earthly kingdom that is also referred to as the millennial Reign for those of you who are more familiar with that term Jesus's earthly kingdom will last for a thousand years That is why it's called the millennial reign So if you're counting the number of years that have passed how many years into the tribulation are we at the end of today's message? Seven right seven years because the tribulation lasts seven years now. Jesus is going to reign on earth for a thousand years a thousand plus seven equals 1007 That's how I can tell you the end of the world is a series of events Lynette's gonna last for at least a minimum of 1007 years and when we get to final judgment eternal kingdom We'll talk about how much time really exists in there The bible is not completely as accurate as is on all these other details. So do me a favor and pull out your connection card You can see three I want you to take a next step this particular week It would be super important to look up and read some of what we talked about today There are definitely some things that are hotly debated There are some of some people who believe that the first horseman The first of the four horsemen because he's on a white horse must be jesus I've read arguments for and arguments against and I have to say after reading scripture I do not think the first horseman is jesus because angeline here's the other thing the first four horsemen Or the let's say numbers two three and four they all bring uber bad stuff to the earth, right? uber bad war famine death Why would there be one good horseman followed by three bad horsemen It seems more likely that the imagery he's using all four would be negative horsemen And then again jesus gets on his horse in chapter 19 So this week I will look up one of the sermon points and study it at home Please do me a favor look these up. I don't want you to be afraid of revelation That is one thing I can say miss judy after after responding to the request to study this material I am so much less afraid of the book of revelation like it's an intimidating topic Even some of my pastor friends were like dude You're gonna teach revelation on a sunday I said, yes, why not? It's the bible It's worth teaching. It's worth studying. It's worth reading But the problem is, you know doug there's so many different views There's pre and post and mid millennial this and postmodern that and you know, okay, well fine So there's a million different views i'm gonna read scripture and teach what I think the bible says not what somebody says about the bible But please do me a favor your next one This week I will have a bible study about this week's message. This is the kind of topic that you could talk about for hours at home Get out the bible And read it Do you know one of the most motivating things that I get out of study in revelation glennan? I want my friends to know jesus before that So we're not here I want my family members to be saved before this So that they're not here This is incredibly motivating for me malissa to get out there and want to share my faith because you know what I love you enough I don't want you to go through that you might be one of the first set 1.78 billion that doesn't even make it to the fifth seal I don't want to see my friends and family go through that incredibly motivating Read it and study it at home Third I want help growing in my faith If you don't have a plan to grow spiritually you need one Everything goes better with a plan With a plan you can measure with a plan You can direct you can guide. I would like to help you make that plan If you don't have one do me a favor take that as your next step On the right hand side upcoming events The c3 uh lady small group that will be this saturday at 9 30 the identify class next sunday 4 o'clock The something melanie forgot to mention the announcements The identify class is for members only if you are not a member of c3 Which if you're not unsure about that you can text me and I can check for you But if you did not attend a membership class or predate me as a part of this church You know kim's family was here Uh diane tj there are a couple people who are here before me if you were here before I got here you automatically got made a member When we created the new membership policy But if you came after I was here and you did not go to a membership class, you're not a member I want you to learn about your spiritual gifts I want you to learn how god has made you and how you can be more successful not only in evangelism, but in your regular jobs And he ever tried to eat soup with a fork. It's crazy frustrating Because you're not using the right tools It's crazy frustrating Because you're not using the right tool with the right shape Come and learn identify 4 p.m. Next sunday And then finally pray for our youth group We're relaunching the youth group this week. I have personally contacted all the different families who have teenagers in our church One of my personal desires and i'll just tell you honestly, I want to see the teenagers in our church involved in our sunday morning Whether they're greeters and not just sticking them in the nursery to watch kids I mean a part of our church family. Here's here's my point fred How else do we teach young people? To become good stewards of the church if they do not follow our example as adults How else do we teach teenagers how to worship if they can't worship with their families? How else do we teach teenagers that it's okay to have opinions about the bible nelson if we can't get them to wired word And talk with other adults I want to see the teenagers in our church as involved with the adults not separated out into their own Microcosmic church because the problem is that's how you end up with churches where there's this massive age difference You got old people churches and you got young people churches Why because all they did is take the youth group and the youth group just got older They never learned how to transition from being a teenager to being a young adult And i'm not going to point at anybody when I say senior adult So Please do me a favor pray for million. I if you are interested in becoming a volunteer and helping with the youth group On the very bottom of your connection card. There's a section that says i'm interested in serving in student ministries on there if you are interested in becoming a volunteer and helping to Help mold the beginnings of our new youth group. I would love your help. I'll be honest I have to take over the youth ministry You know why because we can't afford any other staff And it's my job to make sure our churches run as excellently as possible So sure I would love some help and it could be easy as a phone call or looking something up helping plan a fun event Helping drive some kids. Unfortunately, not all teenagers can drive cars and even the ones who can drive not sure I want to drive it You know Not pointing out anybody in particular i'm just saying if you'd be interested in helping melly and I Mold and begin our new student ministry. I would super love some help Please think of that as an option If you don't feel you want to put up with teenagers and help teach the bible kim i'm not offended at that We all have our different shapes if you're a fork stay away from the soup And then finally your offering envelope is right there inside your Inside your bulletin if we'd like to if you'd like to use your offering envelope this morning You are more than welcome to do that If you do not want to use your offering envelope you guys know what i'm going to say Please do me a favor And put it in the offering when it goes by Recycling these I told you it makes that single box last probably four or five hundred percent longer And I still have How long have we been using just these? Three years how many boxes have we actually gone through? I think two Two I have seven more of these at home That's how long Just recycling them makes them last because we may be a small church But just think about how many offering envelopes would get wasted If they were left here or you take them home and you throw them away That's not being a good steward and in all honesty, that's why the only address is my home address So that way even if the church had to change locations, we didn't have to keep throwing out our envelopes So please do me a favor take out your offering envelope if you would prefer to give electronically you are welcome to do that Give to c3.org. We also have text giving Something that i'm going to try to do this week is i'm going to try to and get some of our social media presidents aware of operation christmas child You know dan since I picked on your family earlier today, maybe your family doesn't have a church family But you know your family could engage with operation christmas child Because they could get on our website or they could get on social media and they can give a gift And then melanie and and some of the ladies in church y'all can just go shop your hearts out I don't mind that melanie loves to shop Anybody else like to shop? Okay, I just turned shopping into a ministry. Look at that Look at that Shopping can be a ministry If people in the church give we'll have a shopping day I'll watch the kids y'all can all go shopping and buy toys for bunch of kids around the planet bring jaden over Micah, micah and jaden can beat each other up with lightsabers all day No joke, I mean micah cut my hand with his lightsaber last night weird I told I had to tell my nieces I said girls you're welcome to play with micah, but he's a boy He doesn't play he plays to hit he doesn't just play to play I said, so if he can make my hands bleed this is your expectation if you try to fight with micah None of them lasted more than 30 seconds The very first time he stepped when he swung they were like So listen, please do me a favor if you want to use electronic giving you're welcome to do that. Mr Doug if you and your cohort could come up and serve the church this morning in a moment These two good-looking gentlemen are going to collect this morning's offering and your connection card One of the other reasons that oh, I forgot to mention If you have a question about something that was said in today's sermon and you may have one Please before you put that connection card in there's some blank lines on the front I use the wrong template and so the I have a question is missing on the back There's some blank lines on the front. I'll give you a minute I'll talk about giving some more. Um, i'll give you a minute if you need to ask a question At the end of this series i'm going to spend a sunday just answering your questions Any question that is submitted will get Talked about on the final sunday of this series if you think of a question midweek Text me call me email me throw it on facebook Hashtag me do something send me a singing telegram nobody has yet done that Someone eventually will i'm gonna keep throwing it out there and then someone's gonna send me a singing telegram and then I will My life will be complete But if you have a question, I know I talked about some really next level deep stuff today Okay, I know I did I want to make sure you feel comfortable in your knowledge If you have a question put it on your connection card when we get to the q and a week We will review them and talk about them at a little bit more length because hopefully I only have a handful of questions And so we'll really be able to dig in and get to them So hopefully I have stalled enough for you to write your questions Please do me a favor take your connection card your offering envelope hold them in your hand We are going to pray over them this morning and then our lovely ushers will serve our congregation heavenly father Thank you For knowing how it ends father. Thank you that we can stand firm in our faith knowing that you have told us What will come lord help us to share our faith? With those that we love so that they will not have to endure the pouring out of your wrath on this planet Lord help us save our friends our family and help us introduce our community to the loving savior that desires To save their soul Though we worship you this morning Please bless every single person who's giving financially to support our church to give to worship you god I pray you would pour out your blessings that you have already set forth in scripture on their lives Let we thank you in your awesome name. Amen