This morning we are going to continue our Pillars series. A big thank you to Pastor Jack who rocked it last week. Thank you Pastor Jack for allowing me to take a break and also thank you Pastor Jack for kicking off our brand new series. Now if you'll notice on the back of your bulletin this morning we gave you a break. We actually gave you the answer key. So there aren't any blanks there aren't any blanks for you to fill in this morning. But I do want you to sort of to stay here with me. Somebody asked me why Pillars? What is Pillars really about? And Nelson I'll just use you for this illustration. I want to take you back 400 years for just a brief trip. So for a brief trip let's rewind to the 1600s. The Catholic Church is the only Christian church on the planet. You are Catholic or you are pagan or you are Jewish. That's about it. Because around the 1600s is when this little bitty thing happened that we like to call the Christian Reformation. Reformation means reform to change. And what had happened was by the time the 1600s rolled around the Catholic Church had gotten severely off on some of its doctrinal levels. What is doctrine? Angelina, doctrine is teaching a systemized or systematic belief. Like for instance we believe that Jesus saves. That is a doctrine. It is a belief. A foundational belief of the Christian faith. Well Sean by the time we got around to the 1600s the Catholic Church was well off into some really hairy territory. To give you an example Melvin if you came to church you could give an offering big enough to buy forgiveness for your sins. Not only that but Lynette you could actually give offering to buy forgiveness for your previously deceased ancestors so they could get out of purgatory quicker. Now I should say after church today we're gonna start a building fund. Sorry. Bad joke but let's be honest Diane that's how most of the cathedrals around the world were built. They would go around and raise money by selling what were called indulgences. And I would write or Catholic priest would write an indulgence. Now does that mean that the entire Catholic Church is an evil monstrosity that should not exist? No it does not. Like any human organization that is run by humans it is open to sway into territories it shouldn't be. But in the 1600s the Catholic Church was doing several things that were clearly non-biblical. And Jenny one of the reasons they could get away with it was the common person you and I we didn't have access to the Bible. We weren't able to read the Bible. The Bible was only in Latin and the only people who studied Latin were priests. And so I mean you had a monopoly on all the information. Jackie if I don't know what Jesus said and you're the only person that can read it to me I have no choice to believe and follow what you say. Well around about the 1600s there was this guy. His name was Martin Luther and he was growing up to be a priest. And he was so good at studying he became a professor. He started teaching younger people to become priests. And he became so good at that that he was transferred to a better seminary and for the first time in his life as an adult he read the New Testament. He had only ever studied the Old Testament. And Diane Martin Luther reads the New Testament and he begins to read the words of Jesus. And he begins to read how beautifully Paul defended freedom in Christ. And his heart is transformed by the power of the Word of God. And there were other reformers during that time but Martin Luther is most definitely the most famous name from that time. And he started what we now call the Reformation. Which is Protestantism breaking free of the Catholic Church and in the 1600s Protestant was born. Ray if you are not Catholic you are Protestant by default. There's only two sides to it. It's like Jew Gentile. If you ain't a Jew you're a Gentile. If you ain't a Catholic you're automatically a Protestant. Protestantism covers all the denominations we have in the US today. Baptist, Lutheran, I almost said Mathematrian. Methodist and Presbyterian got married and had a Mathematrian. Methodist, Presbyterian, Assembly of God, Church of God, Four Square, CMA, non-denominational, Nelson, it's all of us. We're all Protestants. Well we all came out of the Protestant Reformation. Out of the Reformation came five distinct and unique battle cries for doctrinal purity. And Celine what a doctrine is, is it's a foundational belief. And each week during the Pillars series we are going to examine one of those five pillars. And so now let me give you the key thought. It's at the top of the back of your bulletin. Here's the key thought for this series and I want to tell you why this the history lesson I just gave you is so important. A healthy Christian life is guarded and guided by a firm foundation. Why is that important? Because it is the doctrines, the beliefs of the Christian faith that are supposed to guide us from heresy or false teaching and are supposed to guard us from heresy and false teaching and guide us in correct living. Dan when you have to make a decision and you have to use your faith to make that decision, there should be more than what feels good. If we believe that our faith is true and is factual and is believable, then Sean making a decision based on faith should be more than just oh it feels right. Because Lynette what happens if it feels right today but it feels wrong tomorrow? Our emotions, our feelings should not be the definition of doctrine for the Christian faith. And so out of the Reformation came what we call the five solas. If you want to write this down it's S-O-L-A right at the top of your bulletin. Sola fide now sola is the Latin word for only and those five solas are sola gracia which pastor Jack introduced you to you last week. We're saved by grace alone. Sola fide which we're gonna look at this morning which is we are saved by faith alone. And then as we go through the series we will introduce you to the others. Anybody know what one of the others might be? Sola Christus, hurrah! Diane, Sola Christus, we're saved by Jesus alone. Sola Deo Gloria to a God alone be the glory. And what's the fifth one? Sola fide, sola gratia, sola Christus. Sola Scriptura, the authority of the Bible alone. These are five pillars that are the foundation of Protestant biblical doctrine. So this morning I want to introduce you to Sola fide or by faith alone. So your first and I'm gonna call them blanks because that's what I'm used to but your first blank that's already filled in for you faith is not hoping or positive thinking. You know in today's culture faith is kind of a weird word. We can have faith in something. Oh just have faith it'll work out. We can share the same faith with somebody. Angelina and I share the same faith. Faith can be used in a lot of different terms but the question really is what do we have faith in? There has to be a difference between faith and I hope. Oh I hope you get better. No no no I have faith that you'll get better. Or the power of positive thinking. I know that got really popular in psychology through the 80s and 90s. The power of positive thinking change your life by thinking good thoughts. That is not faith that is just hokum. It's positive thinking. Faith has to stand on its own as something very different. So first let's take a look in the book of Hebrews. It's about two-thirds through the New Testament. Titus, Philemon, Hebrews, James. So that's where you're looking for and we're gonna look in chapter 11 and here's the first three verses of Hebrews chapter 11 and I've got it for you here. This is the English standard version. So this is Hebrews 11 1-3 in the ESV says this, now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. For by it the people of old received their commendation. By faith we understand that the universe was created by the Word of God so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. Now let me give you just the first line here. Faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. There has to be a difference between I hope, I think, and I have faith. And here it is. That word assurance in the Greek, for those who want to write this down, is G5287. Those of you who are Tuesday Nights know how to use the Strongs. 5287 and it's hypostasis and it literally means a substructure or foundation that which is built beneath. So a substructure, foundation, you know Fred I know you know a lot about foundation being in contracting. What happens if the building doesn't have a solid foundation? Doesn't matter how good it looks, right? Doesn't matter how expensive the wall hangings are, doesn't matter what color the curtain is, doesn't matter what kind of toilet you put in or what kind of shower you put in. If you screw up the foundation it will eventually all come crumbling down. That is where we have to start our conversation this morning about faith. Faith has to be a hypostasis or a foundation. Look I can even throw in a random word. Actually in my notes I have to write it out like phonetically so I don't screw it up because the first time I looked at it I went oh, Hoopoe. Hoopostasis and then I had to look it up and went oh that's not right. Hypostasis, a substructure. So faith is a foundation or a substructure on which our life is to be built and then the second thing here is it says it is a conviction of things not seen. Now that word conviction means the rule or proof that which something is tested against. So you might want to think about it maybe like tape measure. When you pull out a tape measure Doug and you're measuring for cabinets and your tape measure tells you it's six inches, do you believe the tape measure? Why? Simple. Anybody, why do you believe the tape measure? It's a standard, it's a foundation, it's established. You don't question, now if your tape measure got bent you might grab another tape measure but it's still based on the same standard, the same foundation. If you wanted to measure something you pull out something that you believe, something that you trust, something that is empirical, that is not changing, that is not based on your emotional state. It is either six inches or it is eight inches and it doesn't matter if it's Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, if it's sunny or if it's rainy, if your dog's inside or outside, what color clothes you're wearing, what color your eyes are, what church you go to, six inches and eight inches will always be the same. That is what faith is supposed to be. If it is six inches it will always be six inches, if it is eight inches it will always be eight inches. All of a sudden she went. This is where our faith has to start. Ray, it is not only a foundation that we have to stand on for our lives, it is the standard by which our lives are measured. Nelson, that means whatever decision you face in your life, I want you to pull out that tape measure and figure out is it six inches or eight inches. This is where faith starts and this is why in my opinion discussing the five solas, yes it is a look back at history, shows us how studious we can be, but Dan I think there's another big problem here. I think the modern day church is having a doctrinal crisis of its own. Denominations are splitting, more people are, you know people say people are leaving the Christian church in droves. It's not actually accurate. Population is growing faster than the church is growing. It used to be that the church grew at the same level that population grew and that meant that our faith had the same percentage. Excuse me. Oh not quite. At least I get that off the mic so it's not all stuck in the little windscreen at the bottom. There's a mental picture for you. No, I apologize, but Dan I do think the church is in a doctrinal crisis. Even the word doctrine, I saw some posts from some of my Christian Facebook friends on Facebook in the last month that are like I believe in Jesus not church. Okay, I believe in Jesus, but Jesus established the church. I believe in truth not doctrine. Now that's a dangerous statement isn't it? Because all of a sudden, see doctrine is based on the Bible. The word doctrine exists because the Christian faith invented it. So Selena when I say I believe in doctrine, by definition I'm automatically saying I believe in the word of God, but what about truth? Then my question is Nelson, what is your measurement of truth? I think if we're not careful, Jack we are going to find ourselves in five to ten years from now in a Christian church that is back to arguing about the nature of Jesus that they argue about the council of Nicaea a thousand years ago. And they established a doctrine of what we believe as Christians. But now because those doctrines are no longer politically correct and they offend people when we talk about sin or whatever, all of a sudden now our doctrines have to change because society says they do. No I don't think so. I think there has to be a church somewhere that is willing to defend doctrine without attacking those who oppose it. Jackie I don't mind. I have homosexual friends, I have atheist friends, I have agnostic friends, I have friends who probably wouldn't be my friend if they knew what I did for a living. I'm a graphic designer to them and I go to their office or I deliver a product and it's very clear they don't go to church. And it doesn't bother me. I'm not offended by it. I'm not walking in their office and I'm beating them over the head with my Bible considering it's an iPad that would hurt. And try to convince them to come to Jesus. There must be a difference in defending doctrine and attacking those who believe differently than us. But if we are going to be healthy Christians whose life is protected, we have to be clear about our doctrine. So the first thing is this. Faith is not hoping or positive thinking. Here's your second point. Faith is a verb not a noun. Makes me think of the the old DC talk song, Love is a Verb. Faith is a verb not a noun. Take a look at the second verse from Hebrews chapter 11. For it, meaning faith, for it, for by it the people of old received their commendation. Now I think it's interesting the way the ESV chose to bear this out. That's why I chose it. For by it people of old received their commendation. That word commendation, well first let me rewind. Let me talk about who we're talking about. The people of old. The writer of Hebrews is referring to a group of people and if you were to read all of chapter 11 you would find them. Abel, the story of Cain and Abel. We looked at him during the worship series. By faith Abel offered worship to God. By faith Noah constructed the ark. By faith Abraham journeyed away from home without knowing his destination. By faith Sarah had a baby of promise from God. By faith Jacob blessed his sons. By faith Joseph saved his nation and by faith Moses delivered the Hebrews and I haven't even made it out of Genesis yet. That's how much faith is the foundation that our lives should be built on. All of these characters made decisions and actions based on their faith. Faith is not something you have or you own or you hold but it is something that you do that you live, that you speak, that you choose, that you are motivated by. Faith must be a verb not a noun. The life we live if truly our faith is our foundation, is the substructure on which our life is lived then by its very nature Winifred Jesus and the word of God is the ruler, the tape measure for our life. Every decision you make, every conversation you have should be measured with your faith. There should not be part of your life that is compartmentalized that you know Lynette I love Jesus and I'm going to worship him but I gotta go to work on Monday and Jesus doesn't really have any place at work or you know Angelina maybe you're out Tuesday night having dinner with your people from work because Eric's working late and I'm just going to go out to dinner with these people but these people really don't go to church so that part of my life. Now what I'm not saying is, Laz I'm not saying that you need to open every conversation with, hi what's your name my name is Bill do you know Jesus great because you're going to go to hell. That's not what I mean. I don't mean open out every conversation with hey Ray praise Jesus what can I pray for you today God wants to do a miracle in your life. I don't hang out with people like that I'll just be perfectly honest with you. I don't have a problem with faith but trying to push your faith into someone else's life there's a point where persistence becomes annoyance. So let's be honest we should have a balance. Laz I do believe that your faith should guide every decision of your life and that also means look at the way Jesus lived. Jesus didn't judge people on the outset from the first handshake. Jesus ate with tax collectors and sinners but he never authorized their sin. If you go back and look at the way Jesus spoke I think his choice of words and some of his conversations are really brilliant because whilst Jesus had compassion on the woman who was caught in adultery in the middle of the synagogue where all these other people are trying to stone her you never see Jesus say you know what what you did is okay. God didn't see that. I love that one. God just didn't see what I do on Saturdays he only sees me at church on Sundays. I think that's hilariously mistaken. In your everyday life how many of your actions are founded and driven by your faith? We live in a consumeristic culture most of us have to go to work we have to earn a paycheck then we got to pay bills which is why we earn the paycheck. You know our life revolves around money. That doesn't mean that I want you to stop going to work and just read your bible and pray for nine hours a day but what about going to work what about driving in your car do you find time for prayer do you find time and listening to the conversations around the water cooler for ways to pray for your co-workers does faith ever come up in your conversations now I know that's a sticky subject because sometimes people don't want you talking about any kind of religion in the workplace but I have never and I hold lots of secular jobs and have always brought my faith to work and I have never been corrected for saying may I pray about that not right now not to embarrass you but it's okay if I put up my purge and I'll pray for you later I've never been corrected for that ever because I'm not trying to make a scene right here in the workplace I'm just trying to let you know that I have faith that God wants to do something in your life and if you're going to give me something as simple as a prayer request an opportunity to watch God work in your life I'm going to capitalize on that and I'm going to pray and believe that God can make a difference faith must be the verb in which we live not just my oh oh look I've got my I've got my I get to go into heaven access card so thank you Jesus I'm going to put it in my wallet my purse and it never comes out again here's your third blank or third point faith is founded on God himself now we have to ask a really interesting question do we have faith in faith or do we have faith in God do we have faith in faith or do we have faith in God take a look at the third verse of Hebrews chapter 11 by faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible now here's interesting when we have faith and I mean us as Christians as those of us in this room when you're going through a hard time and and you have to go Lord I'm just going to have faith what are you having faith in what are you having faith in what are you believing in are you believing that it'll just get better with enough time life will change or are you believing in a sovereign God who has a plan there's a big difference there Lina you can be going through a trial and just go have faith till morning comes okay then 6 a.m. and the sun rises and your trial hadn't gotten any better or do we have faith in a God who sees my circumstance who sees my heart who hears my distress who I can go to in prayer Sean explain that life is not easy for me right now and believe in a sovereign God who hears me and will answer my prayers do we have faith in faith or do we have faith in God and I think the way it's interesting the writer gives us a simple argument by faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God simple question you don't have to raise your hands do you believe God created the world simple easy most people who in a Christian church would probably say yes to that do I believe that God created the world great then that means the very earth I am standing on is evidence of the word of God that's what he's saying he's saying everything that you see everything that you touch everything that you smell everything that all of your senses tell you are real we're all created by the word of God you need a reason to have faith look down you're standing on dirt you're standing on something man-made the very physical existence that we have is proof of the word of God if you believe the simple question did God create the world so if you are here this morning and you're not sure where your faith is check your feet if you have enough faith to stand up on whatever's underneath of you you are standing on the product of the word of God you should have an if you believe that God created the world and God created whatever is stopping me from falling into the vast voidness of space I'm not currently falling in a black hole so therefore my faith is holding me up it's a great double-sided analogy that he's giving you number one Dan what is physically under your feet is evidence of the power of the word of God and number two he's trying to tell you that is where your faith should be your substructure your foundation that which supports and holds you up we have faith in God not faith in faith don't just go up to somebody else just have faith it'll get better have faith in what have faith in time have faith in my built my white blood cells to heal my arm have have no no have faith in God the God that by his very word created what you can stand on has got to be powerful enough for whatever situation you're facing your next point this one's fun faith is more than knowing about God faith is more than knowing about God now if you're in the book of Hebrews I want you to turn to the very next book in the Bible so go from Hebrews and turn to James James chapter 2 and we're going to look at verse 19 and 20a he really gets into it you say you have faith for you believe that there is one God good for you even the demons believe this and they tremble in terror how foolish I know people tell me all the time do you have faith oh I believe in God congratulations that doesn't answer my question if this was the new international bill version it would go woohoo do you oh oh I believe in God great so do the demons and they're still going to hell knowledge about God does not a healthy faith make you can know tons of things about God and Nelson that's one of the dangers of studying apologetics if you don't study with the right heart you can know tons of arguments about God you can know how to defend that God created the world you can know how to defend the supremacy of Jesus you can learn a lot from books but if that knowledge does not take the 12 inch translation to your heart and help build up your faith then that knowledge is no good to you because even the demons know that there is a God I'll give you another one they know there's a judgment day they know there's a hell and they know they're screwed now here's that's the big question for all of us Jackie do you know about God or do you have faith in God there must be a difference now does that not mean Lynette that that which we know can build up our faith absolutely but it is built on top of the foundation that substructure of faith alone all that we know about God should be built on top of our belief in him if not that's how you get college professors that can teach theology they don't believe in I have a really great friend ended up going to school for religion ended up getting a master's degree in theology and talked himself right out of believing in God because his knowledge was not based on his faith his knowledge was just based on himself and unfortunately he began to learn more and more and more and went oh yeah I've been leaving and he just told me at one point it's just a lie bill because I'm sorry that you're not smart enough to see that that's what he told me he said I'm sorry you're not smart enough to see that and I said I don't necessarily know if it has anything to do with intellect it has to do with my knowledge was built on top of my faith and yours wasn't that's not my fault I said plus I don't have a master's degree in religion so you probably read a couple books that I haven't read yet but there's a big danger in mistaking knowledge about God for faith in God and I really hope that you're here this morning and you'll examine that do you just know about God or at the end of the day when you dig through it all are you standing on a firm foundation of believing in him knowing about about God is not the same as having faith in God going to church is not the same as having faith in God reading a Bible is not the same as having faith in God knowing about God will not save you the demons give us a great example of that Sam they know about God and they are still going to hell so you can go to church your entire life you can sit there and be able to answer questions and know about God and you will still go to hell and I don't mean that I want you to do that I mean that is the truth of what it means to have faith which brings me to my last point we are saved by faith that is the crux of sola fide by faith alone take a look at this verse from Romans chapter 3 27 and 28 in the new living can we boast then that we have done anything to be accepted by God no because our acquittal is not based on obeying the law it is based on faith so we are made right with God through faith and not by obeying the law now obviously ray this is paul here he is writing to the Romans in the first century and the law there does literally mean the Jewish law from the old testament God's law and the rabbinical law that's sitting on top of that remember all the rabbis over the years had given their interpretations of it and they had given themselves additional tasks to do that was stacked on top of God's law and that's called the law but the law never justified anyone in God's eyes the law never saved the law the whole point of the law was to show us how much we needed God's salvation because the law doesn't save in our modern day context I could say it this way can we boast then that we have done anything to be accepted by God no because our acquittal is not based on our activities or actions at church it is based on faith so we are made right with God through faith not how much we go to church or put anything in that we are made right by God not how much we give in the offering we are made right through faith not how many bible verses we memorize we are made right through faith not how many hours a day we read our bible we are made right through faith not fill in the blank how many different churches you've been a member of in your lifetime and this is this is this is probably the second biggest danger in confusing activity with faith I want you to be fully engaged members of our church I do because I believe that fully engaged people build the kind of relationships it takes to grow their faith you know I believe those times I can sit down and have coffee and we can talk and we can deepen our relationship we're deepening each other's faith giving you the ability to grow in areas you wouldn't be able to grow in but here's the big danger if you begin to think well I go to church you know it's 52 weeks in a year I miss a couple so you know I go like 48 times a year Jesus sees me 48 times a year at church good right he's gonna remember me I throw big offerings every now and then Jesus knows why is this so important let's go all the way back to 1600s indulgences Jackie you didn't have to go to church you could give enough money and buy your own forgiveness or the forgiveness of your family members who had previously died how many people do you know today and nobody points fingers and nobody say names before I finish this question how many people do you know today or maybe people you know of that have mistaken their activities about church or about bible reading or about the worship team or the children's ministry or the youth ministry and they've mistaken that which they do at church and replace that with their actual faith in God the gigantic pillar that had to come out of the reformation Dan there is nothing you can do that will save you in fact let's see where I put it is it Isaiah Jack that all the best of our actions are as filthy rags I think that's an Isaiah right 60 60 I was gonna say 6061 somewhere in there in the book of Isaiah read the whole thing you'll find it there's a verse and and I cannot remember the reference right now but forgive me but the verse says that even the best of our actions are as filthy rags to God right we can't work hard enough to earn God's love we earn it simply by having faith in him it's a paradox you can't earn it but you can receive it you can't buy it but you can take it you can be given it the whole point of faith alone coming out of the reformation is the church was trying to do all these other things these indulgences and activities and all these other things to tell you Doug if you'll just do this in three easy payments of 1995 with four dollars shipping and handling you can be saved and I know that sounds ridiculous today right sounds super ridiculous but what if I flip the script a little bit if you just go to church every week and give your offering tell the pastor he did a great sermon and read your bible every now and then you can be saved that second statement ought to be just as ridiculous as the first but it sounds a whole lot different your activity in our church or any church will not save you as much as I want you to be involved because I want you to grow Winifred I think we both know there's a difference between being saved and growing in your faith don't confuse the activities that help you grow for the actual action of being saved we are saved by faith alone sola fide that is so important today with as many churches that want to have these other legalistic systems of practice so do me a favor pull out your connection card I know pastor Jack introduced you to it and today I think I got mostly c3 veterans so you guys know what we're about to do here take a look at the front of your connection card make sure your name is on it and a couple people have said you know I've been moving I have a new email address there is a little box right up here that just says change in contact information if you have anything new new phone number if you change your cell carrier you know you get the text messages from the church that's based on the company your cell phone is with I've started getting a bunch of them start bouncing back either you change your number or you blocked me or something I don't know but I'm so tired of spam from the church tell pastor builder shut up now but if you have any change in your contact information at any point please just check the box at the top of the card and give us the new email address new phone number new whatever if you all of a sudden you get a new birthday please let me know about that that'd be cool I'm trying to figure out how I can do that my birthday is just so close to thanksgiving all the time and let's take a look at the back a couple things this week under next steps this week I will examine what kind of faith I have what is the substructure the foundation at the bottom of the faith that you have currently been living do you have faith in faith do you have faith in activity do you have faith in god number two this week I will put faith into action maybe there's something in your workplace you can do maybe when you see your family this week there's something you can do to actually put that faith under your feet and take a step it can be as simple as inviting somebody to church inviting them to a bible study asking them if you can pray with them it can be a lot of different things people I don't know the kind of people that god has put in your life but you do oh I just want you to say this simple prayer when you're when you're about to start your day lord give me eyes of faith show me the opportunities that you've already put in my life ray I'm not telling you you got to like quit your job and move to Zimbabwe to be a missionary to serve god there's someone in your life right now that you could minister to but you just may be blinders on oblivious to that possibility third one I will help or I would like help building my doctrinal foundation now what does that mean because Melian I went round and round trying to figure out how to get this next step to fit in that little spot the hugest thing that came out of the reformation was Christians being able to make decisions and defend their faith from outside influences because they had a clear doctrinal understanding of what they believed faith alone that's what we talked about this morning we're saved by grace alone you can't earn forgiveness it is by the very nature of god's grace these pillars when you put them all together begin to build a fence for you Angelina that fence is designed to protect you from outside influence as well as help you make decisions moving forward Fred when you come across an idea that idea should be measured against pull out that tape measure the doctrine that you believe in if you don't know what you believe how can you defend your faith from bad influences how can you use it to make good decisions you know what I mean so if you want to have a one-on-one conversation we could talk about the five solos the five solos are a great place to start they're just five statements faith and we don't have to talk about them in latin let's talk about them in english faith alone scripture alone scripture alone is a huge one I can't wait till we get there how many people have have whittled away and taken bites out of how important the word of god is if you do not know if you even have these foundational beliefs or if you have questions about them I want you to mark that on your connection card we will we'll either get together if there's enough of you we'll have a class and we'll have a class and just go over why these five things are so important but I can tell you this if you could start building your doctrinal foundation of your life on these five pillars you will be set moving forward all you got to do is pick out the drapes and the window dresses and you'll be good to go then you can see there I will memorize Romans chapter 3 verse 28 on the right hand side a couple things that are upcoming the c3 book club young adults burgers and billiards on the 12th the mister and mrs goes shooting I've now got to change the date the identify class is coming up if you do not know what your spiritual gifts are and you are currently a member of the church I want you to consider coming to that identify class if you are not a member of the church I want you to sign up for the next discover class which should be in another month and a half I'm trying to alternate them because we're a smaller church it's not like we're going to have five people in a given month that want to become members but the identify class will help you learn about what spiritual gifts are and then there's an assessment test you will walk out the door knowing what your personal spiritual gifts are why is that important Nelson two reasons number one knowing more about how God built you will help you to mature quicker number two it'll also help you decide what areas you could volunteer in that will be more beneficial for you everybody thinks that the whole job of the pastor is just to rank at roust everybody into volunteering the problem is Lynette what happens if I ask you to volunteer in an area that you don't like what happens is you get burned out and then you end up leaving the church because nobody's created a really good way to go pastor I want to break from this that's the whole point of learning about who you are how God has made you you'll be able to know not just how to fit into our church but how you fit into the overall body in a much better way so do me a favor take a quick look there's some teams there um at the very bottom make sure you got your name and everything on the front in church I greatly appreciate your time this morning pastor jack you be up