All right, we are going to be continuing our end of days series this morning. If you've not been here for all of end of days, that's okay. What we are doing is we are taking a look at what the Bible says about the end of the world. The Bible does have a lot to say about what is going to happen when this creation fades away, and so we've been examining that over the past few weeks. You can of course catch up, you can find the end of days messages on our church website, which is conveniently located right here on the front of your bulletin right under the logo, c3family.org. You can also find them in the C3 Connect app that Melanie told you about earlier. I'm trying to make sure that I stay very focused on and double checking the microphone, making sure those recordings work, making sure I get them edited and uploaded quickly, because I know there's a lot of people that have been interested in this series and this teaching topic. So where we're at to give you a little bit of breakdown, where did we start from? In our very first week, we talked about the promises. God made certain promises in the Old Testament to his people, the Hebrews, or what we today call Israel, and those promises are still outstanding. So just like you build a puzzle at home, right? What's the first thing you do when you pull a puzzle out of the box? You find the corner pieces and you find all those straight pieces and you build your framework for how to do that. Well that's our framework for the end of days. Somebody tell me one of the four covenants that's the first part of our frame. The Palestinian covenant, that's great. God promised land to his people. Give me another one. The Abrahamic covenant. God promises a nation to Abraham. What's the third one? The Davidic covenant. God promises a forever king will come from the line of David. And what's the fourth covenant? Somebody said it new. The new covenant. This is the new covenant in my blood. This is Jesus in the New Testament. So we've got these four covenants that establish for us certain things have to happen. Then we saw the rapture. All of the church age believers in Jesus are raptured up from the earth in one shot. Then we looked at the tribulation. Seven years where things get really really bad. At the end of those seven years, the second coming of Christ. Jesus physically returns to earth, but this time he returns as a conquering king. He sets up his kingdom and last week we talked about the earthly kingdom or some call it the millennial kingdom of Jesus where Jesus rules on earth from Jerusalem as king physically on earth for a thousand years. When those thousand years come to an end, Satan is released from his prison in the abyss and he's allowed to go out for a certain amount of time to tempt the world. He actually gathers an army and tries I think to pull Kevin one last military offensive to attack God's people in God's city and then today we are going to talk about what happens after that. You'll notice on the back of your bulletin it looks a lot like this. It says end of days the final judgments. Now every week Fred, every week at C3 our messages have a key thought that kind of keeps everything going. The key thought for this series is the end of the world is a series of events and Diane I've pretty much explained to you so far how many different things we've looked at that are all included in the end times. So I want you to dispel the idea in your brain that the end of the world is like you see it in the movies. Terry it's not a you know a one out one day period of time where the hero is going to come in with a mythical magical sword and and the whole world is going to end in 24 hours. In fact so far we've already been through 1007 years worth of end time stuff before we ever get to today. Now our message today is about the final judgments. This is probably what most people think of as judgment day right. Most people when you think about the end of the world oh there's going to be a judgment day. There is a day a fixed point in eternity future in which God will pass his judgments but notice I said judgments with an s. There are actually three distinct final judgments that will happen after everything we've talked about. So Kathy I'm going to give you your first blank and then we're going to get into scripture and take a look at that. So here's your first blank this morning. Satan and his angels are judged. Satan and his angels are judged. You can fill those those blanks in right there on the back of your bulletin. If you brought your bible and you want to follow with me this morning please turn to the book of Revelation. Revelation chapter 20. So we've made it through a significant portion of the book of Revelation. Revelation chapter 20 and we're going to look at verse 10. Revelation chapter 20 verse 10 and I have it for you on the screen in the new living translation. So this is revelation 2010 in the new living. This is what it says. Then the devil who had deceived them, them being the army that he tried to get to assault Jerusalem, was thrown into the fiery lake of burning sulfur joining the beast and the false prophet. There they will be tormented day and night forever. Little bit of angelic history. Back in the time before creation there was an angel who is commonly referred to as Lucifer and he planned a rebellion against God Almighty. He lost and in his punishment for leading the rebellion against God Almighty he was cast out of heaven. Pop quiz, where was Lucifer cast when he left heaven? Earth. That is exactly right. Satan did not transport directly to hell. The concept, the myth that Satan sits on like a red like scully looking throne in hell and he just sends out little tweets to his demons all over earth and they do his bidding is completely false. It is not true. Satan was cast out of heaven here to earth. We see that in the very beginning of the Garden of Eden. He tempted Adam and Eve. The entire time that creation has existed after the what we call the angelic fall, because it's not the fall, the fall was man's fall. After the angelic fall Satan was here on earth. It is not until right now and of course last week we did look at Satan will be bound for a thousand years in the abyss but he's re-released to come back to earth. Glenna it's not until here at the first of the final three judgments in the end of days that Satan is finally cast into the lake of fire or what we call hell for the first and only final time. There is no pass go collect two hundred dollars. This is the go straight to jail moment. This is the go to jail for the end of the game. Thou shalt not roll doubles to get out. Like this is the final judgment of Satan and his angels. Why is Satan being judged? I often get asked the question well pastor Bill if God forgave humanity, God sent his son. It's a great story right? Jesus. God sent his son and Judy, Jesus came and he walked and he lived as a human being and he died on the cross and he shed his blood and yippee yay humanity has forgiveness and it does and I don't mean discount any of that but Jesus's blood does not apply to the angelic fall. It only applies to humanity's fall. So whilst you and I we sit here today we have the privilege of accepting salvation in Jesus. The angelic host that fell at the original fall does not. Also in here we see the devil implied underneath of him in his authority. Judy are all of the angels that went with him. So if you read your bibles you will hear that one third of the angels followed Lucifer in his deceit in his rebellion against God. So one third of the angels fell to earth. If you do the quick math that means there are still two angels in heaven for every angel on earth. That's how thirds work right? You take a third away you leave two thirds two thirds is bigger than one third. There are still two thirds of the angelic host. Now Dustin I do get asked how many angels are in heaven? I have no clue. The bible does not say the total number. Was that your question? You just write that down? How many angels are in heaven? Fred let me be honest with you. The bible does not say exactly how many angels are in heaven. We do get a few references like um does everyone remember when Jesus was on the cross and scripture says he could have called legions of angels right? Well that word legion does refer to a specific amount of Roman soldiers in a unit. It refers to a thousand soldiers. So if the Lord had the ability to call to himself legions well there's at least more than two thousand. The problem is that word could have also been used more symbolically of junk load of angels. New international bill version. How many angels are in heaven? Lotta lotta. So you're not really sure if what's multitudes right? We see at the birth of Jesus there was a multitude the word host even in the Greek when you say there's a host of people that's like they're a bunch. There's a bunch of angels. So how many angels are left in heaven at this point? I don't really know but I can tell you whatever the number of angels are in heaven half came to earth or however many demons are on earth twice as much are in heaven. But here at the first of these three judgments we finally see satan and his angels are cast into heaven. Now who goes with him? Take a look at the third line of text on your screen. Joining the beast the antichrist and the false prophet. As a quick review for those of you who weren't here when we talked about it the antichrist will be a human being. He will be the leader or will eventually become the leader of a nation. He will make a large group of nations come together. He will eventually be the totalitarian dictator during the end of times. He gets cast into hell along with the false prophet. The false prophet is a human being. The false prophet is a human who leaves people in worshiping the antichrist as if he were god. Amanda the antichrist is going to set himself in the temple in Jerusalem to be worshiped as if he were god and the false prophet will be the leader of the people worshiping him. Just like Aaron was appointed the first prophet and he led people in worshiping the one true god the antichrist or replacement christ will be a replacement of that. So what's the first judgment? The first judgment satan and his angels are judged. Here's point number two. Humanity is judged. This is the dun dun dun moment that most people are expecting on judgment day. Humanity is judged. We're going to continue reading in Revelation chapter 20. This time we're going to look at verses 11 through 15. So pretty much picking up right where we left off. Revelation 20, 11 through 15 also in the new living translation on your screen. And I saw this is John speaking of his vision. He was called up to heaven to witness the end of days and I saw a great white throne and the one sitting on it. The earth and the sky fled from his presence but they found no place to hide. I saw the dead both great and small standing before God's throne and the books were opened. Including the book of life and the dead were judged according to what they had done as recorded in the books. That's okay. I know you're reading along. The sea gave up its dead and death and the grave gave up their dead and all were judged according to their deeds. Then death and the grave were thrown into the lake of fire. This lake of fire is the second death and anyone whose name was not found recorded in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire. This Dan, this is the judgment day that humanity fears. This is the judgment day when we as human beings stand before God. Now this judgment is comp- can you skip back one screen for me? This judgment is commonly referred to as the great white throne judgment. The reason for that is in the first few lines of this verse right here and I saw a great white throne and one sitting on it. The great white throne judgment is the judgment of unsaved people. Now how do I know that? Well Kathy let's let's now I gotta start tying things together here right? Who left earth at the rapture? The church right? Then the great white throne then who came back with Jesus at his second coming? The church. Jesus then set up his millennial kingdom. Who else did he resurrect to bring into the millennial kingdom when it started? Old testament saints and tribulation saints. So if you do the math Fred everybody who got saved before Jesus, everybody who got saved after Jesus, everybody who got saved during the tribulation have all been resurrected at this point in history. A history future, eternity future technically. History future is kind of a misnomer. The old testament saints have been resurrected given their new bodies. The church got its new bodies at the rapture. All of the tribulation saints who were executed during the tribulation for belief in Jesus, they all got resurrected and they lived on earth with Jesus for a thousand years. The only people left non-resurrected at this moment are unsaved people. Terry because everybody else was a part of the Messiah's kingdom for the last thousand years which is super important that you understand that fact as we move forward. Now quick quick note here you said the earth and the sky fled from his presence but they found nowhere to hide. This is not a literal the earth and the sky tried to fly across the cosmos to to get away from God. What it is? The sheer power of God's awesome presence as he sits on the throne of judgment. Those of you who are my Tuesday nighters right we studied the bible we watched the movie when now I'm gonna really try to tie this all together for you. When Jesus was being judged Pontius Pilate came out and you remember the scene in the movie they brought a special chair and they sat it in the place and what was that called the place of judgment and then when Pontius Pilate sat in the chair that was in the place of judgment he had the ruling legal authority to judge. He had the authority over here right but this this place is the place of judgment. This is the great white throne of God. The great white throne God has the power and the authority to judge at any given moment but when he sits on that chair just think about a judge in our normal court system what do you have to do when a judge walks in a room right what do they say all rise why because the judge is assuming his place of judgment the judge gets his name because the job function that he does in this moment the great white throne is the place of judgment and when God awesome father sits in the place of judgment Julie this is a frightening moment this is an awesome powerful incredible moment that the God of all creation is now sitting in the place of judgment then of course we see the dead are raised and again this is all the unsaved or unregenerated dead these are people who will not get into heaven because we've already resurrected all the people who were saved the only people who are non-resurrected at this point are unsaved now one other point I want to make on this screen before we get to the next the books because this probably come up as a question so let me try to answer it now and then if you have an additional question you can put on your thing what are the books that are open well the first thing we see here is you see on the second and last line the book of life what is the book of life Amanda the book of life is the recording of every name of every person who will be saved that makes sense right the book of life the book of those who are granted entrance into heaven the book of life however look at the last line and the judge the dead were judged according to what they had done as recorded in the books now take me to the next screen there is another book because he said books right judy that's plural there is another book that is also present at the great white throne judgment that is not well I'm gonna say it's not necessary but anyone whose name was not found recorded in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire so there's nobody at this judgment that's in this book you get that right if we resurrected all the church-age saints at the at the rapture then when jesus comes back and he starts his messianic kingdom we resurrect the old testament saints and anybody who believed in jesus during a tribulation judy that's everybody that's been saved we have accounted for every human being who has accepted christ during their lifetime the only people left to be judged are those who did not accept jesus therefore the book of life is not opened to check and see if their name is really there fred their name is not there but their name not being there is part of the evidence of judgment does that make sense their name not in the book of life is the evidence that they did not accept christ but there's another book they said that these people will be judged what according to their deeds whilst it is not referred to in this way most theologians terry they refer to this as the book of deeds the book of life is the book recorded of those who have eternal life the book of deeds when we when we turn this will be scary right we turn to the chapter of terrence eaten and we turn to the book of deeds like whoa that's gonna be some scary reading that might not be able to be made into a movie might have to be on show like that's some scary movies right there when the book of deeds is opened as you stand before the great throne of judgment fred your deeds are read back to you in this life super important you understand it is your life on earth that is recorded it is not your life let's say let's say we die during this lifetime and jesus terry's another thousand years you are only judged on your earthly life's deeds once your life on this earth has expired your chapter in the book of deeds is done you don't get to add to it you don't get to take away from it so what are the two books that are opened at the great white throne judgment first is the book of life and again nobody at the great white throne judgments in the book of life because we've already resurrected everybody who was saved but them not being in the book of life dan is the evidence of condemnation so then we open the deeds why the deeds then why the deeds i had this question as i was preparing for this morning i went well wait a minute if i'm going to hell because i didn't accept jesus what do my deeds have to do with anything that that that was a big question for me so i i sent the studying and i went to scouring and i came upon this conclusion and i'll give you the conclusion i came to when we as the church faced the judgment seat of christ remember that after the after the rapture we faced the judgment seat of christ which was kevin when our deeds were recorded what did that do for us as the church at the judgment seat of christ the church was offered reward based upon their deeds on earth likewise the book of deeds is like the level of punishment if that makes sense like imagine there are levels i don't want to get into dante's seven levels of hell that's fictional but imagine the level of torment if show you so you say the level of torment to juxtapose the level of reward at the judgment seat of christ that same book of deeds the recorded deeds of your life if you are not saved and on your way to heaven because you'd already be in the messianic kingdom the book of deeds will judge your level of torment in hell that is what the two books do i just need to make very certain no one who is saved faces the great white throne judgment we have already been raptured i know it's the common it preaches good right it's the common belief that you're going to stand before god and jesus is going to walk up and he's going to put a hand shoulder god father this is one of mine the problem is it just doesn't track we've already been on earth with jesus for a thousand years in his millennial kingdom we don't face the great white the great white throne judgment we're already with god the other thing all of these people do get their glorified bodies at this point remember we already got those the church got the glorified bodies at the rapture the old testament saints tribulation saints they got their new glorified bodies at the beginning of the messianic kingdom now is when all of the unregenerated souls also get their glorified bodies right before they go to hell so that's super fun let's go to your next point as we're all super excited here's the good news there's no second chance at the end oh forgive me fighting a respiratory infection with a passion there is no second chance at the end now if you're following along with me in your bibles please stick your finger stick your bible i mean stick your finger stick your pen grab your neighbor stick their finger in your bible at revelation 20 hold on to it because we're coming back but right now i want to take you to the gospel of luke the gospel of luke third book in the new testament matthew mark luke chapter 6 and we're going to look at a parable of jesus so this is luke chapter 6 we're going to read from verse 19 to verse 31 again also in the new living translation so these are the words of jesus jesus said there was a certain rich man who was splendidly clothed in purple and fine linen who lived in luck in each day in luxury at his gate lay a poor man named lazarus who was covered with sores as lazarus lay there longing for the scraps from the rich man's table the dogs would come and lick his open source finally the poor man died and was carried by angels to be with abraham the rich man also died and was buried and his soul went to the place of the dead there in torment he saw abraham in the far distance with lazarus at his side the rich man shouted father abraham have some pity send lazarus over here to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue i am in anguish in these flames but abraham said to him son remember that during your lifetime you had everything you wanted and lazarus had nothing so now he is here being comforted and you are in anguish and besides there is a great chasm separating us no one can cross over to you from here and no one can cross over to us from there then the rich man said please father abraham at least send him to my father's home for i have five brothers and i want him to warn them so that they don't end up in this place of torment but abraham said moses and the prophets have warned them your brothers can read what they wrote the rich man replied no father abraham but if someone is sent to them from the dead they will repent of their sins and turn to god but abraham said if they won't listen to moses and the prophets then they won't be persuaded even if someone rises from the dead now this is commonly referred to as the parable of lazarus and the rich man first thing i need to note julie not the same lazarus that jesus raised from the dead at bethany two different guys same first name not everybody name bill's the same not everybody name lazarus is the same so just get those two stories separate in your mind doug lazarus of bethany brother of mary and martha not the same guy that jesus is talking about in this parable with that understanding there are a few conclusions that we can draw here and just sort of circle that section in your bible the the main point i want you to see is this rewind for me uh go back i think it's two screens go back one more okay forward forward one more there it is your third line no one can cross over to you from here and no one can cross over to us from there jesus is speaking about the difference in eternal destination and he is clearly saying there is no cross thoroughfare so what does that mean fred remember i told you about the book of life listen to this i hope this makes your day i hope this makes everybody's day the book of life contains the name of every single person who's got granted access into heaven but did you know there is not a single recorded scripture of someone's name being written in to the book of life there are six or seven verses that talk about a name being blotted out but there is not a single recorded passage in which a name is actually written in so what's the conclusion your name's already there but if you live your life and resist salvation in christ at the moment of your death your name is blotted out but dan he's got your name right now that is the great news of the book of revelation kevin every person who has breath in their lungs still has the opportunity to be saved but if we live our life and we resist the holy spirit and we reject the message of jesus at the moment of our death you cannot cross over there is no more second chance when we reach eternity when this life is passed the actions of this life directly affect the presence in the next life and as jesus put it there ain't no way to cross over in fact i believe i entitled your five minute moment for this this day called the undead messenger because that's what he's asking for right the rich man saying no no no send him a zombie send him a zombie to tell him about no no no no no that's what he's asking for right if someone would raise from the dead now how hilarious is it that the one who is you feel me right you know exactly where i'm going the one who is telling us this story is the only one who has ever raised from the dead you got that right these are the words of jesus the person telling us this about the afterlife amanda the only person in recorded history to actually raise from the dead nice little symmetry there once this life is over no one can cross over to you from here and no one can cross over to us from there now amanda take me to the next screen please but abraham said moses and the prophets have warned them he's talking about holy scripture at the point jesus is speaking in history right now the new testament hasn't been written yet now the new testament hasn't been written yet how do i know that because jesus is still alive jesus is still teaching his ministry is still going on so when we refer to moses and the prophets have warned them fred he's not really referring to the old testament as only half of the bible that's all scripture is right now historically jesus is in the middle of his ministry that means jesus's ministry is not over we haven't seen the holy spirit come in axe scripture as we know it in the new testament has not been written yet so what jesus is saying is if i were to put it in our modern day context today dan i could say we have scripture to warn us and then look at the guy's reply no no no no scripture is not good enough but if someone was sent to them from the dead then they would repent of their sins and turn and then what does he say if they won't listen to scripture they won't be persuaded even if someone raises from the dead i know plenty of people today who even after we have evidence that jesus christ rose from the dead it is a historically recorded fact and we have holy scripture i mean how many of you have holy scripture sitting in your laps right now whether it like me it's you know it's on something digital or it's on terry on something physical we have recorded scripture we have the evidence of the resurrection of the son of god and people still resist the reality is there will always be people who resist god but the main point for this this part of the the message is there are going to be no second chances at the end let's take a look at the third judgment that will occur yep what did i get mike oh i got the one in the wrong spot i'm sorry it's chapter 16 i apologize thank you so what did you say doug it's chapter 16 not six okay sorry about that put the one on the wrong wrong little dyslexia of the brain all right creation is judged we've seen on judgment day there are three judgments first satan and his angels second humanity nelson here third creation itself is judged now we're going to look at the book of second peter just further towards the end of your new testament first second peter first second third john jude revelation second peter chapter three verses five six and seven second peter chapter three verses five through seven in the new living said this god made the heavens long ago by the word of his command and he brought the earth out from the water and surrounded it with water then he used the water to destroy the ancient world with a mighty flood by the same word the present heavens and earth have been stored up for fire but they are being kept for the day of judgment when ungodly people will be destroyed now if we go back into our old testament there's this little story of a guy named noah and he built a little boat and he saved a bunch of animals remember that whole story children learn about it in sunday school the word god did already destroy most of the earth once he did it in the great flood of course we see in scripture that he saved not only two of every kind of animal but he saved noah and how many people were on the ark anybody know nope close is eight is eight noah his three sons and each of them had a wife so basically four couples noah and his wife shem hem jayfeth their wives there were eight people on the ark eight human beings on the ark and there are also animals on the ark what we see here nelson is god by the same word look at that was at the fifth line sixth line right in the middle and by the same word what word the word that god used to create creation in the beginning and what does it say and god spoke let there be light look go back to the creation story what did god do god spoke every time he made something he spoke let there be light and he saw and it was good he spoke let the waters gather together let there be land let there be veg he spoke everything it was the power of his word that created creation and that same word that same powerful creative content is reserving the heavens and earth for their final destruction and this time it will be by fire why do we have to destroy creation great question thank you for asking let me try to answer it because humanity was not the only person affected by sin at the fall the entire earth was scarred how do i know that go back and look at the fall of adam and eve there were certain punishments that were dished out punishments to adam punishments to eve included in the punishments to adam all of a sudden the earth would no longer just naturally give up its fruit to him he would have to work and toil and there would be thorns and thistles that's all part of sins sins um poisoning if you will of creation itself so the third and final judgment that happens in the end of days is we see the angelic fallen angelic host is judged we see that unsaved humanity is judged and finally maria creation itself is judged and just like those who are in the lake of fire fire will be the element of destruction for the creation before we get to the last point i'm going to try to end on some good news i know this is some like really next level scary stuff but you've got to see the whole picture which is why fire will be the element of destruction and i'm going to give you your fourth blank and kind of talk about these two things together or your fifth blank your last blank is this a new creation is made a new creation is made i don't want to end a message with like a whole bunch of just judgment and destruction because that doesn't seem very encouraging for your week it's true it's straight true but i want to give you something encouraging a new creation is made now please turn with me to revelation chapter 21 actually the second to last chapter in the bible so revelation 21 we're just going to look at the first two verses revelation 21 verses one and two and again it'll be for you on the screen in the new living translation amanda that's you she i can look she's sitting here reading her bible like this like wait you gotta give me screen here's revelation chapter 21 verses one and two then i saw a new heaven and a new earth for the old heaven and the old earth had disappeared and the sea was also gone and i saw the holy city the new jerusalem coming down from god out of heaven like a bride beautifully dressed her husband the final of the three judgments will be on creation itself god will use the element of fire now you got to remember you're talking about somebody who lived in the first century but who was given a vision of the future some people have interpreted that fire to be nuclear holocaust the fire the heat of a nuclear weapon when it detonates other people have interpreted that to be the sun explodes and solar heat and solar wind erase planet earth can i tell you which one of those is more correct no i can tell you what scripture says god says that fire will be the element of destruction right before he makes a new one now the new is what i want to key in on here before you dustin this is super important then i saw a new heaven and a new earth the word new that is used here that john chooses to describe the new heaven and the new earth carries with it with it the connotation of fresh unused untainted pure just think about those words fresh unused untainted pure what tainted the first creation sin right god's judgment on creation because of that poisoning of sin is its destruction and then the word that he uses to describe the newness of creation is a word that literally means fresh unused untainted and pure this is not a facelift lanette we don't just scrape off the top couple hundred feet worth of earth and then god just sort of read this is not a paint job okay this is not pimp my earth okay just saying god literally destroys that was a really good reference by the way i gotta remember that god literally destroys creation what was that exhibit this is not a retread or a recreation or a remodel this this is a brand new creation right it's got that new earth smell a little a little shiny evergreen tree flinging back and forth and that god makes something brand new fresh untainted pure why is it untainted because there is no more sin the devil and his angels were the first judgment all of sinful humanity was the second judgment then we are with god we are with jesus in the holy city in jerusalem in Jerusalem god wipes the slate clean with fire amanda the same power that created the world in genesis recreates a new earth so important i want you to understand not a retread the word here does not mean the connotation that god purifies or cleanses the earth whilst you know what and that would sound really good right i could get up here and i could wax about how the blood of jesus purifies your soul and so therefore god is going to purify the earth it just doesn't work the words in the bible don't lead to that conclusion it is a brand new creation i want to touch on a word uh hopefully something you saw here third line and the c was also gone well i'm going to give you there are two basic interpretations of this text i'm going to give them both to you and miss diane you can you can run with either one i read probably like i must have read five or six or eight different theological breakdowns of these two verses and there is some differing of opinion on what why is the c gone c s e a as in large body of water two reasons number one go back to the way god made creation before sin before the fall before the flood he separated the earth the land from the waters right so there was water on earth but it had never rained until noah because there was an expanse of water in the atmosphere that covered the earth like i've never seen it so that's my best description but water was the element that god used to cleanse the earth of its sinfulness way back in genesis so it could be that there's no need for a c anymore because nelson there's no need for a cleansing anymore god doesn't have to redo everything that humanity made stakes because we have already been fully cleansed of sin and purified so that's reason that's interpretation number one interpretation number two if you stick only in the book of revelation and you look at what does the c s e a symbolize almost every time the c is mentioned it symbolizes the enemy of god the beast comes out of the sea the antichrist attacks from across the sea the sea is a symbol in revelation of an enemy or an opposing force and when we get to the new creation glenna there is no more enemy there is no more opposing force now both of those things kind of tie together with the idea of sin so i'm going to give you both interpretations to tell you honestly amanda i'm not sure which one is more correct they both are scripturally founded they are both the opinions of guys who i trust and believe they study scripture for a living like they write books and commentaries these guys are no joke they got a lot of letters in their degrees but you know what kevin they're not god every time you read a commentary you got to understand the person who wrote the commentary is not as holy as the man who wrote the bible the holy spirit is still in the word of god so can i tell you for sure i i'm sure i know which one of those two interpretations is more correct no i can't but i can tell you what scripture says there will be a topical logical difference between our new home on new earth and the earth that exists today dan that's what i'm safe saying biblically for some reason there will be a difference in the topical logical makeup of the new earth now i like going to the beach so i really hope jesus makes sand but i i have to be true to the text of scripture there will be a difference in the way creation works dustin am i sure that that has to point to the flood no am i sure that has to point to the anti-christ no i'm sure that that's what the bible says and sometimes especially as we kevin as we study end times we study other things sometimes i have to give myself credit i'm only a mortal human being and i have to rely on the holy spirit to illuminate my mind to understand his word terry there's just not a lot said like that's the only sentence i get and it's got what five words in it i don't want it to six words excuse me i want to take those six words and kathy teach you something that i'm not totally sure is there so i'll say those six words will tell me for sure there's a topical logical difference in the new in the new earth glenn i don't want to take it any further than that because i don't feel the text warrants being justified to be sure that i would be correct but i've given you the two the two major opinions on that matter you can take it as you see it why is studying all of this important again let me share something i shared a few weeks ago how different would it be watching the super bowl if you knew the outcome of the game studying the end times tells us what happens to sin what happens to the enemy what happens to jesus what happens to us the church what happens to national israel that god promised promises to it is important to understand god's plan and i would almost say it is also important to understand god's plan for you you know a lot of people want to talk about spiritual warfare and and praying and fighting the enemy the most important thing i could tell you is judy we fight from a place of win not a place of loss at the end of the day when i read the end of the book you know what i find out sin loses and jesus wins that simple sentence for me gives me the courage the power the authority the belief the faith to take one more step each day because i know at the end of the day my guy wins if you knew going into the super bowl who was going to win the game would be entertaining probably oh look at that hit oh did you see him miss that field goal like it would be an entertaining game to watch but ray would you be worried if your team was down in the points it's okay like how many times you said oh we'll turn it around nelson what if you knew what if you knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that your team was going to win wouldn't it change your confidence in how you lived watching that game that's why this study is so important when you know the end of the game you should live it day to day i know my guy wins i know we win i know i get to live on a thousand years when jesus comes back i know i get to witness whatever that topological difference is going to be in the new creation i don't know but guess what i'm gonna be there i'm gonna get to see it i'm gonna get to witness it how much how many more beautiful things god create a new creation i don't know but he's had the whole time he made this one to come up with new ideas and the god is nothing he is a creative god and he will continue to be creative in his new creation now do me a favor pull out your connection card every week at c3 i challenge you to take a next step i do not want this morning's message to just be encouraging i want it to be empowering i want you to do something this week to grow in your faith you can see there this week i will look up that's supposed to say one of the points not covenants i keep getting my templates mixed up one of the points from this morning's sermon this is a huge topic talking about the end times pick one look it up study it at home number two this week i will have a family bible study about this week's message shawn this is some next level stuff it's fun to get up and look in and pull out your bible study it at home looking with your family three i want help growing in my faith my calling in life is to help people in their relationship with god whether it's up here teaching god's word whether it's meeting you for coffee or milkshakes or cake or brownies like there's a pattern here okay you guys get that you know meeting you for any sort of sweet treat that's probably not good for you or bacon i will always bacon bacon is meat candy you know give me the opportunity to talk with you about where your faith is at now on the right hand side there you can see i have a question throughout this whole series i've been asking you what are your questions what are you not sure about what we've taught i'm going to take all of the questions that are submitted and in the final week of this series we are going to have an open table and we're going to discuss them the reason i'm asking you to give me your questions ahead of time is so i don't have to shoot off the cuff linet i'm relatively certain i can answer your question correctly but if you gave me that question and i had a week to study that question and make sure i had every available answer to that question my answers to your questions will be better so please if you have a question about anything we have covered in this series it doesn't have to be this morning's message if you go back and demand that you're thinking about the rapture and all of a sudden you think about something that you just don't get you put that question in there tell me what you want to re regroup or recover when we get there and i'll talk about it now you can see there send me info about beginning life jesus rededicating my life growing spiritually baptism church membership if you need to talk to me there's one there fill in that bubble i want to talk to the pastor about give me a heads up you know we're talking about crocheting we're talking about sports talking about recent news you know let me know what you want to talk about and which sweet treat we'll be eating while we talk about that i'll tell you why i want to talk about i want to talk to the pastor about brownies goes to the very top of the list like a prayer and discipleship and ice cream so do me a favor take a look over the back of your connection card if you have a question ask me let me know if you have a need if you have something i can help you with this week put it in there let me know once you've done that turn around on the front please make sure your name is on it this is how i take attendance this is how i know who came to church and who didn't i follow up and let people know that we missed them hey guess what we didn't see on sunday we missed you how you doing can we pray for you if you don't fill the card out forgive me my brain is not always great i may forget that i saw your beautiful face today i will not forget if you bring me brownies just sing all right um doug if you and your partner would come up here in a moment we're going to collect this morning's offering includes and conclude our service