We are going to conclude our worthless worship series this morning. Do me a favor, look at the back of your bulletin. It's going to look a little like that. I'm going to ask you if you'll follow along with me this morning. If you have not been here for all of worthless worship, Dan I'll just give you the quick fill in. What worthless worship is, is we have been looking at instances in the Word where God's people brought worship to Him, and Diane, God rejected it. And we've sort of started out every single message in this series with this thought. So I want to read it one more time so we can all sort of hone in on it together. Not all worship offered to God is accepted by Him. Not all worship offered to God is accepted by Him. We started first with the very first instance of worship, all the way back to the beginning of Genesis, Cain and Abel. And God received one and He rejected one. And then after the Moses story they made the golden calf on Mount Sinai. And then who remembers what we looked at last week? Anybody? It's the really, really obscure story from Leviticus that nobody ever bothers to read. Nahum and Abihu. Yep, and the coals, the strange fire, if you remember that word. That's right, we looked at that last week. And this week we're going to go all the way to the New Testament. So do me a favor, if you have your Bibles with you, whether they be physical or digital, turn or click with me to the book of Acts chapter 5. The book of Acts chapter 5 and the title of this morning's message is called Deceptive Worship. Deceptive Worship. At the beginning of Acts chapter 5 we're going to start reading it verse 1. We're going to meet a man named Ananias and his wife Sapphira. I have it here for you on the screen. Acts chapter 5 we're going to read verses 1 through 11 and this is the New Living Translation. So this is what it says. But there was a certain man named Ananias who with his wife Sapphira sold some property. He brought part of the money to the apostles claiming it was the full amount. With his wife's consent he kept the rest. Then Peter said, Ananias, why have you let Satan fill your heart? You lied to the Holy Spirit and you kept some of the money for yourself. The property was yours to sell or not sell as you wished. And after selling it, the money was also yours to give away. How could you do a thing like this? You weren't lying to us but to God. As soon as Ananias heard these words he fell to the floor and died. Everyone who heard about it was terrified. Then some young men got up, wrapped him in a sheet and took him out and buried him. About three hours later his wife came in not knowing what had happened. Peter asked her, was this the price you and your husband received for your land? Yes, she replied, that was the price. And Peter said, how could the two of you even think of conspiring to test the spirit of the Lord like this? The young men who buried your husband are just outside the door and they will carry you out too. Instantly she fell on the floor and died. When the young men came in and saw that she was dead, they carried her out and buried her beside her husband. Great fear gripped the entire church and everyone else who heard what had happened. This is a super, super great story. Not necessarily because, again, out of the four, you know Diane, we looked at four different instances of worthless worship and two of the four ended up with people dying in church. So we're just going to go ahead and transition to taking the offering really quick. No, just kidding. I want to go back through these 11 verses because there's something really important I want you to see about how deceptive Ananias and Sapphire were about their worship. So do me a favor, take a look at the back of your bulletin. Your first blank this morning is, their purpose was pure, but their steps were sinful. Their purpose was pure. Just give me a cup from out there and I'll fill it with water. Their purpose was pure, but their steps were sinful. I normally don't have four blanks in there, but there was no way to say that sentence really well without it. Ray, their purpose was pure, but their steps were sinful. Take a look at the first two verses from our passage this morning. There was a certain man named Ananias who with his wife Sapphira sold some property. Stop. If we were to read right there, Lena, we're fine, right? Is there money? Is there property? Is there money? Is there property they can do as they wish? No fault has happened yet. Then verse two. He brought part of the money to the apostles, also not wrong. If anyone would like to go and sell a piece of property and then donate the proceeds to the church, that's totally fine. Melvin, we're still in the green, we're still good. And then we get to the latter half of verse two. Claiming it was the full amount. And Tracy, here's the problem here. I think I've got to put myself in those shoes. Most of you know, Melanie and I are just starting to want to purchase a house here. So we're getting out in the housing market, and we're Googling this and MLSing that, and looking on this and that and the next thing. And so I've got to put myself in the shoes of Ananias and Sapphira. If I were a homeowner and I was going to sell a piece of property, TJ, I definitely think that I would give from the proceeds of that blessing to the church, whether it be this church or to a mission or to a ministry or buy Bibles for some foreign country. I would do that. Out of the goodness of my heart, how great God has been in my family, Diane, I would be moved to bless somebody with an installment of money like that. And I think at a base principle, that is exactly what Ananias and Sapphira are doing. Judy, they are moved to give to God out of a large blessing that they have. That's a perfect example of worship. That's great. It's pure, it's right, and it's not deceptive at all. The problem was not, and I got to say this very, very clearly so the recording gets it, the problem was not that they kept some of their own money. That is not the fault. Julia, the fault is they kept some of their money and lied about it. That's the problem. I've heard people, Sean, I've heard people try to exegete this passage, especially when it comes to taking offerings, and talk about why you should give it all to Jesus. And that's not the correct understanding of this passage. It preaches great. You know, I tell you all the time, Winifred, there's stuff in the Bible that preaches good, and it's still not true. This is one of those instances. Laz, the point of these two verses is not that they kept some of the money. As we see Peter saying in a minute, it was theirs. The property was theirs. When they sold it, the money was theirs. They had every inclination and freedom to do as they wanted to do with their money. Nelson, the problem is that whole claiming it was the full amount thing. I'm going to go ahead and sell a property for X amount of dollars, and I'm going to pull some money out, and I'm going to tell everybody that I only sold it for Y amount of dollars. Herein is where the deception begins. It wasn't about freedom, and it really isn't even about the amount of money. Notice in this entire story, the actual amount of money is never stated. Because Cindy, it doesn't matter if it was $10, $10,000, or $10 million. The amount of money is almost negligible. It's about the principle that's going on here. The principle is, I think that their purpose was pure. Sean, I've been blessed with this amount of money from selling a property. I want to pay it forward, and I want to bless someone. That's great. That's awesome. Let's just not lie about it. Then all of a sudden, the way they went about doing it, that's how the sin comes in. I've seen this in my own life. I've seen this in the lives of some of my friends. You start out with the best intentions of doing something for God, and then about halfway down the line, you go, Diane, how did I get here? Back here, way back over here, before I took those three steps, I had this perfect, pure intention. I was going to do everything the right way, integrity all the way. Then by the time we get over here, slowly my selfishness has creeped in. Slowly, I'm like, I'm going to cut a little corner here. I'm going to take a little off the edge here. That's really the hard way. This is the easy way. Then before you get to know it, you're in your way of doing something great for God. And, Dan, now you don't even look like one of God's kids. Because slowly, sin, and I would argue that all sin is based on selfishness, that selfishness and sinfulness, they creep in, and they taint the really pure things that we want to do. And therein is where this deceptive worship begins. It's little things. It's insidious. It's a little here. And you know what? Even if, Melanie and I were talking about this passage this week, oddly enough, because I was getting ready for my sermon, and she said something that was really good. I thought it was worth sharing and giving her the credit for it, because she said it right there. She said, you know what, Doug, they even could have, when they were selling the property, have pre-decided, let's give this money to the church. We're doing well. We've got our wine press over here, and our business over here, and Leo de Silla is doing really well. So let's go ahead and just give this to the church. And then the money comes in. All of a sudden, somebody hands you that $100,000 drachma check. And all of a sudden, I'm going, you know, we've been wanting to redo the bathroom, and you know, my chariot needs a new set of wheels, and you know, maybe some new shocks and a muffler. And all of a sudden, when you had the money in your hand, then, Tracy, all these ideas come into play. Well, you know, we could give most of it to the church. Angelina, I know we talked about giving it all, but you know, I'd really love a new shower or a wow, you know, a new computer would really help my business, you know. And we come up with these reasons to take away from our original motivations. I don't think when, and this is my opinion, but I don't think when I start out reading this story that these people are absolutely jaded crooks. I just don't see it. What I see is a man and a woman who sold a piece of property, and then Diane, they got to thinking about how nice it would be to have this or that or the next thing. And then we get to our next point here. Point number two, their pride got in their way. Their pride got in the way. Let's look at our next two verses. Then Peter said, Ananias, why have you let Satan fill your heart? Stop. Dan, the lips didn't even, the words didn't even leave his lips about giving the money, and all of a sudden Peter is coming down like a ton of bricks. Dan, why did you let Satan fill your heart? Like how bad do you have to do something for not to go, oops, I back slid. But Diane, I let Satan fill my heart. This is a serious motivation problem. You lied to the Holy Spirit and kept some of the money for yourself. Tim, why? Put yourself, I know this is really hard to imagine, but imagine you're at church. Okay? Imagine you're at church and somebody's talking, and you and your wife are about to give a sizable offering. If any one person were to sell a home, that's usually more than you would give on an average Sunday, at least for most people. So you're about to give a very large sizable offering in comparison to what you would normally give. Why lie about it? What's the advantage, Diane? Where's the advantage for lying about it? The only obvious advantage is I want the credit, I want other people to see how holy, how righteous, how sacrificial, how much holier than you I am, because TJ, I gave all of the proceeds from my property to Jesus. I am so much holier than the rest of you because I didn't need to keep any of it for myself. I am so much, and you know what Nelson, I want those amens. Amen! I want your respect. They are distracted because of pride. The opinion of the people in the church mattered more than the opinion of the God the church was supposed to be worshipping. And all of a sudden they got distracted. Their focus was on people when the true focus of worship is always supposed to be God. It is always supposed to be him first. And so Judy, they get distracted and you go, know what? I do want those new wheels on my chariot, you know. Those new rims would look really nice. And so this is what we are going to do. Judy, we are just going to take 20%. Nobody is going to miss 20%. I am still giving a much larger offering than everybody else, right? Then all of a sudden you get off into a holy by comparison mindset. Cindy, as long as my one selling of my house offering is bigger than everybody else's offering combined, I am still better, so it must be okay for me to lie. And all of a sudden that pride starts justifying sinful actions. I think the most obvious reason for why they lied is they wanted the accolades. You know, and there are churches, and I am not pointing out any specific name or any specific pastor, but there are definitely churches where people give money to buy influence. Where they give money to buy positioning. Where they give money to buy more of the pastor's personal time. Again, not mentioning any one pastor or any one denomination intentionally. That does happen today. And I am sure all of you who nodded your head, whoever you thought of is a fine example. Okay? But it does happen. And for some reason, money plus church always causes problems. It always does. Because we at our very nature, we are sinful people. I like it when people say I preached a good sermon. I don't like it when people go, eh, it's a shame Pastor Jack was on vacation. You know? I like getting good things. But all of a sudden when I am going to start spending my money, now I am going to be deceptive with my gift to God. You got to remember that this offering and its base principle is no different than the way we worship God through song, or the way we worship God through prayer, or the way we worship God in every other way. It was an offering, but it was a lie. That is the most insulting that you could possibly be to God. And yet, let's take money off the table for a minute. Dan, and please do not answer this question out loud. Let me preface that by saying that. Have you ever been to, seen, thought of, or heard about a church where everybody seems to be super excited about worship? Until Monday comes. And then all of a sudden worship doesn't matter, right? Or we are going to praise the house down on Sunday. And then on Monday I go back to my everyday grumbling routine. By the time Sunday lunch is over, I am already back in my own depressed, distracted, and downtrodden mentality. I would have to argue that if you were that sold about praising Jesus at Sunday morning, by Sunday afternoon you should still be in a good mindset. Your worship is a lie. Take money off the table. What are they doing? They are lying about their worship. I am going to give it all to God, except for this over here that you can't see. I am going to give God everything. I am going to sing loud, and I am going to hold up my hands, because I don't want everyone else to know what I have going on at home. So as long as I look like the most engaged worshiper in the church, Angelina, you won't bother to ask. That is the same deceptive mentality. Or churches, again not pointing out anyone, pastor or church, churches who have these super huge awesome worship ministries. And everybody wants to talk to the band, or they want to get a shirt that I am with the band, or whatever. And it almost becomes an idol. Worship itself becomes an idol. And so we put on the right worshipy face, and we say the right worshipy thing, and we raise our hands at the right time, and we cry at the right time, and we have this emotional experience in worship. The whole time I have got like, the rest of my life is back here in the closet, because I don't want anybody else to know what is in my marriage, or what is in my home, or what is in my children, or the things I really struggle with. Almost knocked it off the wall. Good thing I didn't. This is the same deceptive mentality that Ananias of the Fire had. So don't get distracted, Debbie, don't get distracted by the money aspect of it. Remember that it is still an act of worship. If you come to worship God, whether it be in His Word, in prayer, during music, at home with a CD in your car, and you're only giving Him part of your heart, you are being as deceptive as they were. Now I'm not going to sit here and claim that anybody is going to fall dead in the middle of church, but the same sin is the same sin. So let's call a spade a spade. They got too distracted and too prideful about their own accolades. Your third blank this morning. The deception was towards God. The deception was towards God. Let's take a look at the end of verse 4 and verse 5. You weren't lying to us, but to God. Stop. Right there. You weren't lying to us, but to God. Have you ever stopped to think about the idea of lying to God? Can you lie to God? That's an even better question. Can you lie to God? Well, I believe that God is omniscient. He knows all. I believe God is omnipresent. He is everywhere. So Dan, how do you lie to God? You got to think about it for a second. And what it all comes down to is what is a lie? Stop. What is a lie? A lie is any communication or action or absence of communication or action with the intent to deceive. Now, the other question is, can you truly deceive God? No. But can you have it in your heart of hearts to try? Yes, you can. And that's really what's going on here. Let's be honest, Ray, God knew what was going on the whole time. God knew they were lying, but that doesn't mean that they didn't lie. Just because you tell a lie and somebody catches you in it and you failed to deceive them does not mean you didn't lie. It just means your lie didn't work. So, yes, they did lie to God. Tim, the deception just didn't transcend. That doesn't mean that the lie wasn't told. You have to separate the concept of telling something that is a lie from successfully deceiving something else. The lie is the front part. The deception is the end game. Well, because of God's omniscience and his omnipresence, no, Melvin, we can't deceive God Almighty, but that doesn't mean you can't have it in your heart of hearts to intentionally attempt it. Just like you may intentionally attempt to deceive someone on Earth, another human being, and, Julie, they may or may not give into that lie. You know, they may check up on it and find out, woo, Julie's a liar. Not this specific Julie, just in retrospect. So they did lie to God. Now, Diane, that doesn't mean that they finished deceiving God, but they did lie. They brought something claiming that it was all when it was not. And as soon as Ananias heard these words, he fell to the floor and died. I'm not really sure what that would look like in church, to be honest. You're in the middle of your sermon and all of a sudden, that would definitely be a challenging, recoverable moment. That would have been the time to take up the rest of the offering right then and there. Why? I can't imagine. Like, I know how I feel when someone lies to me, someone that I care about, Judy, someone that I love, a family member. I know how gut-wrenching that is to go, especially when you find out after the fact, that person lied to me, intentionally, either additively or intentionally. Either added or subtracted details. And in Melian and I's definition of lying, we have a very stringent, strict definition of lying in our house. Any communication or action with the intent of deception. That can be deception by omission, I left it out. That can be deception by attrition, I just didn't say it. Or it can be outright deception intentionally. I'm going to physically tell you something that's not true. Whatever you do, if the intention is to obfuscate or leave out any part of the truth, it's a lie. It's either all truth or it isn't. There is no partial truth. You know what a partial truth is? A lie. You know what a 99.9% truth is? A lie. There is no middle ground. There is either truth or there's everything else that's not truth. I heard somebody say, well, there can be untruth. It's a lie. Why would you bother using seven letters when I can spell it in three? And untruth is a lie. Any intention to deceive. And what's really hard to think about is, Melvin, why would you intentionally attempt to deceive God? Doesn't that just seem off? Why would I think, as a near created human being, that I have enough juice to lie and then deceive the creator of the universe? But, you know, Judy, if you and I were thinking about how much it would hurt to have someone lie to us, how much do you think God is offended? Let's not even say hurt. How angry, the same God in the Old Testament who opens up the ground to swallow people, and they just lie to him. I'm just going to lie to God. The deception was, it might have been, you know, Angelina, it might have been because I need you to respect that I can give more money than you. But it really wasn't, I didn't lie to you. I wanted your respect. And that prideful sin drove me to lie to God. And ultimately, he paid the ultimate price for it. And you can see there then at the end of, at the end of here, Chapter 5, then some young men got up and wrapped him in a sheet. Same thing. They couldn't touch a dead body or they would have been ceremonial and clean. So they wrap him up in something, carry him where? Outside. Just like last week's message, they carried Nahum and Abihu all the way outside the camp. God does not tolerate worthless worship. Here's your fourth plank this morning. You have to test the heart. You have to test the heart. We'll go to verses 7 through 9. About three hours later. Now you got, this is super important here. About three hours later, his wife came in not knowing what had happened. So Nelson, even though Ananias and Sapphira decided together, they conspired, they colluded, they intentionally created this deception together. Ananias and Sapphira, they conspired, they colluded, they intentionally created this deception together. Ananias brought the offering by himself. Scripture does not say where Sapphira was. Maybe it just took her a whole lot longer to get ready for church than him. But she was not with him when that initial offering was brought or when he was struck dead. So Peter has no way to know if she's in on it. Think about it, Cindy. We know because we are told in verse 1 that Ananias and Sapphira colluded together. But when Ananias showed up to church to give that offering, he was alone. So Peter doesn't know if Sapphira's in on it or if Ananias was pocketing the money on the side telling his wife, I'm going to give it all to the church when in actuality he had another apartment stashed somewhere. So Peter doesn't know at this point if Sapphira is guilty or innocent. He has to find out. Hence the question. Peter asked, was this the price that you and your husband received for the land? Yes. Boom. Now he's got his answer. If she had simply said, no, Fran, I paid WIC. I got way more than that. Peter would have known, okay, she's not in on the deception. Let me go tell her why we're planning her husband's funeral. And the story would have ended completely differently. But because we find out in verse 1 they're colluding together, Peter tests her heart and finds out she's guilty. I have to say one of the most challenging things to do in your faith is ask yourself the why question. Tough question. Do you believe in Jesus? Absolutely. Why? Do you attend church regularly? Yes. Why? Do you worship God in your personal life? Yes. Why? If you will test the heart, test the real reason, Dan, why do we do the things we do? Look in that really, really scary mirror on the inside of yourself and ask yourself, what is my motivation? Why did I become a pastor? Because I love talking to people. And all of you have to sit here until I'm done. It's awesome. Why did I become pastor? Because God built me for this. And Pastor Rick's here. He can tell you. 15 years ago he sat here and told me this is what I would be doing for a living. Because I took the same sort of spiritual guest test that we built for you. And he sat there and told me this is what your gifts are good at. Just figure out how to get used to it. And then figure out how to like it. And then figure out how to praise God for it. You've got to know why your heart wants certain things. I know the popular phrase, the heart wants what the heart wants. Well, if we truly understand that we're sinful on the inside. Tim, sometimes the heart wants what the heart wants, but the heart shouldn't get what the heart wants. The heart is selfish. The heart is sinful. The heart wants what's good for Bill. My soul wants what's good for God. And maybe, just maybe TJ, those things aren't always exactly the same. And I have to make a choice. Am I going to choose what's good for Bill? Or am I going to choose what's good for God? Now yes, sometimes that is the same decision. Julia coming down here to pastor this church was a great move for the kingdom. And it was a great move for our family. And I'm so glad that I did. So not every single decision needs to be me on the left and God on the right. There are times where those things are mutually inclusive. But this is not one of those times. This is, got to find out, are Dan and Judy in this together? Did they somehow collude? Or is Judy totally innocent? And we should probably, because at this point, Ann and I is dead, right? So Judy, if this were you and Dan, you're now a widow. And we know from the book of Acts what the church is commanded to do for widows and orphans, right? So Judy, I got to find out, am I going to spend the next 20 years taking care of you because you're innocent? Or am I going to spend the next 20 minutes burying you because you're guilty? And the only way to do that is to test the heart behind what's going on. So she, unfortunately, did the wrong thing. She said, yes, that was the price. How could the two of you even think to conspire to test the spirit of the Lord? Why is lying to God testing him? I think it's a really good question. I think it's not the fact that they gave the money because Peter said it. They could have given anything. I think it's the fact that they tested the integrity of God. Think about the last couple of weeks we've talked about. God is very particular in the way he likes his worship. He doesn't like it tainted. He doesn't like it halfway. He wants pure. He wants humble. He wants reverent in his presence. Not deceptive. Not selfish. Not sinful. Not distracted. He wants all of something when it's given. And again, not all meaning they couldn't have kept some of the money. All meaning they could have just been honest about it. If they had walked in and said, you know what, Judy, we sold this house, and here's half of the money. We're going to use the other half for this. There's no problem there. There's no deception. There's no impropriety. There's no sinful motivation pushing you in the wrong direction. But the only way you're going to know why you do something is if you are willing to take that hard look and put yourself in a situation, Nelson, where you have to test your heart and what's going on. Here's the final blank as we wrap up this series. God doesn't tolerate deceptive worship. God doesn't tolerate deceptive worship. Look at the closing verses of our passage today. Instantly, she fell to the floor and died. When the young men came in and saw that she was dead, they went, one more time, guys, come on, let's play it again. They came in, carried her out, and buried her beside her husband. And great fear gripped the entire church and everyone who heard what had happened. Why? Why be afraid? Because all of a sudden, God's starting to care about the purity of the worship that's given to him. And he's starting to exemplify that care with some rather lethal circumstances. I think, and I've said this, I think in every message so far, in today's worship environment, we have the idea that we can give God worship and praise however we choose, and it's totally okay because it's our gift to God. Tracy, that's just wrong. You don't get to decide how worthy God is. And obviously, you know, I'm not yelling at just you, I'm yelling at all of us. We don't decide how worthy God is. He's already worthy. Whether we choose to recognize his worthiness or not does not take away from God's worthiness. Whether we choose to call him king or not does not take away from his position. When we approach God in worship, whether it be here collectively, as we worship God in music, whether it be in your own home life, you have a worship CD, or you have your quiet time, you know, with your coffee and your Bible on your lanai or whatever. However it is that you approach God, please don't be deceptive. I know people who go, oh, I spend 20 minutes a day in prayer. It's so awesome. And when I'm done praying, my grocery list is written. And, you know, my shopping list is done. And, you know, and I'm there. Sometimes you're trying to just spend five minutes in prayer, and Dan, that's the five minutes where everything you have to do that day is just bombarding in your mind. And you're going, no, I'll think about that in a minute. No, I'll think about that in a minute. No, I'll think about that in a minute. You have to give God all of yourself. Don't be deceptive. Don't be deceptive in your prayer life. Ray, don't sit down to pray to God, but you're really thinking about lunch, since everybody's starting to think about lunch. Don't worship God at home, but be thinking about, or here's one. I try to practice my worship music at home, right? I try to be prepared when I come to practice. I have to not think about, I wonder if everybody will like this song, because it's not about you. And I don't mean to insult any of you when I say that, but it's not about you. Do I need to care whether you like the song? No, not really, because we're all collectively giving that song to God. Now, should I be cognizant of whether we're picking a song that you can sing? Should we probably sing a song in English? Should we consider the idea that the key signature might make it easier for men and women to sing? Yes, all of that is great, but do I need to care if you like the way I play my guitar? No, because then all of a sudden I'm going to start giving into the idea that, Dan, I should do things the way you guys like it, not necessarily the way he likes it. See how fast that deception can step in there, especially for anybody who's ever played in music or been on a worship team. You'll notice, like, I don't like to have my eye...I'm either looking at my sheet music or my eyes are closed, because you guys are too much of a distraction. I don't want the temptation of looking out and seeing people go... Number one, all of your faces are super awesome during worship. One of these days we should just get a GoPro and just leave it up here, and so we can see what the church looks like during worship. But it's distracting, it's difficult. Because it's hard for me, and I'll be honest, it is. I'm a frail human being just like everybody else. I enjoy the praise of people just like everybody else does. But when I'm up here trying to lead the church in worship, I don't want to care about whether you like me. Can I say that without sounding really, really hollow? And I don't want to be distracted by that. I've got to test my heart and find out why do I play my guitar in worship? You know why I play my guitar in worship? I'm a guitar player, or I would take a break. But Angelina, I should never be rehearsing, going, Wow, Eric and Angelina are going to really like this song. I hope they'll stay at the church because I played this song on my guitar. You know how stupid that sounds? How selfish? How arrogant to think that it's up to me at all. How arrogant to think that if I pick the right songs, then God will move in our church. No, I think God wants to move in our church. The question is how many of us resist him? As we close out this whole series, can you take me back to that first sentence? It's really been the first time I've ever looked at worship through this lens before. But now that we've looked at the very first line, that not all worship offered to God is accepted by him. I have to be honest, I've been in ministry for 13 years, and it's the first time I've really heavily considered that statement. Mel and I have been worship leaders the majority of our career, and it's the first time I've really considered that statement. In your personal life, the way you give worship to God, whether it's prayer, whether it's music, whether it's offering, whatever it is, have you ever stopped to consider the reality that the way you offer it to God might just get it turned back and have him turn away from it? We looked at four different things. God gave God leftovers, we gave God profane worship, we gave God irreverent worship, and we've given God deceptive worship. What I want for you, I want you to be able to have a totally personal and pure worship experience between you and God. Whether that's in your car when you're praying about what's going on, or Doug, when you and Glen are sitting at home and you put on a worship album and you pray together, or Tuesday night at our Bible study, whatever it is, I don't want you in the position where God is turning away and not accepting the worship that you are giving to him. I don't ever want our church to be in that position. I don't want us to get so distracted by the idols that exist in our modern-day church world that God stops receiving the worship that we give him. Do me a favor and now you can pull out your connection card. This is your chance to be a part and respond to the service this morning. Every week at C3, I challenge you to take a next step. A next step is something that you are going to do to grow in your faith between now and next Sunday when we see each other. Being a Christian is not just about attending church on Sunday, but about having a relationship with God every single day of the week. So I want to challenge you to do something this week that will help you grow in your relationship. Number one, this week I will evaluate my true motivation for worship. If you are a musician, that is even more of a requirement. Why do you play in church? Because several of us will agree that there were plenty of times we played in church that had nothing to do with God because you have a skill set. You have a skill set and someone is dumb enough to let you play. There are plenty of times you can play in church, you can lead worship in church, and it has nothing to do with God and it has everything to do with the paycheck. So don't assume just because you have a musical talent that it is automatically all for God, because it might not be. Number two, this week I will commit to attend church more regularly. Make being a part of God's family and worshiping with your local church an important aspect of worshiping God. Number three, please contact me about creating a personal worship routine. I've said it every single week for this series. You should be spending time with God every day. There is not enough church attendance on Sunday that can make up for not having a relationship with God Monday to Saturday. It just doesn't work like that. And finally, I will memorize Acts chapter 5 verse 4. You have lied to God. Right underneath of that you can see send me info about. All month long we've been talking about spending time with God and having a relationship with Him and knowing who He is in your life. I've got to ask the question, do you know who God is in your life? Do you have a relationship with Jesus as your personal Savior? Or is He just a character that people talk about in a book who somebody wrote a long time ago? Do you have a one-on-one relationship with God? If the answer to that question is no or I don't know, then do me a favor and fill out that bubble that says beginning life with Jesus. I'm not going to drag you up here in front of the church. I'm not going to embarrass you. I'm not going to take your picture and put it on my Twitter feed. If you fill out that bubble, I'm going to contact you. I'm going to offer to buy you a cup of coffee or a burger or some ice cream or some cheesecake or I'll keep throwing out categories of food until you say yes. Whatever it takes to get you to the table so we can sit and talk about how God is going to be an active part of your life. The second one underneath of that says rededicating my life to Jesus. Maybe you made a decision to have a relationship with God at a previous point in your life and then work and marriage and divorce and moving and everything else got in the way and all of a sudden you're sitting here going, you know Diane, my relationship with God today doesn't seem to be the way it was before. It feels different. It feels distant. It feels like He's further away. And you would like to make a distinct change? Fill out that bubble that says rededicating my life to Jesus. Again, I'm not going to embarrass you. I don't want to enable you. I want to give you tools. I want to give you support. I want to give you encouragement to continue growing in your personal relationship with God. Then thirdly, you can see right underneath that says how to grow spiritually. We have a great discipleship program here. And if you would like to meet with me, 20 minutes and I can give you a personalized prescription for growing in your faith. No matter where you are, we find it out. Find out where you want to go and we build the first step. That's all it takes. Growing spiritually does not have to be complicated. It doesn't have to be filled with $13 theological terms. It only has to be filled with the right kind of heart. You can also see there, interested in baptism, eGiving, church membership. On the right hand side, we've got a ton of stuff coming up. The egg stuffing party is this coming Saturday. Mr. and Mrs. Game Night is next week. Ladies, please sign up for that. C3 Paintball. Gentlemen, if you want the opportunity to shoot at me, you can try. Because I will be shooting back. So if you want to go paintballing, sign up for that. Young Adults Pizza and Poker Party. That should be a lot of fun. Let us really start building a new group with some camaraderie. And then the Discover Class. If you are not currently a member of C3, that means you went to the old membership class and signed on the dotted line and said, I want to be a member. Please sign up for the Discover Class. Because you still don't have to become a member of our church. Like, I'm not going to create a church where you absolutely have to be a member. I will create a church where you have to engage and grow spiritually. And then Natalie, decide whether membership is for you or not. But I can't have a church where you're not growing. And this would normally be the part where I get to leave and say, Pastor Jack wants to talk to you for a minute. But this would be a really, really easy scripture to transition to financial giving. Giving of our finances is one aspect of worshipping God. Just like prayer, just like worshipping Him through music, just like worshipping Him through fellowshipping with other believers. But it is also something that should be a necessary part of your life. And I know that sounds like a line coming from somebody who works for a church. Of course, I'm going to stand up here and tell you to give all of your money to the church. Because I'll get a bigger paycheck. No, that's not how that happens. I'll email you our church bylaws. I promise, that's not how that works. The trustees are the only people to decide whether I get a raise. But what I find so many people do today is they say, Dan, I don't trust the pastor, so I'm not going to give to God. Doesn't that seem like disjointed logic? Melvin, I don't like the pastor, so I'm going to not give to God. I'm going to make it God's fault that He brought the wrong pastor to our church. I'm going to blame God because Pastor Bill's not good at XYZ, or Pastor Bill forgot to contact me at XYZ. Let me be very clear, and this is not meant to be insulting, but I don't get to give the giving talk, so I've got to do something to be memorable. Your gifts to God are in no way a comment on my pastoral leadership. They are your requirement to worship God. They shouldn't be used as a commentary on the pastor. They definitely shouldn't be used to try to control or manipulate the pastor. Because, Julie, if I don't preach the sermon the way you want, then maybe you and Terry won't give. You and Terry are going to give based on how you feel led to worship God. And that shouldn't be used as a weapon against me and my access. We talk about people who give to buy access with the pastor. That should never be a reward for financial giving. So if you're new at C3 and you don't know this, I don't know what anybody gives. So give anyway, because I don't know. Tim and I were just talking about it last night. The way we have our church set up, I get one number at the end of the week. Bill, this is what you have to lead the church and pay the bills. I have no idea what Nelson or Sean or anybody gives because I don't want to know. And I don't mean this to be offensive. I don't care to know. I actually want to not know. So if you're here this morning and you're thinking, I'm not going to give or I'm going to give because Pastor Bill will be impressed with me or Pastor Bill is angry with me, that's just not going to happen. Tracy, you've been here long enough to know. I've got plenty of reasons I can be angry at you, but your giving is not going to be one of them. I want you to develop a habit of giving to God to trust Him and see His provision move in your life. I can tell you that Mellie and I have been through countless experiences where we're facing, you know, the month or the money is running out before the month is over. And you're sitting here going, okay, God, what am I going to do? And then some weird, crazy circumstance happens and there's God's provision. And I'm sure some of you have had those kind of moments where God just provides in strange and mysterious ways. He provides because we trust Him. And even if we don't trust Him, you should worship Him because He's worthy enough. Again, we are not the determiners of God's worthiness. He is worthy whether we choose to recognize it or not. So Doug, Ray, if you guys could come in a minute, we're going to receive this morning's offering. Do me a favor, put your connection card in there. If you do not want to use your offering envelope, that's totally fine. You can go ahead and just leave that in there and your prayer card. If you would like to give this morning and you don't have a cash or check, but you have a smartphone or an iPad or any other kind of electronic device, you can go to give2c3.org. That's our online giving portal. Or you can also text to that phone number right there. Just text the number and the reason for your giving. If it's a gift, if you want to buy Bibles, if you want to whatever, and you can give that way too. Your giving to God should be a discipline of your worship, not necessarily a comment on our church. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you so much for another awesome look at how we can better learn how to worship you. Father, I pray that you would just be with all of us this week as we continue to try to live out worshiping you because you're worthy in ways that you are pleased with. Father, I pray you would bless every single person that has electronically given this week and every person who is giving this morning. Father, pour out your blessings and your provision on them as they trust you and give to you because you're worthy. Lord, we love you and we thank you in your awesome name. Amen.