This morning we begin our End of Days series in which we will be examining not just the book of Revelation but what the Bible says overall about the End of Days. The first thing you have to understand is the book of Revelation is not the only future apocalyptic text in the Bible. There are Old Testament texts that lend towards looking to the future and there are additional New Testament texts that lend towards looking to the future. So it's not just going to be Revelation. Let me give it to you this way. How many people have ever put together a puzzle? And just show of hands. Okay, most of you in this room have played with a puzzle before. How easy is it when you start putting together the puzzle to just pick a single random piece and start building the picture? Even if you had the picture on the front of the box. Now I watch my mother-in-law and my wife and their sisters and sometimes when they're feeling real spunky they pour all the pictures out and then they hide the box and then they try to put the picture together. Some of you are nodding you've done that. I will pray for all of you. Okay, Kathy I'm not a big puzzle fan. Not at all. But what do you always do when you start doing a puzzle? What's the first thing you always have to do? The corners right? The corners and then you connect the corners with the outer edge. You create a frame right? That not only gives you the edges of you know I'm not going to go beyond this but now you can start to see where certain things fit together because you've done the first part which is build your frame. That's what we're going to do this morning. I know it would be super fun Julie to just jump right into like Revelation chapter 5 and start figuring things out. But I want you to resist that temptation because it's just like jumping into the puzzle. Jump into the middle without first accepting the frame. Once you make the frame you find those four corner pieces. You start connecting the dots. Now all of a sudden you've got a framework to work from and the picture makes sense. If you were to just randomly start with some centerpiece. You probably could do it. You know what Dan? I think you're a pretty smart guy. I accept the reality you probably could do it but let's be honest wouldn't it take longer? Wouldn't it be so much harder than starting and building a framework? So the reality is the Bible gives us a framework to approach the end of days. And that's this morning's message. So do me a favor and look at the back of your bulletin. It looks a lot like this. This morning what we are going to do is examine four elements from the Old Testament. Well three from the Old Testament one from the New Testament. Four corners if you will Judy that will help establish our framework. And they are this message isn't called the promises. Kevin before I can take you to the book of Revelation and start making sense of the future prophetic things that God has said. We must first establish the reality that there are some outstanding promises that God has made that need to be fulfilled in Revelation. Revelation in the end of days is not a standalone thing. It is the building on which the foundation has already been laid. And we are going to look at four promises this morning. Now the biblical term for these is a covenant. So what is a covenant? A covenant is a promise or agreement between two parties that is binding. So it's a little bit more than the word promise today. The word promise today you'd be like oh yeah I promise I'm gonna take out the trash I promise. You know oh yeah I promise I'm gonna get that car washed. Oh I promise I'm gonna do this. A covenant really is a promise but it is one that is a guaranteed promise. This is not in your notes but this part is super important to understanding. We are going to look at four specific covenants that God makes with his people and Ray these four covenants will establish the framework by which we will approach the end of days. So that's why I want you to understand a covenant is a promise or agreement given between two parties that is binding. Another thing you need to understand Dan is some covenants are conditional and some are unconditional. The four covenants we will be looking at this morning are unconditional. That means regardless of man's response God has made promises. Melissa don't you believe God tells the truth? Believe when God makes a promise he's going to make it happen. That's what we're going to look at this morning. So let me give you your first couple blanks and then hopefully this will start to make a little bit of sense. First we're going to look at the Abrahamic covenant and here are all the blanks for you. The Abrahamic covenant establishes three main things. First I and of course this is God Jehovah God speaking. I will be your God. I will make you a great nation and I will bless the world through you. So I'll give you a minute because that's usually a lot more blanks than I give you for one point. I will be your God. I will make you a great nation and I will bless the world through you. Now if you have your Bibles this morning physical or digital I want to invite you to turn to the book of Genesis where I'm actually going to read two different texts from Genesis and they're there in your notes. First we're going to look at Genesis 12 1 2 and 3 then we're going to jump to Genesis 17 verse 7 8 and 19 but I've got them for you here on the screen in one stream of consciousness because I want you to see it this way. This is the word of God Genesis chapter 12 1 to 3 17 7 8 and 19 all in the new living translation. This is what it says. The Lord had said to Abram leave your native country your relatives and your father's family and go to the land that I will show you. I will make you into a great nation. I will bless you and make you famous and you will be a blessing to others. I will bless those who bless you and curse those who treat you with contempt. All the families on earth will be blessed through you. I will confirm my covenant with you and your descendants after you from generation to generation. This is the everlasting covenant. I will always be your God and the God of your descendants after you and I will give the entire land of Canaan where you are now where you now live as a foreigner to you and your descendants. They will be their possession forever and I will be their God. Sarah your wife will give birth to a son for you. You will name him Isaac and I will confirm my covenant with him and his descendants as an everlasting covenant. Dan this is the first breadcrumb so to speak. Doug I love your analogy the corner piece. This is our first corner piece of understanding what's going to happen at the end times. I heard a really great quote. I heard a really great quote as I was preparing for this and it said it's not a matter of what God can do. God can do anything of course but Terry it's a matter of God will do what he said he will do. So to understand the coming events this is where we start. The Abrahamic covenant is first an everlasting covenant you see that. This is an everlasting promise from God the father to Abram. Now Abram's name gets changed to Abraham and he becomes the father of the Jewish nation. In fact when the Jewish nation talks about the three patriarchs they are Abraham what's the next one? Isaac and Jacob. And here at the Abrahamic covenant is the first promise or covenant that God makes with his people and it covers these three basic things. I will be your God and of course the subtext there is Melvin and you will be my children. I will be your God and you will be my children. A relationship is established between God and what we now call the nation of Israel. Then it was just Abraham and his descendants. We now understand that this is the nation of Israel. The original Israel that we are talking about. God establishes a special relationship with Abraham through his son Isaac and I will confirm my covenant with him and his descendants. So you have to understand Abraham did have other children. One of the most famous children being Ishmael but the Abrahamic covenant does not apply to anyone except Isaac and his descendants. So while Abraham may have had other children Kathy other than just Isaac and Ishmael the Abrahamic covenant is only Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and through. And as we will see it goes through the rest of the Old Testament even into the New Testament that way. But God has made certain promises and Dan these promises must be fulfilled at the end times. And this is what will help us understand as we unpack the rest of this series. God has already promised to national Israel that he will always be their God. He has also promised to national Israel that he will make them into a great nation. Now what does the word great nation mean? One of the context is obviously Kevin, numerous. Great as in numerical size. I will make you a great nation. Your descendants will be as many as the stars in the sky, the sands in the sea, another time Abrahamic covenant is mentioned. So the first part of great is Kathy numeric size. I will make you into a large nation. But the second part of great is I will make you a great nation as in exalted over other nations. This is the second promise within this Abrahamic covenant. And the third one is I will bless the entire world through you and your descendants. So specifically Abraham down to Isaac and of course we all today understand that part we know right? Jesus came from the line of David. Jesus is from the Abrahamic line and it is through Jesus that the whole world is blessed. And we will get to that a little bit later. But to understand what is going to happen in Revelation, now here is my question. Has this promise been fulfilled? Is Israel a gigantic huge world honored nation today? No it is not. Israel is hated by a lot of people. So this is what you need to understand. This promise is the word of God. It stands for all time. And if it hasn't come true yet, that must mean Kathy it will come true then into the future. So as we look to the future, this is the first thing you must understand. God is going to deliver true on his promise to Abraham. I will be your God. I will make you a great nation. I will bless the world through you. That's our first corner. Our second corner, Glenda let's look at this. This is called the Palestinian covenant. The Palestinian covenant and it covers two things. I will give you land to live. I will give you land to live and you will receive blessing from living there. I will give you land to live and you will receive blessing from living there. Now we're going to go ahead and go to the book of Numbers. The book of Numbers still in the very beginning of your Bible. Numbers chapter 34 verses 1 and 2. Numbers chapter 34 verses 1 and 2. This is what it says. Then the Lord said to Moses, give these instructions to the Israelites. When you come into the land of Canaan, which I will give you, you will receive a blessing from the Lord of Canaan, which I am giving you as your special possession. These will be the boundaries. And if you go to this chapter and you read, the next 10 verses are geographic coordinates. From this river to here to here to here. And the Lord lays out a map of exactly what the ancient land of Canaan was. I didn't include all of that because you can look at it. Because the boundaries aren't nearly important as the promise. Now Dan, something I've got to mention here. The Palestinian covenant is the land covenant. I will give you land. This is a further expansion of the Abrahamic covenant. It does not replace or repeal God's previous promises. Think about it this way. The Abrahamic covenant is the top of the tent. The Palestinian covenant is a development of that. That makes sense? When he said, I will make you a great nation, a great nation needs land in order to be great. By proxy of God has promised national Israel land in order to be, or the fact that they will be a great nation, nations require land. So here when we get to numbers, God further expands that part of the Abrahamic covenant. We call it the Palestinian covenant. I know that name gets a little confusing. I didn't make it with Palestinians. It's the description of the land that should belong to national Israel. The Lord said to Moses, give these instructions to Israelites. When you come into the land of Canaan, which I am giving to you. Again, Ray a promise directly from God himself to his children, national Israel, saying I am giving you this land as your special possession. The land of Canaan, the full land of Canaan, is promised to national Israel as their forever possession. So let me ask you again, Dan has that been fulfilled today? Does the nation of Israel have total 100% control over the entire land of Canaan? No. Why do you think there is so much war in that part of the world? There is some serious significance to this. So again, Judy, if this is another expansion and promise of God's promises, and it's not been fulfilled yet, God's word is true, TJ, it will be fulfilled then. So here is our second corner. Not only does God promise to make the Abrahamic covenant, I will make you a great nation, I will bless the world through you, I am going to give you land. Now we have an actual definition. If you go in your Bible and look, a lot of Bibles will actually have a map. And it will show you what they think the ancient boundaries of Canaan are. Israel has never possessed all of it in modern times. They have never possessed all of the land that has been promised to them in modern times. One could argue that they possessed it all in the Old Testament, but that they were still foreigners living in the land. That's not a full on possession. If I have to share my car with somebody else, it's not mine all the time. You know what I mean? When God says this will be your special possession, he means quite literally, Doug, the land that is described here in Numbers 34, verses 3, all the way to I think 12. It gives you this description, top, bottom, left, right, that belongs to Israel. And since Israel has never possessed it up to this point, God's word must be true. It is an outstanding promise. So there is our second corner. You guys with me so far? I know this is a lot of detailed stuff, but I got to lay a good framework. All right, let's look at our third covenant this morning. The Davidic covenant. The Davidic covenant makes one very simple promise. A forever king will come from the line of David. A forever king will come from the line of David. A forever king will come from the line of David. Now we're going to fast forward to 2 Samuel, right after 1 Samuel. 2 Samuel chapter 7, we're going to look at the latter half of verse 11 all the way to verse 16. So this is kind of a chunk of Scripture. 2 Samuel chapter 7, 11b to 16. And this is what it says. Furthermore declares, or furthermore the Lord declares that he will make a house for you, a dynasty of kings. For when you die and are buried with your ancestors, I will raise up one of your descendants, your offspring, and I will make his kingdom strong. He is the one who will build a house, a temple, for my name, and I will secure his royal throne forever. I will be his father and he will be my son. If he sins, I will correct and discipline him with the rod like any father would. But my favor will not be taken from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I removed from your sight. Your house and your kingdom will continue before me for all time, and your throne will be secure forever. Now, the Davidic covenant can be a little confusing because it's really kind of hinting at two different people. First, the man who actually built the Lord's temple in the Old Testament, his name is Solomon. Solomon, that's correct. Solomon was given the privilege of building the Lord's house. But is Solomon immortal? No, Solomon was mortal. He died. So whilst part of the Davidic covenant is fulfilled through Solomon and he builds the Lord's temple, Solomon is not a forever king. Solomon is not capable of ruling and keeping the line of David's dynasty alive for eternity. Who fulfilled that? Jesus did. Absolutely right. That's why it was so important for the Messiah to be from the line of David, because of the Davidic covenant. God makes a promise that there will be a forever king who will rule on the throne of David for all time. Now, this is where we reach our first, what do you call that, fork in the road, where you have to make a decision. I will try my best to present both sides of this and allow you to choose for yourself. But understand this, we just got finished with six weeks of how you view effects what you do. We're building a frame for the puzzle. If you get one frame piece out of whack, the rest of the puzzle starts shifting. We know that Jesus is the forever king. He is the king of kings and he is the Lord of lords. But is he currently ruling on the throne of David in a forever capacity? You got to ask yourself, I'll give you both answers before I tell you the one I believe is right. Some will say no, he is not. Others will say yes, he is because he is the king of kings and Lord of lords. So by definition, he rules from heaven. Well, the problem with the first is where is the throne of David? That's the real issue here. Is the throne of David a heavenly throne on which Jesus sits beside the father? You know when Stephen was being stoned to death in the book of Acts, he looked up and he saw Jesus standing at the right side of the father. Is the throne of David in heaven or is the throne of David on earth? Now I will tell you what I believe is correct. I believe part of this has been fulfilled. Jesus is the king of kings. That's why we get together every Sunday. Jesus is totally the king of kings. But Nelson, the throne of David in all of scripture was never referred to in a heavenly capacity. It was always referred to as the actual throne in the actual temple in actual Jerusalem on this planet. So whilst there are some who will say, well no, Judy, Jesus is the king of kings. He's on the throne of David. No, he's from the line of David because he's the king of kings. But nowhere in scripture has the throne of David ever been referred to in heaven. It has always been referred to as the actual Jerusalem here on earth. So I will tell you what I believe, correct, is that no, whilst Jesus is the king of kings, he has not fulfilled the second part, which is your throne will be secure forever and your kingdom will continue before me. That part of the divinic covenant has not been fulfilled. And again, Jenny, if God said it and it must be true, if it hasn't happened yet, it will happen then. Does that make sense? Jesus is totally the fulfillment of the divinic covenant. But just because part of the divinic covenant has been fulfilled does not mean it all has. So again, we start with back at Abraham. God made three promises to Abraham. I will be your God. I will make you a great nation. I will bless the world through you. I think we would all agree the world is blessed with the sacrifice of Jesus. That part has been fulfilled, but Israel has never taken full control of its land. And Jesus is not reigning on the actual throne that sits in the temple in physical Jerusalem in the Middle East because he has not returned yet to earth. So the divinic covenant establishes the third part of our framework. Not only are we waiting for Israel to become a great nation, God has never ceased to be God. Let's be honest, right? God's never stopped being God. But Israel has never had all of the land promised to it. It is not in the primary place of prominence of the world's nations. That has not been fulfilled. And Jesus is not reigning on a throne sitting in Jerusalem. I cannot buy a plane ticket right now and go sit at the feet of Jesus. That's why I know the second half of the divinic covenant has yet to be fulfilled, which gives me a third thing that I need to look forward to happening. So here's the third frame. The Abrahamic covenant expanded into the Palestinian covenant, expanded further with the Davidic covenant. Is everybody with me so far? I know I'm getting like way deep. If you want to have questions, I'll be here after service, okay? My family's out of town, so it's not like I'm in a rush. Don't tell her I said that. I'm going to edit it out of the recording. I'm going to edit it before she can hear that part. All right, here's the fourth thing. Abrahamic covenant, Palestinian covenant, Davidic covenant, and now the new covenant. And the new covenant has two separate parts that I'll review separately. So here's the first part of the new covenant. Israel will be saved through Jesus. The first part of the new covenant. Israel will be saved through Jesus. Israel will be saved through Jesus. Now we're going to go to the New Testament to the book of Hebrews. The book of Hebrews chapter 8 verses 10, 11, and 12. The book of Hebrews chapter 8 verses 10, 11, and 12 in the New Living, and this is what it says. But this is the new covenant I will make with the people of Israel on that day, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their minds, and I will write them on their hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people. And they will not need to teach their neighbors, nor will they need to teach their relatives, saying, You should know the Lord, for everyone from the least to the greatest will know me already. And I will forgive their wickedness, and I will never again remember their sins. The biggest part of this verse, if you have a Bible and you want to underline it, long press and hold and highlight it, is right here. But this is the new covenant I will make with the people of Israel. The first thing you have to understand about the new covenant is it is a further extension of the Abrahamic covenant from back in Genesis. Tomorrow we're building layers upon layers of how God has expanded the original promise through the Palestinian to the land, through the Davidic covenant to bless the world, all to lead to the salvation of national Israel. The first part of the new covenant, and I know everybody's going, What about us, pastor? I'm going to get there, okay? Melissa, just hold your horse, like you only got one horse. Just hold on to him for a minute. I'll be there. But the first thing you must understand about the new covenant is Israel will be saved through Jesus. The same nation that denied the promised Messiah the first time in the New Testament will be brought to salvation through Jesus Christ. But the new covenant has a second aspect to it. And here's the second part. This is the good news for you and me. Gentiles can also be saved. Nelson, I was not born Jewish. I'm Hawaiian. My ancestors are polytheistic. I was not born into national Israel. I am not Hebrew by ethnicity. So therefore, by proxy, I am a Gentile. The fact that Gentiles can be saved, Kathy, that's good news for me. Because that means I'm not left in the dark. Take a look at Romans chapter 11 verses 11 and 12. Romans chapter 11 verses 11 and 12. This is the apostle Paul speaking. Did God's people stumble and fall beyond recovery? Of course not. They were disobedient, so God made salvation available to the Gentiles. But he wanted his own people to become jealous and claim it for themselves. Now, if the Gentiles were enriched because the people of Israel turned down God's offer of salvation, how much greater a blessing the world will share when they finally accept it. We are, how many people have ever heard the phrase, the wild olive branch grafted into the tree? Praise God for his grace and mercy. I'm part of that wild olive branch. I was not born a native Hebrew. My people are from the islands. I'm a Gentile. But God in his grace loved every one of his people. And so we are grafted in to the final of the four covenants. The Abrahamic covenant, the Palestinian covenant, and the Davidic covenant all apply to national Israel only. This is super important because now we're going to get to the second fork in the road, Abby, so to speak. The first three covenants apply to national Israel only. The new covenant is where the church comes in. Dan, the new covenant is where we're offered salvation in Jesus. And that is a great day. I am thankful that the Lord grafted us in. But if you read the whole of the Bible, God's plan never stopped Israel being his kiddos. Israel has always been God's chosen people. But in his mercy and grace, we, the Christian church, have been grafted in through the new covenant. And we are actually a part of the blessing of the world because we are sharing the news of Jesus. We are a part of the promise made to national Israel because we evangelize and tell people about Jesus, the Messiah, the Savior. But those first three corners that we looked at, the Abrahamic, the Palestinian, the Davidic, Lena, they are not for you and me. And I don't mean to insult anyone or offend anyone when I say that. I was not born in native Hebrew unless like one of the tribes of Israel went, man, it's too hot here. We should go to the Pacific and started the Hawaiian people, which I don't think happened. Unless for some reason that happened, I do not believe I was born in native Hebrew, which means I do not get to partake in the first three promises. But I am grafted in because of God's grace here to offer salvation to the Gentiles. So we as the Christian church, we have a hope, we have an expectation, but, Glenna, we should also have a framework. The book of Revelation and the End Times is really not about us. That is the biggest thing I learned in the last two months preparing this to bring this to you. The end of days really isn't about the church. God has some outstanding promises for his kids that he is going to bring to fruition. He is going to deliver the land that he promised to the national Israel. He is going to deliver the place of prominence on earth that he promised to his children. But those promises do not extend to the Christian church. And here we come to the second fork in the road that I will present to you. You have to decide for yourself, does the Christian church replace national Israel? There is a thing out there that is being taught called replacement theology. And the way it goes is this, and it sounds super nice and easy, but I will tell you I think it is a lie. I will tell you up front. I am not really going to give you a choice on this one because, Kathy, I think it is too dangerous. Let me tell you what other people want to tell you. Judy, Israel is the church in the Old Testament and the church is Israel in the New Testament. Doesn't that sound nice? Doesn't that sound just like a beautiful little bookend? Kevin, everything that was meant for Israel in the Old Testament is meant for the church in the New Testament. And everything that is meant for the church in the New Testament is really meant for Israel in the Old Testament. Well, the problem with that is it completely ignores the chronology of the Bible. There is no way that the prophet Elijah in the Old Testament was looking forward to the New Testament church. He was a human being. He was mortal. He had no concept of God's ultimate plan for salvation of the Gentiles. To rewrite history and go back into the Old Testament with a New Testament church mentality is dangerous theology. Because then, Melvin, the problem is, wait a minute, I am part of the Christian church. Where is my part of national Israel's land? Where is my 40 acres and a mule? Do you see how entitled the Christian church gets when all of a sudden we start taking national Israel's place? I believe replacement theology is a lie. I do not think it lines up. If you read scripture with a literal format from front to back, I do not believe that the prophet Micah or the prophet Joel in the Old Testament was looking forward to us today. I think it places the Christian church in a place that it doesn't belong. We are still the bride of Christ. Like, we have a part to play. But the best analogy I can give it to you is this. Remember when Jesus said to his disciples, I go to prepare a place for you? And in my father's house there are many mansions. And if it were not so, I would have told you. And when the time is right, I'm going to come back and get you. We as the Christian church, as followers of Jesus, have been grafted in to God's plan. And we have been granted access to stay in the Father's mansion. But, Melvin, it wasn't built for us. We are guests who get the privilege of staying in that which was built for God's people. And we are grafted in to God's people. But nowhere in scripture does it say that the wild olive branch that was grafted in took over the rest of the plant and replaced it all. No, we as the Christian church have a hope and a celebration that we get to spend eternity with Jesus. But we do not replace the promises that God made to his people, to national Israel. And now you see the four sides of the frame. So, now I want to get to the key thought for this series. Terry, normally I'm going to start at the beginning. This time it's at the end and it will be at the beginning for the rest of it. The end of the world is a series of events. Most of the apocalyptic movies that have been made about the end of the world, TJ, they lay it up as if the end of the world is like this one six hour period of time. And you've got this Schwarzenegger style character who's racing against spiritual figures and he's like slaying demons with some bright shiny sword. That's Hollywood, okay? Don't get your theology from the Da Vinci Code, alright? That's Hollywood. When we get to scripture, scripture has the end of the world playing out over a period that lasts more than a thousand years. Years. Physical chronological earth years. The end times is called times with an S because there's multiple events. It's not the end second. It's not the end moment. It's the end times. And there are a series of events that play out. So, here's what we're going to look at over the next couple of weeks. Did I put that in the notes, Sam? Yeah, there it is. These are all key events that happen throughout the end times. And these are the weeks we're going to examine each of these sections. First, the rapture. The rapture is pretty much the first event that really kicks off our end times clock. Then, the tribulation. There is a period of time called the tribulation. There are key events and persons that will come out and things will happen. So, we'll do the rapture. Then, we'll do the tribulation. And now, here we're going to talk about the earthly kingdom. Now, I can tell you this because we just started talking about it. Diane, Jesus is going to come back to earth and rule on the throne of David because God already promised it's going to happen. That's the earthly kingdom. Jesus actually comes back to earth and rules from Jerusalem as the forever king that was promised all the way back in the Old Testament. Then, we get to final judgment. Final judgment is the part that everybody's most scared about. When everybody has to stand in front of God and it's kind of like a hell no hell, it's like a go no go thing. Like, that's the part that everyone thinks about. But the reality is all of this has already happened. By the time I get to hear a period of at least 1,000 and seven and a half years have already passed. Just for these first three weeks, there's already 1,007 years that have passed before I get to hear then the eternal kingdom. Tomorrow, isn't it the hope of the church that we get to live with Jesus forever? Not just for 1,000 years. Not just like, oh, Jesus, thanks for the holiday, back to earth. No. When we get to live with Jesus, it's eternal. It's forever. So we must establish there's a difference between God's earthly kingdom and his eternal kingdom. And then we're going to end out the series with a Q&A. I know this is a huge topic. If I'm perfectly honest with everybody this morning, I had to ask everybody to pray for me because I was super nervous that I was going to screw up this morning's message. Because there's just lots of details. And those of you who know me, I'm the ADHD guy. My wife is the detail guy. You want details done right, you call Melanie. You want ADHD stuff done right, you call Bill. So this is really what I'm saying the key events that happen in the end times. I want you to know the end of the world is not a moment. You're not going to just, like if you accidentally take a power nap and miss it. The end of the world in the Bible is a series of events that play out. And the reason those events play out are the promises we looked at today. National Israel is due some promises from God. In the Old Testament we call those covenants. But God made some covenants with his people, with national Israel, that are still outstanding and need to be fulfilled because they're from the word of God. As those promises begin to play out, now in your head you should have a little bit more of a frame of what to expect. Now when we go and next week we start talking about the rapture. Now we'll get into how do some of these things happen. But I want you for the next six or whatever, however many weeks that is, six plus today seven. So for the next six weeks I want you to keep that puzzle in your mind. Abrahamic covenant, Palestinian covenant, Davidic covenant, New covenant. This is your framework by which to interpret the end time stuff. Because the problem is Doug, without a framework, let's be honest, there are some people that make some weird theories. I have come across some very creative interpretations. Because the problem is when you start jumping off book, Kevin when you all of a sudden decide the church replaces national Israel, how do you give the church the land that was promised to Israel? Like when you understand the land is actual land, when it's physical possession of land, why does the church need a physical possession of land? The only reason is you have to continue to believe the church replaces national Israel. That's why some of these things are super important. So God made some promises in the Old Testament. The Abrahamic covenant, the Palestinian covenant, the Davidic covenant, and the New covenant. And they are our guide, our framework for examining how God is going to play out the end times.