Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Wow. Hello. Wow. I felt like I was in Jermaine Arena for just a second. You feel that? Boom, boom, boom. Hi guys. You remember me? Good deal. It's like going to a family reunion. Not that I've ever been to one, but it's like going to a family reunion or seeing that niece or nephew that you haven't seen in like 10 years. You remember me? So I know it's been a while since I've spoken to you, but today is the day. So hello. Welcome to the C3 family. If you've never been here before, we're the coolest church you ever been to in your life. So just note that. Note that on your connection card today. This morning we are at the C3 family. We're beginning a brand new series entitled Pillars. Pillars. Strong faith starts here. And we're going to be talking about the five pillars of our faith. The five foundational truths about Christianity. There was a movement that transformed Christianity forever. Anybody know what that was called? Yes. Protestant Reformation. And they were all about getting back to the basics or getting back to the truth about Jesus. They were tired of what the church was doing with the church and they were saying, come on, let's get back to the basis. The performers' theological convictions about the essentials of Christianity are founded in these five solas, they call them, or the five pillars of our faith. Five pillars are the foundations of our faith. And so I'm going to read them all to you today, but we're going to talk about just one of them. The first one is called sola grazia. These are Latin phrases, so I'm going to try my best with the Latin. Yes, and it's by grace alone. Sola grazia. There's sola fide. Sola fide. Only faith. By faith alone. There's solus Christus. Christ alone. Sola scriptura. Scripture alone. And then soli deo gloria. To the glory of God alone. Yes, these are the five foundational principles or the five foundational pillars of our faith. And the reformers were urging the church to get back to these basic truths about what the Bible really says to do, what Jesus was really saying to do in the Bible when he was on the earth. And if you didn't know, if you didn't realize already today that there are people in our midst, in our country, in the world that are teaching things that aren't true. I don't know if you knew that or not, but it's true. There are people that are teaching things that aren't true. There's false teachers. And there's people actually in church today that actually believe lies about God, about who they are as a Christian, about church, about Christianity, about heaven and hell. People are believing things that they're being taught. Lies. Far from the foundational truths of Christianity. And I think for all of us today, it's a great time to think about what we believe and determine if what we believe fits within the five truths, the five pillars of our faith. So all of our faith will be tested in these next few weeks as we think about and as we examine our own lives and say, is my belief, is this belief that I have aligned with what the five foundational pillars of our faith are. There's a key thought in this series that we're all going to read every single week and it says this. A healthy Christian life is guarded and guided by a firm foundation. The firm foundation that we have in Jesus or the knowledge that we have in Jesus, the firm foundation helps us guard against false teaching and helps us be guided through life. Guard against false teaching and guided through life. That's the firm foundation that does that for us. And that's how we have a healthy Christian life. So today we're talking about sola gracia. Say it with me. Gracia. Kind of like gracias in Spanish but not so much. Sola gracia, which is by grace alone. So if we're going to talk about grace, we've got to define grace. Is grace a person? Is grace just a prayer that we say before we have a meal? A lot of people say grace or blessing. Or is it something much more than that? Is it something we just give away like when someone's having a hard time, we just give them a little grace like it's ours to give? Or is it something bigger than that? Is it something way bigger than that? What in the world is grace? Merriam-Webster defines grace as this. An unmerited divine assistance given humans for their regeneration or sanctification. A lot of big words there. And that's it. That's the definition. But even in that definition, there's so much more value for our lives as we think about grace and as we apply it to our lives. So on the back of your bulletin, you have a few blanks that you can fill out with me today as we go through today's message. So that it helps you remember and helps you apply different things. As you go home, you can look over the notes again. So the first blank this morning is this, that grace is unmerited. Unmerited. Right from the definition, grace is something that we receive that we didn't deserve. That's in its very definition. Grace is unmerited. Grace is something we get that we don't deserve. Scholars define grace as unmerited favor and divine enablement. Unmerited favor and divine enablement. Yet some in the church still think that they have earned their salvation. Some people still think that they have done something to earn favor with God. They've done enough right things, they've done enough good things to make their relationship with God the way that it is today. Their salvation, their favor with God. And our culture and society thinks the same thing. The kids growing up, the sense of what? Entitlement. That every time you go to the store, you get something. That's not a good thing. And so our kids are growing up like that, so they're going to Target every time with their parents. They always get a toy at Target because I deserve it. Guess how good of a person I am. Well that just continues through life when you go to church and say I deserve heaven. I deserve good things in my life because I've been a good person. Sense of entitlement. Yet grace is unmerited. Grace is something that we get that we don't ever, ever, and we will ever deserve. The grace that we receive from God is because of nothing we have done. Isn't that awesome? The grace we receive from God is because of nothing we've done. The grace that makes possible a relationship with God. The grace that makes possible heaven as our home one day and life abundant here on earth. That grace we've done nothing to get. And in the book of Isaiah in chapter 64 verse 6 it says this. We are all infected and impure with sin. All of us. There's not one person that's good. When we display our righteous deeds they are nothing but filthy rags. So even the greatest things we could ever do are equated to filthy rags or as the literal translation would be menstrual clots. Our greatest acts are nothing but dirty old rags. The Bible also says that while we were yet sinners, while we were still in our sin, Jesus died for us. He didn't wait for us to be cleaned up, to try to be perfect. He died for us right where we were. In our sin. In the midst of our sin. What an awesome thing. You know God is perfect and the only way that we ever have a relationship with God or be able to go to heaven one day is that if we were perfect ourselves, to match God. Did everything right. If we did all the Ten Commandments and never broke one of them, we were perfect in our lives then we would deserve heaven. But guess what? We've all messed up. We've all done something against God's word, against the Ten Commandments, and we're all doomed to that. None of us are perfect. So grace is the most valuable thing you'll ever experience in your life. Because it's something that we never even deserved in the first place. Titus says this, Chapter 3 verse 7. Because of his grace he declared us righteous and gave us confidence that we will inherit eternal life. Because of what? His grace, his unmerited favor. His grace, his unmerited favor. He declared us righteous and gave us confidence that we will inherit eternal life. It's nothing we've done. It's all that he's done for us. And his decision to give us grace. If there was no grace there would be no Jesus. If there was no grace there would be no heaven for us. There would be nothing in this life that's good. It would just be doomsday for all of us. Forever and ever and ever. So thank God for grace. Number 2, your second blank this morning is this. Grace is consistent. Grace is consistent. Unlike most things in our lives, there's chaos, there's always consistent change. But like most things in God's character, grace is consistent. It's the same. It's always there. It'll always be there. It's awesome. For the time being it keeps going and is never, and is offered to everyone. Because it's not dependent on us. Even if we are not faithful, God's faithfulness endures. Or God's grace endures. The grace of God remains. And Paul, as he's closing his first letter to the Thessalonians in the book of 1 Thessalonians, he is encouraging them to grow and for God to help them. And one of the last things he says to the Thessalonians in the first letter to them is this. In 1 Thessalonians 5.24 it says this. God will make this happen. They're growing and they're encouraging. God will make this happen for he who calls you is faithful. God is faithful. And no matter what happens in our lives, we can always rest on the fact that God is faithful. God is faithful. It doesn't matter what happens. God is still faithful. His grace is faithful. In 2 Timothy Paul continues to write, 2 Timothy 2.13 it says this. If we are unfaithful, he remains faithful for he cannot deny who he is. That's pretty cool. So grace is unmerited. We don't deserve grace. And grace is consistent. And doesn't depend on anything we do. Thank God. Grace is consistent. If we aren't faithful, he remains faithful. And if grace is in his character, then grace also is faithful. Hopefully that's a freeing thought this morning and encouraging to you as we think about God's grace. And it being consistent despite us. Despite our actions, our thoughts, his grace is still there. It's consistent. The third blank this morning is this. Grace is complete. Every time I say grace, I think I'm thinking of a person now because of that video. But grace, God's grace is complete. Not only is God's grace consistent, but it's complete. It's all. It's everything. It's all over the place. It covers all and it is all. In Ephesians 1-7 it says this. He is so rich in kindness and grace that he purchased our freedom with the blood of his son and forgave our sins. He is so rich in kindness and grace that he purchased our freedom with Jesus. And if he forgave our sins, what of his grace? His grace is consistent and complete. That means when he forgave us our sins, he forgave us how many of them? All of our sins. Past sins, sins we didn't realize we did. Present sins. And guess what? Even the future sins are forgiven. Because of Jesus' death on the cross. Because grace came down and saved us. Just a really awesome thought to think. That all of our sins, not just the, you know, you think all the ones in the past are forgiven because you can't go back to the past. And all the ones today are forgiven because if you prayed and asked God to forgive you, then you're forgiven today and you're forgiven in the past. But to be forgiven in the future too, like, that's just amazing. That is incredible to think. That we don't have to do anything. But be with Jesus and we are forgiven. And in 1 John 1, 9 it says this. If we confess our sins to him, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all wickedness or all unrighteousness, the other translations would say. How much unrighteousness or wickedness? All. And how much is all? None of our students are here today, but I tell them what I learned in college. I'm talking about the scripture and whenever we see the word all, you have to say this. And hopefully you'll see this from now on. All means all. And that's all all means. That's it. It's all. It's every single one of them is forgiven. All means all. And that's all all means. There's no other meaning to all than all. You're welcome. That was free. That was free. You see, as a Christian, as a believer in Jesus, as one who is saved, our sins don't keep us from going to heaven. I don't know if you knew that or not, but if you were saved and you sinned today and you died today, you'd still go to heaven. Our sins don't keep us from heaven. Our sins keep us from a real intimate relationship with God. That's what our sins keep us from. So if we sin here on earth, we're distancing ourselves from God, farther and farther away. Our sins don't keep us from heaven, but they keep us from a relationship with God. That's what happens when we sin. And that's why we can say our past, present, and future sins are forgiven. Because all of us are forgiven if we believe in Jesus. If we trust in Jesus as our Lord and Savior. And our sins keep us from having a relationship with God. Not from going to heaven. God's grace is complete and that is sufficient. It is all we've ever needed in life. I don't know if you noticed this morning, but just about every song that we sang today had the word grace in it. Grace is sufficient. It's all we ever needed. It's amazing. All these lyrics that we sing about God's grace being the thing that lifts us up and that keeps us going. God's grace is sufficient. It's all we ever needed. In the Bible, even says, Jesus says, my grace is sufficient for you. Paul says that actually, but God says, my grace is sufficient for you. Even in your weakness, you are strong. Even if you are weak. In 2 Timothy chapter 2, it says this. And this is just the first part of the passage, but it says this. Be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus. I hope you're following me here. Grace is unmerited. Grace is consistent and complete. Even so, that it gives us strength when we need it. How does grace give us strength? Well, God's grace is unmerited, which means that we didn't earn or deserve any of it. And what is that? What is it? Jesus coming to die for us. All of our sins being washed away. Peace on earth. Peace in my life. Joy in my life. I'm happy because of Jesus. I look forward to the future because of Jesus and what he's done in my life. All of these things, the grace that God has given us, what we didn't deserve, is strength to us. Even in the dark days of our lives. When we have a troubling day or we have something going on in our life, we can always look to God's grace. And hopefully God's grace will give us the strength that we need to get through that day or that difficult time in our lives. So not only is grace and marriage consistent and complete, but it strengthens us. It's complete in that it covers everything, but it also gets us going and makes us strengthened. Number four. Fourth blank this morning. Grace doesn't erase judgment. Some people spell judgment with the E at the end of it. Some don't. So I picked the one that didn't because it was the last time. Grace doesn't erase judgment. In Hebrews 12.6 it says this, and a lot of you will know this. It says, for the Lord disciplines those he loves, and he punishes each one he accepts as his child. So even though there's grace, there's things that we didn't deserve like Jesus, God still disciplines or he still punishes those that he loves. If he didn't love you, he wouldn't discipline you or he wouldn't punish you as a good parent. As a good parent you discipline your kid. As a bad parent you don't. As a parent that doesn't care about their kid, doesn't love their kid, you don't discipline them. That's just how it is. God says here, for the Lord disciplines those he loves and he punishes each one he accepts as his child. In grace there is room for discipline. There is room for consequence. If we sin in this life there may be physical consequences that we have to deal with. Just because we sin we can say, oh there's grace, Jesus thank you Lord. I'm going to keep sinning because grace is so good to me. No. And the Bible even says that. Paul even mentions that very idea. No, you don't just keep on sinning because grace is there. You're obedient to God because you love Jesus and he's changed your life. And the grace there gives you the strength. He changed us and our obedience pleases God. That's why we don't sin no longer. That's why we don't have a characteristic of sin in our lives any longer. Because we want to be more like Jesus. So when we sin, yes there is grace. But there's discipline as well. There's consequence when we sin. I don't know if you guys have gone through physical consequences or spiritual consequences in your life because of your sin. Yes there is grace but yes there are consequences. And yes there will be a time when grace is no longer for man. When the clock strikes and Jesus comes back there is going to be a time of judgment for those who don't know Jesus. And there will be no more grace extended. That's an incredible truth and hopefully is one that will urge you to share your faith with those around you. What an urgency it is to know that one day it's all going to be over. And people will go to heaven and there will be judgment and people will go to hell. It's very real. But today there's grace. Right now there's grace offered to all. The last blank this morning is this. Grace makes the way for salvation. Grace is unmerited which means it's unearned. Grace is consistent, complete. It doesn't mean there's no judgment or it doesn't mean there's no consequence or discipline. And it does make the way for salvation. Ephesians 2, 8, 9 says this. God saved you by His grace when you believe. And you can't take credit for this. It is a gift from God. Salvation is not a reward for the good things we have done so none of us can boast about it. God saved you by His what? His grace when you believe. By grace alone. Sola, grazia. By grace alone. Contrary to what other religions believe and what other people believe. Grace is the thing that makes it possible. Grace. And then gave us Jesus. That's awesome. God was moved and offered us grace. He didn't have to but He chose to. And your last scripture today is this. Romans 11, 6. It says this. But if it is by grace it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise grace would no longer be grace. Pretty straight up isn't it? Otherwise grace wouldn't be grace. If it was really about works. And I want to read you guys a excerpt from, I think it's from someone's blog. I don't know if you guys know the guy's name. His first name is Tulian. He is the grandson of Billy Graham. And his last name, I'm not going to try to say it. But if you Google Tulian, he's a pastor on the other coast. And awesome guy. And he wrote this about grace. It is one way love. Grace is a divine vulgarity that stands caution on its head. It refuses to play it safe and lay it up. Grace is recklessly generous, uncomfortably promiscuous. It doesn't use sticks, carrots, or time cards. It doesn't keep score. As Robert Capen puts it, grace works without requiring anything on our part. It's not expensive. It's not even cheap. It's free. It refuses to be controlled by our innate sense of fairness, reciprocity, and even handedness. It defies logic. It has nothing to do with earning merit or deserve-ness. It is opposed to what is owed. It doesn't expect a return on investments. It is a liberating contradiction between what we deserve and what we get. Grace is unconditional acceptance given to an undeserving person by an unobligated giver. It is one way love. Okay. That's good. I could just read that and be done. The fastest church service we've ever had. It is one way love. It is one way love. That's exactly it. Just that picture of that one-way sign on the street. One-way love that God made a way for us to have a relationship with him again. So in conclusion, there are two people that will be here for the next few weeks. There's two types of people. There are the people that are here and that are learning a lot of different things about Jesus and about God. And as we go through the different foundational truths about our faith, about Christianity, there's potential for you to come and just hear and see about these foundational truths of our faith. And then it's up to you. You just learn a lot of information. Or there's people that come and have the potential to completely be changed, their life be changed by what we're talking about, by the experiencing of these five foundational truths. So I wanted to ask you this morning that have you experienced grace? Have you experienced God's grace for real? For your own life? And not just talk about it. You can say all the right things and know all the right scriptures and be able to come up here and preach just like I would. But have I or have you really experienced grace? Have you really trusted Jesus as your Savior and began a relationship with God? It's the greatest relationship you'll ever have in your life. And nothing else will fill the void other than God's grace and a relationship with God. God's grace is what makes it possible to have a relationship with God. So that's a great question that we have to ask everyone today and ask our family members and say, have you experienced grace for yourself? It's easy to talk about it. It's easy to say, man, grace is good. God is good. Ain't God good? It's easy to say that, right? But it's different when you say, have I, myself, experienced grace? Unmerited favor from God. Have I experienced that? Have I really began a relationship with God? And so if you're in the room today and that's you and you say, man, I just, I don't think I've ever trusted you. I don't think I've ever began a relationship with God. I don't think I've ever experienced grace for myself. And I'd like to do that today. And I want to encourage you. If that's you, I want you to put out your connection card. On the back of your connection card, there is a place that I think it says, rededicate my life or begin a relationship with Jesus, whichever one that you fit into. Circle in that circle, beginning life with Jesus or rededicating my life with Jesus. And I would love to talk with you and pray with you more about that. If you want to talk more about it today, I'll be more than willing to talk more about it to help you begin a relationship with Jesus. It's not hard. It's really easy. Because grace. Nothing that we've done or we ever could do. So on the back of your connection card, you'll see those little circles there, beginning life, rededicating, fill those in. And we will definitely get back with you. And if you want to talk about it today, that would be awesome too. But at the left of the card, you'll see some next steps. We want everyone at every C3 service to take a next step. A step you take to grow in your faith, become a friend of Jesus, and to apply the principles of today's message to your life. So you take a next step, and you read the five minute moments this week, and you're really getting into grace. And you're really getting into what we've been talking about in the last few minutes. So our next steps today are this week, I will study further into God's grace. Really open-ended task there for you. Getting into God's grace, Googling God's grace, looking at all the scripture that has the word grace in it, or different books about God's grace. God's grace is everywhere, literally, in literature, in books, in sermons, and even in audio books. You can find God's grace everywhere. So a really easy next step. You just have to do that first step in searching for something to get into. Second, this week I will encourage someone else with the truth of God's grace. Great way to introduce someone to Jesus, or to just give someone a card and say, man, I'm praying for you. God's grace is the thing that strengthens me in this time, or whatever you want to say. And encouraging someone else with the truth of God's grace. Third, this week I will discuss God's grace with my family. Great discussion over dinner, over breakfast, about God's grace and what it means for you, what it means for me, and how we apply it to our lives. And then I will memorize Ephesians 2.8, and that's the verse that says, For it is by grace you have been saved, not of your own works, but grace. Memorize Ephesians 2.8. And on the upper right hand corner you see there the different upcoming events. If you're interested in any of those, you can sign up for those as well. Right on this connection card here. So if you don't mind, we're going to prepare for today's offering as well. So if you put your connection card and your offering together, prayer card if you want to send that in, or if it's blank even you can drop it in there so we can recycle those. Or your pen if you don't want it, and your envelope. Get all those things ready. Thank you so much to those who give, seriously, anything. Your time, your finances, because it really does make a difference in our church. And I hope you know that. These chairs are a testament to that. These cushy, tushy chairs. What we have is a testament to that. The lives that are being changed are a testament to you giving financially to your church, or you helping without finances. You just helping us set up and tear down. It makes a humongous difference. You don't even know. Years ago when C3 was Christ Community Church, it seemed like the pastors did everything. I don't want to be a pastor, man. They've got to do everything. And finally, we have a church where we all work together. The pastors don't have to do everything. We have teams, we have people that are setting up and tearing down, and I just don't have to be here. I can just be at home and know that church is going to be set up for me tomorrow. It's just an incredible thing. You've never experienced it because you've never gone from the dark side to the bright side. But I have, and what an amazing thing it is to know that people are on board and helping and making this happen every week. So thank you to those who do that. Thank you to those who give financially. In check and cash, via eGiving, through the text giving or the website. Thank you, thank you. You make a huge difference. If you have finances and you aren't giving, I have to ask you why. What is it? You need from giving to God, your finances. Everyone got quiet. But it's a real and a good question for you. And if it's something like you're giving somewhere else, that's cool. If it's something like you don't like something that we're doing, I'd love to know who that is. Because we want you to be believing in our vision. We want you to be in with us on this mission and helping us go further in our community and bringing more people in. Okay, that's enough. Let's pray and then we will collect all those random items from your hands today. Jesus, thank you so much for this morning. Thank you so much, God, for the opportunity to be here, to hear from your word. We are challenged by grace. God, help us to really realize what grace is all about. That we would understand, God, that it's nothing that we deserved or earned. God, that it is always there for us. It's consistent. It's complete, God. It doesn't mean there's no judgment or discipline, God. And that was the way that you decided to help us have a relationship with you again. Thank you so much for grace. We just pray, God, that you would help us, God, as we think about and as we continue to plan our church, God. We pray that you'd help us to give financially if we're able to, or help out with muscle work if we're able to, God. We just pray that you would give us wisdom on how to do that. God, thank you for everyone who does give of their time, of their finances. God, so that we can be a church that's alive and real for the dying community around us. God, we need you. We ask that you'd help us. Give us the strength. Give us wisdom. Discernment, God. Thank you for every person here today. Bless him. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.