Good morning and thank you for coming to Christ Community Church this morning. We are going to continue our series entitled Jesus is Greater Than Religion. We started it last week. I think this is an incredibly important topic to talk about because there's a lot of confusion. You know, Sabina, what is the difference between Jesus and the religion that bears his name, Christianity? And how do we interface with Jesus and be a part of Christianity when I think without saying names or churches, we might all agree there are parts of Christianity that we don't agree with. I know that there are churches that I have seen some of their publications and even some of their online materials and I think to myself, wow, I'm a pastor and I greatly disagree with the way you're communicating that message. And unfortunately, there's a wide array of messages out there. So what I wanted to do with this series was specifically talk about Jesus. And what we're doing is we're going through and we're exploring several times where Ms. Anne, Jesus comes head to head with the religious leaders of his day. He challenges the idea, the construct of religion, whereas Jesus is teaching a relationship of faith. So if you look on the back of your bulletins, you'll see that there are some blanks here. This morning's message is entitled Greater Than Church. And yes, I need to put the air quotes in there, Jess, because there is this idea, this concept of church that I believe Jesus is greater than that. If you have your Bibles this morning with you, whether they be physical or digital, please turn or click or scroll to the Gospel of Matthew. That one should be super easy to find. It is the first Gospel in the New Testament. So Matthew. And we'll be reading in chapter 21. Matthew chapter 21. And we're just going to look at verses 12 to 16, a very powerful interaction between the Savior and the Jewish religious leaders of his day. Matthew chapter 21. I'm going to begin reading in verse 12. And I have it for you here on the screen in the New Living translation. So Matthew chapter 21, starting in verse 12 in the New Living. This is what it says. Jesus entered the temple and began to drive out all of the people buying and selling animals for sacrifice. He knocked over the tables of the money changers and the chairs of those selling doves. He said to them, the scriptures declare, my temple will be called a house of prayer, but you have turned it into a den of thieves. The blind and the lame came to him in the temple and he healed them. The leading priests and teachers of the religious law saw these wonderful miracles and heard even the children in the temple shouting, praise God for the son of David. But the leaders were indignant. They asked Jesus, do you hear what these children are saying? Yes, Jesus replied. Haven't you ever read the scriptures? For they say you have taught children and infants to give you praise. All right, let me give you your first blank this morning and then we're going to go back and we're going to sort of look at this a little bit verse by verse. So I think there's some very, very poignant things that we can pull out for our church life today. The first blank is this. Worship had become a system. Worship had become a system. And hopefully you still have your finger on or in your Bible. Let's look back at just verse 12. The opening verse of our passage this morning, Matthew chapter 21 verse 12. Jesus entered the temple. Stop. What's the temple? Where exactly is the temple? So we're all clear. This is the center of the Jewish faith in Jerusalem is what we would call Herod's temple, the one that Herod helped to rebuild in the first century. This is the center of Jewish faith, the center of Jewish worship. And he began to drive out all the people buying and selling animals for sacrifice. Stop there. In order to understand what Jesus is truly challenging, I need to expound a little bit on what is happening in the temple at this time. Most of us understand in the Old Testament, Moses laid down the law. Moses laid down the law and in the law there were certain sacrifices that were designed to forgive certain types of things. So you were obligated, Jonathan, to bring you and your family to the temple and bring a sacrifice with you to offer to God. Well, over time what had happened was they decided, Miss Julie, they decided to streamline some things. The Pharisees and the teachers, they realized, wait a minute, we have people traveling from all over. Doug, let's make it easier on them. Rather than making Jonathan and Allie bring their animal all the way from Oklahoma down here to Florida just to give a sacrifice, you know what? You guys just travel by yourselves. Just go ahead, get on some Delta, come on down here. We'll go ahead and we'll pick you up at the airport. And Dan and Judy, they have a stand to sell you the animals right here at the church. So rather than have to travel and bring one for you, Miss Diane, we're just going to make it easier. We know that you want to worship. We know you want to bring an animal. We'll just have one here for you. You can buy it from us and then go ahead and take it right in the temple. And then you don't have to check any luggage. Your flight should be so much easier. Little, you know, so on and so forth. Sounds super easy. That is what was going on. Now there's one other problem. You guys, and I'm just going to pretend that Oklahoma has a different currency. So Jonathan and Allie come down here from Oklahoma, but they've got the Oklahoma drachma. And unfortunately, we in the temple, we don't deal with the Oklahoma drachma. So before they can go over to Dan and Judy's stand and buy their animal, Chris, you work at a bank. They have to come over here to Chris and they've got to get their money exchanged. They would bring their Oklahoma drachmas. They would give them to Chris. Chris would charge an exchange rate. He would turn it into the currency of the temple. Then they could go and see Dan and Judy. Now do you see, Melissa, how something that started out with a good purpose, let's make it easier for people to worship by letting them buy their animals here, quickly turned into a system of profit. Because now, Jonathan and Allie, instead of just bringing the animal like they normally would have, now they've got to stop. They've got to go visit Chris at the bank, exchange the money, which by the way, Chris is a man of great character, but the person he's portraying took a big exchange rate off the top. Then they would go and they would buy from Dan and Judy before they would actually be able to go into the temple and make their sacrifice. And this is the system of church that's going on in the first century when Jesus is doing this. So Jesus walks into the temple, namely his father's house, right? If we think about the way the tabernacle and the temple, they are the picture of God's house. Now we in the church, we know that we are now the temple. We have the Holy Spirit resident within us. But Dan, Jesus hasn't died on the cross yet. He hasn't risen. Pentecost hasn't happened. The Holy Spirit is not resident in people like it is for us today. They have to go to that temple to interface with God. And now Jesus walks in and Miss Diane, instead of seeing this pure worship where Jonathan and Allie travel and they bring the animal, just think about the burden. Sabina, you're traveling with them. Who carries the sheep? Who carries the doves? Think about it. There was a burden involved for you guys to bring your sheep to the temple. We've eliminated all of that difficult travel stuff. We'll just trade your money. You can buy one here. Boom, Bob's your uncle. Congratulations, hummus for dinner and church is over. We've made it easier, but in making it easier, we almost, Miss Glenna, if I could use the word corporatized, we corporatized worship. That's the system that Jesus is walking into. So he begins by driving out Diane and Judy's selling stand of animals. He begins by driving out the selling of animals. He then knocks over Chris's table of the money changers and those selling doves. Jesus is clear. Worship should not be a system. Worship should be between you and God. It should be pure. Now, the way it was designed in the Old Testament, it was still between Jonathan and Allie and God. They brought their sacrifice. They did it. But by the time the New Testament showed up, we've corporatized the worship in the temple to where it's got all these extra steps. And yes, all these extra steps make money. Take a look at your second blank this morning. Prophet replaced piety in the temple. Prophet replaced piety in the temple. Let's take a look at the very next verse, chapter 21, verse 13. Here's the next thing Jesus says. He said to them, the scriptures declare my temple will be called a house of prayer. But you have turned it into a den of thieves. Now, Jesus is quoting from the book of Isaiah, specifically Isaiah chapter 56, verse 7, which in and of itself is a pretty cool read because if you were to read that section of Isaiah 56, Miss Jill, what you realize is Isaiah is mentioning Gentiles worshiping in the house of God. The full line there actually says, my temple will be a house of prayer for all nations. And the following verse says something to the effect of, though I have called my outcast children Israel back, I will also call all of the nations to my house. So it's a very powerful verse that Jesus quotes here. He's standing in the temple in the first century and he's almost kind of giving a backhanded admonishment to the leadership in the temple by reminding them the purpose of the house of God is the worship of God, not the making of money. And so let's go back into our story. Jonathan and Ali have traveled down here from Oklahoma. They bring their Oklahoma drachma with them and they stop off at the International Bank of Chris. Now Chris in the first century, not the one before us today, but the first century Chris, he realizes he has an advantage. They're from Oklahoma. They don't have the temple currency. He can pretty much charge them any exchange rate he wants and he's got a captive audience. Law of supply and demand, if I'm the only person with the supply, all the demand comes to me. So the money changers are taking a cut right off the top to change out the money before they can even get to the point that they're buying the sacrifice from Dan and Judy. So in a sense, Chris is stealing from Jonathan and Ali because of the great exchange rate that he's charging them. Then Jonathan and Ali eventually get the temple currency from the International Bank of Chris and they come over here to Dan and Judy's sheep shop. They come to Dan and Judy's sheep shop. Dan and Judy's sheep shop, lamb for less. Alright? So they come to the lamb for less. Where the sheeps are cheeps. Yes! That's even better. I like it. Dan and Judy's sheep shop where the sheeps are cheeps. Alright, so Jonathan and Ali, they come to Dan and Judy's sheep shop to come and get a cheap sheep. And here's the problem. Sounds good, right? Man, you're awesome. I love that. So Jonathan and Ali, they come to Dan and Judy's shop to buy an animal for sacrifice. Well, does anybody remember in the Old Testament, God was pretty clear about the kind of animal that he wanted used. He wanted the firstborn. He wanted pure. He wanted clean because he wanted his offering to be pure. Well, Dan and Judy have a business to run. There's only firstborn pure sheep in the sheep business. And if you want sheep for cheap, you're going to have to deal with whatever they sell you. So now we have another problem. Dan and Judy's sheep shop are selling less than high quality merchandise. So who are they cheating at that point? God himself. God himself desired a pure and holy sacrifice. And in the replacement of holy and pure, you're getting available and affordable. Now we're not only cheating the people who traveled in to make the sacrifice, we're also cheating God himself because Dan and Judy are selling less than quality animals. So now when Jesus says, my temple will be called a house of prayer, a place of worship, a place to interface with God. But y'all have made it a den of thieves because they were more interested in the profit that the church could make than the piety and holiness that the church was supposed to represent. Let's take a look at your third blank this morning. In the face of all of that, Jesus knew the purpose of ministry. Jesus knew the purpose of ministry. Let's jump right back in the story at verse 14. The blind and the lame came to him in the temple and he healed them. Now Ms. Anne, this seems to be like a kind of a funny line to stick right in the middle of this story. But this line tells us everything about Jesus' perspective in the temple. He walks in and he sees the corporatization, the privatization, the systematic sterile worship that is now going on in what was supposed to be his father's house. And he's indignant about it. He breaks down the system. And in the midst of all of this righteous indignation, Terry, he never forgets the real purpose of his father's house. It's almost like just through his actions, Jesus is again correcting the religious elite who have built the system to benefit them. And he said, no, no, no, guys, you're missing the point here. This is the point. This is the point. And so in the midst of all of this righteous indignation and this tearing down of the system, the blind and the lame are coming directly to Jesus. Notice that. He did not call the blind and the lame to him. They are drawn to him. If the Son of Man be lifted up, I will draw all men unto myself. Jesus is in the midst of his father's house. He is in the midst of his Holy Spirit anointed in empowered ministry. And that is drawing the needy to him. And in the midst of the temple, he schools the teachers on what the temple was supposed to be for. The blind and the lame came to him and he healed them on the spot. Now remember, Fred, first century Judaism, there is a certain point where the blind and the lame can't traverse in to the temple. You guys think about that. If you're lame, the best you could do is beg in the outer court. No, there's no disability act here. So look at this. Now, just Jesus is not only ministering in the temple, but he's ministering to the people that weren't, quote, good enough to make it to the inside where the religious people can minister to them. Jesus takes the standpoint that, guys, this is not what my church is about. It's over here. This is the point. Heal the hurting. Bless the broken. And in the midst of this huge correction, Jesus puts the focus where it should be. Miss Diane, there are still people that need Jesus. That's why Jesus needs to be the focus. In the midst of a system of worship, in the midst of the corporatization and privatization of money exchanging and cheap sheep, Jesus is the focus of his Father's house. He brings it back. And then look what he does next. Our next blank. The religious mentality is biased. The religious mentality is biased. Let's go to the very next verse, verse 15. The leading priests and teachers of the religious law saw these wonderful miracles and even heard the children in the temple shouting, Praise God for the son of David. Stop. Number one, let's give credit to the kids. The kids knew what was up. You ever heard the Bible refer to a childlike faith? Children don't have to stop and figure it out. Jonathan, when children see Jesus healing the blind and healing the lame, they immediately give praise to God. Why? Because they understood the point of what Jesus was saying. Sometimes you can overthink the Gospel to the point that you've unwound the Gospel itself. The children are looking at what Jesus is doing and they're praising God because these people who are blind aren't blind anymore. These people who were lame aren't lame anymore. And it doesn't matter if they're dirty or icky or sticky or not in the right place in the temple. They needed Jesus and he was there. And praise God for that. The children are the ones that realize this. And so they praise God and they say, Praise God for the son of David. Notice the S and the D are both capitalized. The son of David is a name. It's a term. Those of you who walked through the Gospel of John with me, you'll remember this. The son of David is a term for the Messiah. Why is the son of David a term for the Messiah? Because, Mr. Fred, I know you know this. One of the requirements for the Jewish Messiah was he had to be from the line of David. That's right. In order to be the promised Messiah of the Jewish people, he had to be from the line of David. Now, those of you who were here last October, which covenant is that? What heard it? The Davidic covenant. That's right. And does anybody remember what the Davidic covenant said? Keyword there, forever king. Keyword. I'll make you a forever king from your line. That was a promise from the Old Testament. The Davidic covenant required the forever king, the Messiah of the Jewish people, to be from the line of David. So when the children say this out loud in the temple, Jess, they are saying, Praise God, our Messiah is here. Praise God, our Messiah is here. The children in the church are praising Jesus as the Messiah. The adults in the church, the religious elite, the teachers, Ali, they don't get it, but the kiddos. That's why my son is learning how to pray. And if you ever come over for a meal, I can't tell you how long he's going to pray. I'm just going to tell you that right now. But we don't try to stop him because he's learning. He learns because he sees mom and daddy pray. He learns because we pray here at church. He learns by example. Jonathan and Ali were over the other night, and Colton and Micah were playing, and it was time to eat. And we all prayed, and Micah went, how did he open? He goes, Heavenly Father, thank you for the Holy Spirit. And this is his opener. And then he must have gone for a minute, a minute and a half. Which for a six-year-old, I was blown away. And I don't know if he was showing off because we had friends over, but it was pretty eloquent for a six-year-old. Thank you for the Holy Spirit and the Holy Ghost. Thank you, Lord, for our friends and our food. I mean, it was very simple sentences, but you could just tell, it was very heartfelt. It was very beautiful. To hear a child praising God is this pure, beautiful sound. Sabina, that's what's going on in the temple on this day. The adults are either standing back going, hmm, or standing back getting mad. And our kiddos are the ones going, praise God, our Messiah is here. The religious mentality is biased because of the last five words of this verse. But the leaders were indignant. That word literally means angry, aggravated, frustrated, teed off, whatever insert word you want to go there. They was agitated. That's my word. They was agitated. Now, what are they agitated at? They're not really agitated at the miracle. God, understand that. They're not agitated at the miracle. They're agitated at the children's response to it, specifically the words there, son of David. Praise God, somebody got healed. They wouldn't have had a problem with that. God heals. Even in the Old Testament, God is a healer. But all of a sudden now, Terry, we're going to attach this word son of David to it. Whoa! Because you've got to understand, to the religious leaders, Jesus is not a Messiah. He didn't do things the way they expected him to do them. So, Jonathan, he can't be the Messiah. Why? Because he didn't meet my pattern or expectation. That's really what they're saying. Melissa, that's really where they're at. No, he's not the Messiah because he didn't do it the way I wanted him to. He's not the Messiah. He didn't do it the way I expected him to. He's not the Messiah because he didn't do it the way I expected him to do it because my understanding of the word was wrong. That's the real truth. They misread God's word, created a false interpretation based on their misreading, and then when the true Savior stands in the house of God and heals the sick and the lame and the blind, only the kiddos say the real thing. Praise God our Messiah is here. But the religious leaders were indignant because their opinions, their views were biased because of the misrepresentation of Scripture. Here's your last blank. Scripture is more important than your opinion. Scripture is more important than your opinion. It is okay to say ouch. Scripture is more important than your opinion. Let's look at the last verse we read this morning. Chapter 21 verse 16. They asked, who they? The religious teachers of his day. They asked, do you hear what these children are saying? Like Terry, you hear this mess? For real? Do you hear what they're saying? Obviously their question has the tone of, are you going to say something? Are you going to correct them? Are you going to tell these kids that what they're saying is blasphemous? Do you hear what these children? Jesus replied, yeah. Dan, do you hear what these kids over here are yacking? Yeah. But then he gets right in their face with it. Look at this. Yes, Jesus replied. Haven't you ever read the scriptures? Right? Just hear that one for a second. Hear that one. Here's the son of God, the promised Messiah, standing in the middle of God's house going, Terry, ain't you ever read God's word? Like what he said to Nicodemus, you're a teacher and you don't understand these things? Miss Diane, haven't you ever read your Bible? Jesus has a little Bible. Miss Diane, haven't you ever read your Bible? Jesus has a little bit of attitude here. Haven't you ever read the scriptures? Because they say, and then he's going to give you a direct quote, you have taught children and infants to give you praise. That verse comes from Psalm chapter 8 verse 2. Psalm chapter 8 verse 2. And it literally says, you have taught children and infants to give you praise. In the midst of the religious system, would you like some water, Miss Diane? In the midst of the religious system and the corporatization of the temple, Jesus gets to the heart of the issue. He does real ministry. The only people in the whole house to get it right is kids church. The religious elite, Amanda, they want to get in his face. Do you hear what these jokers are saying? Yeah. Haven't you ever read the scriptures? Don't they say? And I guarantee you that all of them did not have 100% of the Old Testament on recall, but one of them probably knew this verse. And so behind their breath they're going, oh man. You know, you got Jesus right in front of you. Haven't you ever read the scriptures? Don't they say you have taught children and infants to give you praise? Ugh. You know, like what am I going to do with that? Because I can't disagree with God's word, right? That's the underlying thing he really hits them with. Lynette, he hits them in the face with the idea that regardless of your religious bias, I know you can't trump God's word. I know, regardless of how biased and skewed your religious opinions may be, Miss Jill, you don't get the authority or the right to trump what the word of God says. So Jesus uses the very words of God, the very, from their Hebrew scriptures, to correct them. Haven't you heard that children and infants are going to give you praise? I wish. Like there's a few moments in the Gospels that I wish I was there for. This particular instance is one of them. This instance is one I just want to be there and be like, like I guarantee you, oh yeah. Somebody's there going, burn! You know? Somebody's there going, ooh. And what I love about this is, don't forget the setting. This is the Son of God in the house of God, putting the man of God to school. It's the Son of God in the house of God taking the supposed man of God to school about what real ministry is supposed to be like. I love, love this. In fact, this one was going to be the message for last week. This one was supposed to be the opener. So how do we wrap this up and bring it home for today? Jesus challenged the religious mentality of his day by showing that worship should not be a system. Jesus challenges the religious mentality of today by reminding us, worship should still not be a system. Don't allow yourselves to get sucked into the Sunday system of, quote, corporatized or sterilized church. It is not enough to simply attend church on Sundays and check off the God box and be done with my week. Worshiping Jesus means purity and holiness must be more important than comfort and easy. Worshiping Jesus means that he is the lens through which we should view our world and not our personal bias or even scriptural incorrect readings. Worshiping Jesus means we should hold the words of scripture higher than our own opinions. That's how we bring this to today. Now I will be the first to admit there are some verses in the Bible, Miss Judy, that challenge me because I want to disagree with them. I'll be very honest. There are some passages in scripture that I struggle because my personal sense of morality or my personal opinions want to disagree with. So then in that moment you've got to decide for yourself whose words are more important, my opinions or God's scripture. This is probably one of the greatest challenges in my life growing up in the church. I knew a lot of the Bible as a kid. That doesn't mean I listened to a word of it. It just means I knew it. I could tell you story after story after story and praise God I still have a lot of those stories on recall. But Melissa, it's amazing how often God will move me to recount a Bible story to somebody and I'm schooling myself in the process of how stupid I've been. God uses all of those things that I have sucked away in my brain and when I have to kind of reach in the back and unpack one of them, it's amazing how in the process of encouraging someone else I end up correcting myself. So I will not want to stand up here as a pastor and claim to you that I have this all figured out. This message is as much for me as it is for all of us today. But let's be honest. Sean, let's just put down the churchy mask for a second. We've made church into a system in our country, in our culture. Church is a system. You come to church, sometimes you even just log in to church from your bedroom on your laptop or your iPad. You check off, you sang a song, you check off, you listen to a sermon, you check off, I gave some money, and then off to Monday, God I'll catch you next weekend. That is absolutely not what Jesus intended. And if this passage teaches us anything, it teaches us that Jesus should be above the system. Jesus did not die on a cross so you could show up at church once a week. Jesus did not forgive your sins so you could pray to him once a week. Jesus died for us so that we could have relationship with him daily, hourly, minutely if that's what you need. Listen, I've had some days where I'm like, Jesus. You know what I mean? You have that day, we're just like, Jesus, all up in this, because this is all up in this. Those of you who have had those days, you know exactly what it feels like. Jesus did not die and be the Messiah of all mankind for us to interface with him on Sundays when we feel good. You know what I'm saying? When we bring this passage into our context today, I want you to challenge yourself. Many of us would check the box on a form, yes, I am a Christian. But do the actions of your life bear out that that's the truth, or are you pretty much just a Christian on Sundays? Are you pretty much a Christian when you go to church, or does God's Word matter Monday through Saturday? Does the teachings of God's Word matter Monday through Saturday? Because if the answer to that question is no, be very careful. You're getting sucked into the same system that Jesus stood opposed to in this story. Don't make church, drive to church, drop off my offering, tear into my connection card, I'm good till next week. Don't do that. That is exactly what Jesus was against in this passage. Make church the time where you come together, we worship God collectively as a church family, and then you go home and you worship God individually as a Christian. Because I'll tell you what, Amanda, when you get to heaven and you stand before God, God is not going to reward you on anything any of us did. You will stand before the throne of God by yourself. You will be judged on your actions and yours alone. And that goes for all of us. I'm not just putting her on the stand. It goes for all of us. Yes, being a part of a corporate body is important. That's why I titled the message church in quotes. I don't want you to think that I don't want you to come to church. No, I want you to come to church and then be the church the other six days of the week. That is why Jesus is greater than church.