This month we are talking about monsters. Now, who knows what monster we talked about last week? The vampire. The vampire, that's correct. Does anyone want to guess the monster we're talking about this week? The werewolf. Does anybody? Okay. Like we did last week, can someone give me what is one thing that you know about werewolves from mythology or movies? They're what? They're fuzzy, okay. I think Nelson fits into that category, so that's a good one, they're fuzzy. What else? What else do we know about werewolves from movies and books? Silver bullets, right? They usually die with silver bullets. They have, is this fangs? I assume that's what, this wasn't like, haaah, fierce, this was fangs. Sometimes I have a different, you know, what's that sir? They transform under the full moon. I was hoping we would get to that one. What is unique about werewolves in most monster movies is not the fact that they transform. There are other, I mean even vampires, sometimes they can hide their fangs and appear normal and then the fangs come out. But what's unique about the werewolf is when it transforms. It's the only monster in most mythological monster lore that has a specific time that it transforms, specifically at night. Now you know what I find really interesting is the moon doesn't change, right? The moon's always full. It's not like part of the moon ever goes away. But it's only at night that we're able to truly see the full moon. So if you wanna fill in the first blank in your bulletin this morning, the monster in me, the werewolf of hypocrisy. The werewolf of hypocrisy. I chose this because the number one thing I thought of when I think of a werewolf is I think of something that is different at night than it is during the day. Right? A werewolf is different at night than it is during the day. It appears different. It responds different. It thinks different. It has a different set of motivations and one might argue a completely different morality at night than it does during the day. That is why I chose this particular monster to sort of epitomize or allegorize the concept of hypocrisy. Zadok, what is the definition of hypocrisy? Being one way somewhere and a different way somewhere else. So that's sort of the word picture I wanna paint this morning. As we examine what scripture says about hypocrisy, I want you to picture in mind the very, very dapper and often steampunk looking werewolf during the day and then at night it becomes this monsterly grotesque, flesh eating monster, but only at night. Then in the daylight it goes back to its regular hidden human form. One might argue, now here's the interesting question. Is a werewolf always a werewolf? Is it? Is it truly human or does it just appear that way? Because not all humans transform into monsters at night. Most were, and again I have to say, I just sort of love the werewolf. The vampire and the werewolf are my two favorite monsters. One of the reasons is why they're up front in the series. It's because I like them. Most of your monster movies will say that the werewolf, or if you want the technical term, lycanthrope, is always a lycanthrope. It just only appears different at night. It's hidden, it's concealed. You can't tell the difference in daytime, but at night all of a sudden its true form is revealed. Now, if you brought your Bibles with you this morning, whether they are physical or digital, please turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew. Should be fairly easy to find. The Gospel of Matthew is the first book in the New Testament. Matthew, I can't even go beyond Matthew, Mark, just Matthew. Specifically we're going to be in verse chapter 23, and we're gonna look at the first 12 verses of Matthew chapter 23. So Matthew chapter 23 verses 1 through 12. I have it for you here on the screen this morning in the New Living Translation. We're gonna take a look at another one of Jesus's teachings, this time specifically on this issue of hypocrisy. So Matthew chapter 23, we're gonna begin reading in verse 1. When Jesus then, Jesus said to the crowd and to his disciples, the teachers of religious law and the Pharisees are the official interpreters of the law of Moses. So practice and obey whatever they tell you, but do not follow their example, for they do not practice what they teach. They crush people with unbearable religious demands and never lift a finger to ease the burden. Everything they do is for show. On their arms they wear extra wide prayer boxes with scripture verses inside, and they wear robes with extra long tassels, and they love to sit at the head table at banquets and in the seats of honor in the synagogues. They receive respectful greetings as they walk in the marketplace, or they love to receive respectful greetings and be called rabbi. Do not let anyone call you rabbi, for you have only one teacher, and all of you are equal as brothers and sisters. And don't address anyone here on earth as father, for only God in heaven is your father. And don't let anyone call you teacher, for you have one teacher, the Messiah. The greatest among you must be a servant, but those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted. Now, I want to give you your first blank, and I apologize, there's a lot of blanks this morning. So if you look at the back of your bulletin, Dan, there just was not an easy way for me to make some of these points without giving you some blanks. So here's the first one. Religious hypocrisy is when you appear to believe, but do not behave like it. And I'll leave that up there for a minute, because there's several words you gotta fill in. Religious hypocrisy is when you appear to believe, but do not behave like it. Religious hypocrisy is when you appear to believe, but you do not behave like it. Now, what we're gonna do is we'll go back through and sort of break this passage down a little bit. Let's take a look at the first three verses of what we looked at this morning. Then Jesus said to the crowds, and to the people, and to his disciples, stop. Again, we always have to talk about, Miss Josephine, what is the context of what we're looking at here? The passage that we are reading is, in essence, one of Jesus's sermons, one of Jesus's teachings. But it's always important when you interject yourself into scripture, you have to get a full picture of what's going on. The full picture is not just that Jesus is teaching, but who he is teaching and who he is talking about. In this instance, Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples. We have two different groups of people. I'm sure most of us are familiar with who the disciples are. The disciples in this part of the Gospel of Matthew are the chosen people whom Jesus picked and said, hey, come follow me. Follow me and you'll be fishers of men. Or to Matthew the tax collector, come and follow me. Matthew the tax collector, the men who wrote this gospel. So we're talking about two separate groups of people. First are the people who have been selected and are already Jesus followers. And the other group is what we call the crowd. And if you do any reading in the gospels, whether it's John, Matthew, Luke, what you will find is the crowd is almost, Sean, it's almost like the crowd is its own character. The crowd represents those people who are interested enough to listen to Jesus, but not yet sure if they want to follow him. Do you understand? Jesus had an itinerant teaching ministry. He traveled around, he taught large crowds. Melissa, it would be unfair to assume that every person who listened to Jesus believed in Jesus. That would be an incorrect assumption. In fact, if you go to the two thirds through the Gospel of John, we noticed that at one of Jesus's teachings, Judy, several people, they just walked away. They said, who can handle this teaching? Dude, I'm out, bye. And they walked. So don't assume that just because this crowd is listening to Jesus, that they are automatically fully committed Jesus followers. What they are is, to use a modern day term, Jonathan, they're seekers. They're interested enough to listen, but not convinced enough yet to believe. So this is his audience. Jesus is teaching his disciples, his core people, that he is training, who eventually go on to lead the church and plant the church of Jesus Christ. But he's also teaching a group of people who are interested, but not sure that they're committed yet. This is what he opens with. The teachers of religious law and the Pharisees, stop. Notice he, again, when you're studying the Bible, you wanna look for specific terms. That word Pharisee is capitalized, why? Because it's a specific group of people. So now there's another group we have to talk about. Who are the Pharisees? The Pharisees are one part of the Jewish ruling council. Does anyone remember, what is the name of the Jewish ruling council? The Sanhedrin, thank you sir. The Sanhedrin is kind of like the Congress or the legislature of first century Judaism. They're the group of teachers who adjudicate and apply the Jewish law. And within the Sanhedrin, there are two factions or two groups. They're called the Democrats, no, they're not. No, that's not who they are. Does anybody remember what are the two groups that comprise the Sanhedrin? They're divided into two groups. The Sadducees and the Pharisees, that's right. The Sadducees and the Pharisees. And furthermore, does anyone remember what is the primary difference between the Sadducees and the Pharisees? There's one huge theological difference that separates these two camps. Now I'm really asking you to dig, anybody remember? How they interpret the law, but specifically the Sadducees do not believe in the resurrection, the Pharisees do. Now the Pharisees are a whole lot more legalistic in their application of religion than the Sadducees are. The primary difference between the Pharisees and the Sadducees is their belief in the resurrection. But the real difference is the Pharisees are very legalistic. The Pharisees take everything at face value and they invent their own law. In fact, they called it the tradition of the elders. The Pharisees invented their own quote law so that they would live even more holy and even more righteous and be like super Jew on top of the regular believers, super Jew. Like people try to be super Christian today. Well, the Pharisees are the super Jew of their day in their mind. And he's saying here that the teachers of religious law and the Pharisees are the official interpreters of the law of Moses. So practice and obey whatever they tell you. Notice the first thing Jesus does is he preaches the truth. Now, first question we have to ask. Why should I listen to the Pharisees if in the very next breath Jesus says that they don't even practice what they preach? Does the hypocritical actions of the Pharisees cause the word of God that they're teaching to become illegitimate? Exactly. Even though the Pharisees in and of themselves are locked into this legalistic hypocrisy, Jesus opens with the fact that Melissa, they're still teaching the truth. Regardless of the character of the teacher, the word of God stands true. That's where we start this morning. Regardless of the character of the teacher who's teaching, the word of God stands true. Nelson, I can't tell you how many times in modern Christendom we've seen people turn away from God because a pastor has a fall. And then they doubt the word of God because the character of the man delivering that word of God didn't stand up to scrutiny. It's sad, it's very true. It's sad, but it's a reality. So Jesus opens with this. Practice and obey whatever they tell you. And then the but, the biggest interjection here, but don't follow their example, for they don't practice what they teach. The Pharisees are the first century epitome of religious hypocrisy. They teach what is right. And that's what's super important, Melissa, is the Pharisees were correct in their teaching. They were wrong in their living, but they were right in their teaching. Why? Because they're teaching law. They're teaching the word of God. The word of God is always right. Regardless of the character of the individual who happens to be delivering it, the word of God is still right. Religious hypocrisy steps in when you appear to believe, when you have the outward signs of belief, when you go to church and you know the right Christian words to speak, and you know all the new hip worship songs, and you wear a cross jewelry, and you might even put one of those fish stickers on your bumper, and you're blessed Jesus. And you have all these outward symbols that you're a faithful believer. But you don't practice what you say you believe. That's religious hypocrisy. Now, before you all condemn yourselves to be hypocrites, please allow yourself some grace. We all make mistakes, okay? So I don't wanna go through this entire message thinking I'm calling every one of you a hypocrite. One of you might very well be, okay? So you know who you are, you're not off the hook. But for the rest of us, Miss Diane, I think it's fair to say we all make mistakes from time to time. Do you know what the difference is between a believer who makes a mistake and a hypocrite? The hypocrite doesn't believe they made the mistake. The humble believer recognizes before God I am flawed. Jonathan, regardless of the fact that I'm up here right now, you know I'm still flawed. And I like to believe that especially here in our church that you don't expect me to be perfect. You expect me to be humble. And in that humility, I can admit when I have my own failures. See, the Pharisee, the religious hypocrite, Miss Josephine, they won't admit they have failures. They'll find their way and talk their way around it to where their flawed and non-scriptural actions actually somehow exemplify godly character. Believe me, I've heard it. It is the biggest load of hogwash I've ever heard in my life. But I have heard people try to give religious explanations for irreligious actions. It just doesn't work that way. Religious hypocrisy is when you appear to believe, but you do not behave like it. Now, here's your next blank. We're gonna look at two major signs that you may be dangling near religious hypocrisy. Here's your first blank, or your second blank, excuse me. When actions and appearance overwhelm conviction and character. When action and appearance overwhelm conviction and character. I filled this thing with iced coffee before I left this morning. It's amazing. Bless you. When action and appearance overwhelm conviction and character. Let's take a look at verses four and five in our section. Now, this is still Jesus speaking, and he's describing now the actions of the Pharisees. Now, this is still Jesus speaking, and he's describing now the actions of the Pharisees. They crush people with unbearable religious demands. Stop. Sort of like... religious social pressure. Now, I don't want anybody to raise their hands, but I just want you to think from... This is what we call a rhetorical question. You do not have to answer this question out loud, and you do not have to raise your hand. But can you possibly think of a time in the ages of church past when you have visited a church and you felt this unsaid, uncommunicated, undercurrent of religious social pressure? Nobody has to raise their hands or point fingers. You can elbow your spouse if you want. It's OK. I can admit, I have been there. Melissa, I have visited a few churches that I got the distinct impression. Not that I wasn't welcome. I want to say that. I really didn't get the impression that I wasn't welcome. But I definitely, about halfway through the service, got the impression that I was not holy enough to worship with the rest of these people. That some part of me wasn't good enough on their standard of belief. It might have been my dress. It might have been my sarcastic humor. It might have... I showered that morning, so hopefully it wasn't the way I was smelling. But I definitely got the impression, Nico, that I wasn't good enough on some standard, on some scale, that I wasn't good enough to worship alongside of all these super holy people. And of course, I hope none of you have experienced that. But if you have, I super hope you haven't experienced it here. Because I think we have a pretty welcoming and friendly group of people. But if you can imagine, hopefully you've never experienced, but if you can imagine that unsaid religious pressure, that's what Jesus is describing here. They crush people with unbearable religious demands and then never lift a finger to help. They crush people with unbearable religious demands and never lift a finger to ease the burden. And then look at this, everything they do is for show. Everything they do is for show. The Pharisees are the epitome of religious hypocrisy because everything they do is focused on how you see them. Not if it's actually valuable or beneficial to their relationship with God or their development as a disciple maker. Everything they do is based on their appearance and the actions in order to appear a certain way. And when you begin to trade actions and appearance for true, godly conviction that develops character, you are skirting the edges of religious hypocrisy. On their arms, they wear extra wide prayer boxes with scripture verses inside, and they wear robes with extra long tassels. Okay, that seems to be pretty straightforward. I'm sure everybody gets that. So we'll just move on. Is there anybody who wonders why they were wearing boxes on their arms? To me, this is the biggest point of this passage. You have to remember, Miss Diane, Jesus is talking to a contemporary audience that he grew up to. There's no explanation needed. They understand exactly what this is. But to be truthful, when I studied this, I thought I did. I thought I had it right, but I still had to look it up. So let me show you, I wanna show you the two passages where the Pharisees get these ideas of the religious prayer boxes and the tassels. So the first one comes from Deuteronomy 6, verse 8, specifically, but here is verses four through nine so you can have a context. Deuteronomy 6, verse 8, Listen, O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord alone. And you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength. Sound familiar? And you must commit yourselves wholeheartedly to these commands that I am giving you today. Repeat them again and again to your children. Talk about them when you are at home and when you are on the road, when you are going to bed and when you are getting up. Tie them to your hands and wear them on your forehead as reminders. Write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. This is where the Pharisees got this idea that they were gonna be more religious than everyone because they took a super literal approach to what Jesus is saying here. You must love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength. Teach your children the word of God, to love God. These are all great things. But then rather than having the conviction and the character to take all of this to heart, they go straight to this one verse, they go, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna make me a small little wooden box and I'm gonna write a Bible verse in it and then I'm gonna put that box on my arm and I am more religious than all of y'all. And that's exactly what they did. They take a super literal interpretation to that verse right there and they actually would have these small scrolls that they would tie on their foreheads. And they'd walk around with this little wooden box. Yeah, I'm dead serious. And they did that and you know what? This showed, Nelson, I am more holy than you. That's what their interpretation of that wooden prayer box. They would write a scripture verse, roll it up, put it in a box and either tie it on their arm or a small one they would wear around their headband like never ending story style and it would just be right here. And that showed that they had more of a commitment to the word of God because they took it literally. Now, let's look at the second passage. It comes from Numbers chapter 15, specifically verse 38 but I got it here for you 37 to 41 so you can kind of see the big picture. Then the Lord said to Moses, give the following instructions to the people of Israel. Throughout the generations to come, you must make tassels for the hems of your clothing and attach them with a blue cord. When you see the tassels, you will remember and obey all the commands of the Lord instead of following your own desires and defiling yourselves as you are prone to do. God knew his people. The tassels will help you remember that you must obey all the commands and be holy to your God. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt and that I might be your God. I am the Lord your God. Dan, anywhere in that passage, does it talk about the length of the tassel? No, it doesn't. It just says, Put some tassels on the end of your sweater and remember that those tassels symbolize that you are the children of God. When we fast forward to the New Testament, what we find is the Pharisees reinterpreted this passage that whoever has the longest tassel is the most holy. Does that passage say anything about length? No, because why? Because we are not supposed to compare our holiness to one another. All it said was, put tassels on your clothing so that you will remember what? To obey the word of God. The Pharisees take these two passages and they interpret them in a literal sense so that as long as I tie a wooden prayer box to the arms of my clothing or wear it on my forehead or I add tassels that are longer than yours, the longer the tassel, the holier I am. Does any of that sound right to you? No, just as much as someone putting a Christian bumper sticker on their car to prove they're Christian. Or getting... My personal favorite is somebody who gets a Jesus tattoo or a scriptural tattoo, but nothing in their life exemplifies they love God. The outward action never changes the internal state. But if you reverse that and you let God change you from the inside out, the outward action changes by proxy of God's power. See, what the Pharisees were doing was getting so distracted by actions and outward appearance that they lacked the true conviction and character that God's word was supposed to do in them. Now here's your second, here's your third blank. This is a second test you can use for if you're close to religious hypocrisy. When the approval of men is more motivating than being pleasing to God. When the approval of men is more motivating than being pleasing to God. When the approval of men is more motivating than being pleasing to God. Let's look at verses six and seven. And they love to sit at the head table at banquets. Stop. This again, it really relies on a cultural understanding of how parties were thrown into the air. And it's not just about the head table at banquets. It's about the understanding of how parties were thrown in the first century Judean era. Miranda, can I use an example? Which one of your children has a birthday coming up next? Not till next year, okay. Okay, Riley, when's your birthday? May 25th, awesome, two days after my anniversary. Next May, Miranda is going to throw a, for first century Jerusalem. Next May, Miranda is going to throw a banquet to celebrate Riley's birthday. Except in this banquet that we're throwing for Riley, Miranda has sort of a signed seating. It's kind of like going to a wedding and everybody's got a table card. Miranda's going to pre-select where to seat all of the guests for her party. If you got sat at the head table, which would be right next to the primary guest of honor, in this case Riley, whoever sits on the right side of Riley is the most honored guest at the party. I.e., the person who means the most to the person who threw the party. That make sense? Riley is the primary guest of honor, it's her birthday. We are celebrating her. But Miranda's the one throwing the party. So even if it's Riley's birthday, Miranda's still going to choose who sits right next to her daughter. Who gets the seat of most honor? It's a ranking system. And so by choosing who gets to sit on the right side of Riley, Miranda is telling the world, this person, yeah, she's more important than y'all. That's literally what would happen. When someone would throw a banquet, they would select certain seats and they would use them almost in a political nature. I'm going to reserve this seat, this spot of honor because I need to show that this person is more important than everybody else. Now, does that sound like an acceptable way to throw a party? No. Now I'm really going to ruffle some feathers. But has anybody ever noticed when a local mayor or dignitary comes to church, they always get seated at the front? I've seen that in several churches. The local mayor or a representative, a congressman, even a state congressman. Or someone wealthy enough. I will give you an example of a church. Now, I will preface this by saying this is a horrible example that you should never follow. But in a town that I used to live in, there was a church that I never went to. There was a pastor who pastored the church I never went to, who did stuff I didn't agree with. He had a hospitality team just like ours. Dan, I think I've even told you this story. He had a hospitality team just like we do. People outside handing out bulletins, greeting people, making sure people feel welcome. Great idea. But you know what you didn't know about his hospitality team? In their pocket was a laminated card that had the eight most influential people in the town. Had their faces on a card. And he would hand the card to his head of hospitality and he would say, if any of these faces come, I don't care what I'm doing. You come and get me. And you sit them in this seat right next to me in the front of the church. Now, does that not sound exactly like that? I'm gonna take somebody who's more important than the rest of you. Either because of political agenda or the amount of money that they have or whatever it is. I have decided that Glenna is more important than everybody else in the room. So Glenna gets the special seat next to Riley. Either because she's a state representative or because she's richer than everyone else or because I just might wanna build a new church property and the land I wanna build it on is hers. Gotta be really, really careful about how that political nature comes in. But that's what was happening in this day and time. So the Pharisees love to get that special seat. They love to be seated there. Why? Because Nelson, it proves that they're better than everyone else. It just reinforces that which they already believe about themselves, which is, I am holier than y'all. Second, and they love the seats of honor in the synagogues. Same difference, there's one small change here. The seat of honor at a banquet is more of a relational superiority. The seat of honor in a synagogue is a religious superiority. When I take Miranda and I seat her in a closer seat to the head teacher in the church than say Zadok, what I am saying is Miranda is holier than Zadok. That's what I'm saying. We're ranking people over and over and over on these different scales. They love to receive respectful greetings as they walk in the marketplaces and be called rabbi. Now, I don't wanna get too much into the word rabbi because I'm gonna unpack that in my next point. But as far as respectful greetings go, we still do this today. I can't tell you how many people I know who do what I do for a living. And when you ask them what their name is, what's the first word out of their mouth? Reverend, pastor, apostle, prophet. Like, I just know so many people who can't even introduce themselves by their own name because their name starts with a title. Hi, what's your name? I'm Reverend so-and-so. Keep in mind, I think I've only been called reverend once in my 15-year ministry career. And it was when I first came here, somebody that my very first Sunday walking out the door, good sermon, Reverend, see you next Sunday. That's all he ever said, good sermon, Reverend. That term, reverend, pastor, prophet, apostle, we have a lot of different ranks and terminology in them today. And we use them as sign of respect. Now, what I try to tell people is, my name is Bill. I don't expect people to address me as Pastor Bill. When someone chooses to address me as that, it should be because what God has done in my life is helped pastor that person. It should be a sign of respect that's chosen, not one that is didactically demanded. I don't mind if somebody calls me Pastor Bill, or somebody will say, oh, that's my pastor. That's a sign of respect, and that's totally acceptable, but it's not exactly the same as the word rabbi. We're going to get into that in our next point. Here's your next blank. How do we combat the monster of hypocrisy? Number one, understand we are all equals in Christ and before God. We are all equals in Christ and before God. We are all equals in Christ and before God. Let's take a look at verses eight through 10. There's three things that Jesus points out in this section. Don't let anyone call you rabbi. Don't address anyone on earth as father, and don't let anyone call you teacher. All three of these words have very special significance in their context, so let me explain it. The first is don't let anyone call you rabbi. He referred to that in the previous verse. Here, let's explain this. The word rabbi in the first century does mean a teacher of the religious law. So in some sense, it is the same as calling someone pastor today, but there's one big difference. The literal translation, the literal meaning of the word rabbi, does anybody remember what it is? We talked about it a couple times. My master. That's a great translation. My master or my great one. Literally, it would be great one, but applicably, it's more my master. When you called someone rabbi, it was not just recognizing the position of teacher. It was submitting underneath of that person. Much like for you Star Wars fans, it would be like the younger Jedi submitting to the older Jedi. When you were to call someone rabbi, it's not just saying what they do for a living. It's saying this is my master. I'm putting myself underneath of this person's authority, of this person's teaching wholeheartedly. This doesn't, well, submit to rabbi so and so until he says something I don't like, then I'm going to go over here to rabbi, who's what. That's not how that worked. When you called someone master rabbi, it was for life. I submit fully and wholeheartedly to the authority of this man. You see why Jesus would tell us, don't do that. What does he say here? Don't let anyone call you rabbi for you have one teacher. Who's he talking about? Himself. Jesus is the only teacher. And you are all equals as brothers and sisters. That's why the understanding of the word rabbi is so important. Because if you understand that we're all equal in the body of Christ, there is no such thing as submitting yourself under another man, another human. Why? Because we are all equals underneath of Jesus. Second, don't address anyone here on earth as father. Now, take it out of context. This is exactly why people start harping on the Catholic church. Because they call everybody father this, father that. Technically, calling someone Father James is the same as calling them Pastor James in an evangelical church. The word father here does not refer to the Catholic church. Remember, the Catholic church didn't exist when Jesus was teaching in the New Testament. So what is the word father in this cultural context? It does not mean biological father. It means my leader, my guide, or more applicable, my mentor. Just like rabbi, that person that I go to for understanding, for learning, the person I submit to to become better or to become more godly. Don't address anyone here on earth as father, for only God in heaven is your father. It is only God in heaven through whom which we are perfected. Does that make sense? I'm not going to go to Dan to become holier. Why? Because Dan is a human, not that Dan's not a great cat and doesn't have a lot of wisdom, but Dan does not have the capability of making me holy. Only God can do that. So when he says here, don't address anyone here on earth as father, he's saying, don't let anyone else's opinion or authority mentor you above the value of the word of God. The third thing he says, don't let anyone call you teacher, for you have one teacher, the Messiah. The word teacher here does not just mean a person who instructs. There's a much deeper, more powerful meaning. And that is when I call someone teacher, for instance, who haven't I picked on yet? Doug. All right. Doug is the head of the synagogue in Cape Coral. Congratulations, Doug, you've been promoted. You're running Bible studies coming week, by the way. Doug is the head of the synagogue here in Cape Coral. When I submit to Doug as my teacher, I am not only submitting to his learning, to his interpretation of scripture. I'm not allowed to interpret. When I submit to a teacher, I must accept his interpretation. But when he thinks I have gained enough wisdom and knowledge that I am allowed to teach, I'm still not allowed to teach in my own authority. Whose authority do I teach under? Doug. Not the authority of God. I'm not teaching the word of God through the authority of God. I am teaching the word of Doug through the authority of Doug. That is why Jesus says you should not call someone teacher. For when you called someone teacher, what you are saying is, I am teaching because Doug has empowered me to teach. Does that line up with Christian doctrine at all? Do we gain our scriptural authority because of some human or some man's interpretation? Now, am I saying that study is not important? No. Am I saying that commentaries in and of themselves are bad? No. But do you honestly think a biblical commentary is equal and authoritative to the word of God itself? No. I don't think any of us do. That's kind of the same mistake that they were making here. When he says, don't let anyone call you teacher, for you have one teacher, the Messiah, it is through Jesus through whom we have the authority to share the word of God. Not Doug. Not that Doug doesn't do a very good job of exegeting the Bible. But it's not Doug's authority that's been granted to all believers. What did Jesus say at the end of the book of Matthew to his disciples? Go into all the world and what? Make disciples. Baptize and teach them all I have commanded you. The authority of the Christian to teach the word of God is rooted directly in your relationship with Jesus, not your relationship to your pastor. It is not my authority to whom I give you for you to study and learn the word of God. It is through Jesus' salvation that we have access to God. And it's through that relationship that you're able to teach and learn the word of God. It's super important because it stops you from putting a man between you and God. That's this whole problem that the Pharisees were locked into, was this quality by comparison mindset. Here's your last blank. Serving others guards against hypocrisy. Here's your antidote. When you looked at two key signs of possibly being near hypocrisy, here's your antidote. Serving others guards against hypocrisy. Take a look at how Jesus finishes out this teaching. The greatest among you must be a servant. That's probably one of the more popular things Jesus said. The greatest among you must be a servant. Now, the thing that I found most interesting as I was preparing this message was the word greatest. For the last like 11 verses, Jesus has pretty much been harping on the Pharisees for their desire to compare to one another. They're comparing the tassels, they're comparing the size of the prayer boxes, and yet here, Jesus uses that very same word, Jesus uses that very desire for comparison to point them on the right track. Okay, fine guys. If you're stuck wanting to compare to one another, let me point you in the right direction. The greatest among you must be a servant. Why? Because it's really hard to be arrogant and prideful when you're serving someone else. The attitude, the action of being a servant means you are automatically placing someone else's needs above your own. It's the foolproof recipe for dealing with prideful religious hypocrisy because it's really super hard to truly be a servant, not pretend to be a servant, not have some religious hypocritical, well, I'm the key servant because I'm the pastor, no, servant hood does not come with a job description. Comes with an attitude of the heart that I truly see myself as wanting to serve someone else, not I'm automatically the greatest servant because I have the highest ranking position. That's not exactly what Jesus is saying. The greatest among you must be a servant, but, and then he gives us this dichotomous relationship here. Those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted. Again, who is Jesus' audience? Who is he speaking to? His disciples and the crowd. He's talking to people who believe in him and people who are considering believing him. Who is he chastising? The Pharisees for doing what? For having all this outside religious activity and action and appearance, and nothing on the inside that really is developing the true heart of the believer. He finishes with this. Those who exalt themselves, which is who? The Pharisees. They exalt themselves by their own man-made standards. I have longer tassels than you. Hey man, hey Jeremiah, I got longer tassels buddy, I guess I'm holier today. They exalt themselves by the, hey, check out this new prayer box. It was on sale at Walmart. Styling. Trying to think of a way that people compare today. Not in our church, but there are some cultures where people compare the way they dress. I think about hats. Ladies in their hats. Those of you who have been in some church, everyone who's white in the room, just pretend you understand what I'm talking about. Because majority of the time it's a lot of black churches. They have these really big hats with huge feathers, and that's a means of comparison, right? That's a means of comparing to one another. We think about people who dress nicer or who are overt in their giving. I'm better than you because I can give more money or I drive a nicer car. I've even seen churches where they try to outdo each other with who can serve the church more. I didn't say serve God. I didn't say accomplish God's mission. But who can spend more time at the church or buy more things for the church or build more stuff for the church? And they try to compare that way to comparing through service. Those who exalt themselves by, notice Jesus didn't put a standard there. Miss Diane, whatever standard you think you're exalting yourself will end up being you're very humbling. But those who humble themselves, who accept their role as a servant, because keep in mind who is Jesus speaking to? Those who already believe in him and those who are considering it. And both of those groups, remember Jesus started out by saying, Dan, listen to the teachers of religious law. They're teaching the law correctly. They ain't living it right. Listen to what they say. Don't follow their example. Do this instead. Serve others. Humber yourself. And God will exalt you when he's ready. This werewolf of hypocrisy is a tricky monster to find. Because of course, as we all sit here on Sunday morning, we all look like normal Christian people. Right? We're all at church today. We all came. We all worshiped. We're all sitting here with our Bibles open, taking notes. Of course, none of us have the creepy, lurky werewolf right under the surface. You have to know I don't believe that, right? Like you know I don't believe that. I still have my own issues that I work through. So that means somebody in this room besides me has to be not so perfect. Either that or I retire. I'm out. Like if I'm just preaching to myself every Sunday, I'll just study at home in pajamas. I don't need to unpack the guitar and everything else. The werewolf of hypocrisy is so dangerous and so hard to catch because you have to be willing to be honest with yourself at night in the dark when no one else is watching. Are you still the same person you are at church? When you're home alone, when you're on the internet by yourself, when you're maybe sitting in a room full of people but you're trapped inside your own thoughts. If there was a speech bubble that could appear over top of your head and everyone else could see what you're thinking at any given moment, would you choose to think differently? Guilty. There is a reason God does not put a TV above Bill's head because no one would ever come to church again. Either that or people would come back and it would not be a good thing. I understand that talking about hypocrisy is uncomfortable. And again, I started out by saying just because you make a mistake does not make you a hypocrite. But if you don't recognize that it's a mistake and you just think it's okay, then yeah, you are the hypocrite we've been talking about. If you have activities, interests, likes, dislikes, areas of study and entertainment that you don't want the people at church to know about, I need you to consider the reality that you're the hypocrite. Now, what's the difference? The difference is the humble person who admits to God that I have fallen is not the hypocrite. The person who tries to justify it and explain it away, they're the hypocrite.