This morning's message is Paul, resume of a radical. Now this is really part two of the message we looked at last week. Last week we looked at when his name was Saul pre-conversion, pre-Damascus Road, and we looked at the radical nature in which Saul of Tarsus lived his life. Now we're gonna trade places a little bit and we're going to look at the same radical nature of the same individual but now with a completely different name. He, much like God has done in several other people in the Old Testament, God impacts this man's life in such an amazing and and just self-proclaimed way that he changes his entire life. Now if you have your Bibles with you, whether they be physical or digital, let's turn to the book of Acts. The book of Acts chapter 16 and we're going to look at one passage and then we're gonna sort of kind of break this passage down into some eatable chunks and take a look at it. So turn with me to the book of Acts chapter 16. We're going to begin reading in verse 16. So Acts 16 starting in verse 16 and I have it for you on the TVs in the New Living translation. So this is Acts 16 16 in the New Living. This is what it says. One day as we were going down to the place of prayer, we met a slave girl who had a spirit that enabled her to tell the future. She earned a lot of money for her masters by telling fortunes. She followed Paul and the rest of us shouting, these men are servants of the Most High God and they have come to tell you how to be saved. This went on day after day until Paul got so exasperated that he turned and said to the demon within her, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ come out of her and instantly it left her. Her masters hopes of wealth were now shattered so they grabbed Paul and Silas and dragged them before the authorities at the marketplace. The whole city is in an uproar because of these Jews, they shouted to the city officials. They are teaching customs that are illegal for us Romans to practice. A mob quickly formed against Paul and Silas and the city officials ordered them stripped and beaten with wooden rods. They were severely beaten and then they were thrown into prison. The jailer was ordered to make sure they didn't escape so the jailer put them into the inner dungeon and clamped their feet into stocks. Around midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God and the other prisoners were listening. Suddenly there was a massive earthquake and the prison was shaken to its foundations. All the doors immediately flew open and the chains of every prisoner flew off. The jailer woke up to see the prison doors wide open. He assumed the prisoners had escaped so he drew his sword to kill himself but Paul shouted to him stop don't kill yourself we're all here. The jailer called for lights and ran to the dungeon and fell down trembling before Paul and Silas. Then he brought them out and asked, Sirs what must I do to be saved? They replied believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved along with everyone in your household and they shared the word of the Lord with him and with all who lived in his household. Even at that hour of the night the jailer cared for them and washed their wounds and he and everyone in his household were immediately baptized. He brought them into his house and set a meal before them and he and his entire household rejoiced because they all believed in God. The next morning the city officials sent the police to tell the jailer let those men go so the jailer told Paul the city officials have said you and Silas are free to leave go in peace. Now I really I really do Doug I say this every week and I think it's just because I love the Bible in general but I love this story. This story is very indicative of the type of ministry that the Apostle Paul had. Now first thing to get out of the way Dan context who wrote the book of Acts anybody remember Luke that's correct. Acts is technically the gospel of Luke part two so as you can tell by the text Miss Diane we're reading this story in the third person that's why we're able to refer to Paul and Silas in the third person unlike last week we looked at Paul talking about himself in the first person this week this narrative is just it's just too good to pass up so we're gonna look at it in the third person. Let me give you your first blank on the back your bulletin and then we're gonna go back through this story and sort of break it down a little bit. Your first blank was this he was passionate about holiness he was passionate about holiness. Okay now I want to go right back to the text and we're gonna kind of break up what we looked at so let's like take a look at the first section we had there. Acts chapter 16 this is 16 through 18 a which is basically like the first This is what it said. One day as we were going down to the place of prayer stop just stop right there for a second. Who's the we? Paul and Silas obviously because they're the main characters and the author. One of the things you have to understand is Luke understood a lot of what happened in the book of Acts Melissa because he was there he traveled with Paul. If you take a look at the whole scope of the book of Acts you got the very very beginning the church is born and the Holy Spirit comes down and poof the church comes into existence. You've got a couple chapters of Peter you know the disciple Peter the guy who denied Jesus three times. You've got a few chapters of him and then the breadth of the back of the book of Acts is all about the Apostle Paul and the reason that Luke knows so much about Paul's ministry Ali he was there. He's not telling this story you know I heard from a friend of a friend of a friend. Luke is telling this story as a first hand witness. So one day as we were traveling down to the place of prayer we met a slave girl who had a spirit that enabled her to tell the future. Stop again. Remember this is a first-hand account. Terry we can almost look at this like a movie. Luke, Paul, Silas they're traveling through this town and all of a sudden they come upon this slave girl who has a demonic spirit within her that enables her to tell the future. Now the word slave there does not mean slave to the demonic spirit. She is owned by some other individuals and her gift the demonic ability to tell the future is what is sold by her slave her human slave owners. So this slave girl is following the Apostle Paul around and she earned a lot of money for her masters by telling fortunes. She followed Paul and the rest of us shouting these men are servants of the most high God they have come to tell you how to be saved. Now question is the demonically possessed slave girl correct? Yes that's super important to this narrative. She's not lying. She is absolutely telling the truth even though she is possessed by a demonic spirit who obviously does not want the word of God to be spread can't help but tell the truth. The reality is yes Paul and Silas were traveling in order to get people saved in order to plant churches so her statement these men are servants of the most high God who are telling you the way to be saved absolutely correct. Melissa let's go to the next slide. Let's look at the way the rest of this beginning plays out. This went on day after day stop. Ali this happened time and time again. This is not like one just random happen stance Paul Silas and Luke are walking down you know whatever Main Street is and this happens one time. This happened enough that Paul was exasperated, annoyed, frustrated, irritated. All of those would be correct words to use for that original word. This went on day after day until Paul got so annoyed, irritated, exasperated that he turned to the demon within her and said I command you in the name of Jesus come out of her. Now I don't have a full amount of time to get into the entire construct of demonology and how possession and everything works so let's just go with the text as it is. If you have any questions I will be happy to have a more in-depth conversation with you. The demonic spirit is inside this woman and he and it is giving this woman the ability to tell the future. Now that in and of itself I could take an entire rabbit trail because demons aren't omnipresent. They don't have the ability to know the future so the whole thing's really an ugly shell game but that would be a lesson for another time. What Paul is super annoyed with is this woman following them, Amanda telling the truth. So you got to ask yourself why is Paul irritated? This woman's following them. This woman in this town is known to have powers that tell the future. She's people pay money to listen to what this person says and yet here we have the Apostle Paul going, Sean will you please shut this woman up? Even though the statement that she's saying is correct. So then we got to ask ourselves why is Paul exasperated, irritated, frustrated with a woman who is following them around shouting a truthful statement about God? Because even though the statement itself may be true the source is not godly. Even though the statement this woman is saying is completely accurate the source of this statement is not godly and Paul understands that if he were to continue Miss Diane if he were to continue to let this go on day after day you have a big problem. All of a sudden the ministry of the real gospel of Jesus Christ begins to get intertwined with the ministry of demons and that's not good for the church. It's not good for the church in Acts and it's shown nothing good for the church today. So Paul, Jonathan, Paul has to make a choice. He's got to go listen. This woman is absolutely telling the future and probably getting some attention for Paul and Silas and Luke during this trip. But even with the benefits of that the drawback is Paul could not take the chance that his God-born Holy Spirit powered ministry could ever be associated with this woman's demonic powers. So for that reason there's his exasperation. Not the fact that she's lying. Not the fact that she's not accurate. That Paul is there to teach people how to be saved. Completely accurate. But sometimes truth even can be dangerous. Sometimes the truth of what this woman is saying if Paul were to let it go on day after day after day he's now mixing the church of Jesus Christ with this paid for rented out ministry of demons and Terry that's that's not going to be a good day for the church. You start mixing the church and demonology in the first century. Lord knows where we'd be today. So the first thing you have to understand about Paul he was passionate about holiness. What is holiness really? The word holy in the Bible means to be set apart. Generally speaking it means to be set apart for God. If you look in the Old Testament there were all kinds of objects that were set apart and they were sanctified for the use in the temple for the use by God. We get to the New Testament we find out that Jesus has come. Jesus dies to offer everybody salvation and Jessica now we through Jesus can be set apart to have relationship with God. This demonic slave girl is not set apart to serve God. She is serving the antithesis of God the enemy. So Paul cannot accept this woman's testimony. Julie even though it's completely true the source is demonic and the demonic source has no place in Paul's original ministry. So let's take a look at point number two. First Paul was passionate about holiness. Second he often faced persecution. He often faced persecution. Let's take a look at the very next few verses 18b to 22. Paul immediately he turns to the slave woman and he commands the demonic spirit to come out of her and instantly it left. No fights, no anything you've seen in movies, no fight, no holy water, no 360 head, no pea soup, nothing and instantly it left her. Her master's hope of wealth was now shattered. So obviously whoever the plural masters are here they're making decent money off of renting this girl's services for telling the future out. Her hopes of her master's hope of wealth is now shattered so they grab Paul and Silas and drag them before the authorities at the marketplace. The whole city is in an uproar because of these Jews they shouted to the officials. Take me to the next. They are teaching customs that are illegal for us Romans to practice. Stop. One of the statements that these slave owners say about Paul and Silas is true the other is false. Did we see anywhere in the text that the whole city is like in an uproar and a ruckus because Paul and Silas are there doing ministry? No. But Terry aren't Paul and Silas preaching about a new king? The king of kings? It is illegal for a Roman citizen to recognize any king higher than Caesar. In fact it's punishable by death. Amanda if you are a Roman citizen Caesar is your god. Now you can go to the temple of whoever but at the end of the day we have no king but Caesar. Remember what the Pharisee said when they crucified Jesus? Caesar is the top king. We can worship in all the different you know Delphic temples that we want but there's one king and it's Caesar or you die. It's a real easy way to keep your monarchy in power. You recognize me as king or you're no longer here. So they are preaching something that is illegal but you got to see they're really twisting the words right? Dan they're really twisting what they're saying. Number one the entire city is not in an uproar. There is not street by street riots and ruckus because Paul and Silas have decided to come to town to preach. That's the lie. But they are preaching something that can be misconstrued as illegal. So the punishment that they're about to get is I would say like halfway justified. If you only teach the part where Jesus is the king and you skip the whole salvation from sin no longer have to go to hell part of the church all the things we know today then Jessica yeah if all we talked about was Jesus is a king that is technically illegal under the law here. So then a mob quickly formed against Paul and Silas and the officials ordered them stripped and beaten with wooden rods. Now let's let's just call a spade a spade. Dan why did the slave owners have Paul and Silas beaten? Has nothing to do with what they're teaching. Has everything to do with they just took their income away. But what this is what's so beautiful what did Paul do for the woman? He set her free from demonic oppression and possibly from slavery because if these jokers can't make money anymore slaving this girl out to tell the future she just might get the freedom that she probably really wanted in the first place. Nobody wants a life of slavery but for the slave owner you have now taken away one of my most profitable assets. This is a problem for me. So the slave owners concoct this story and they twist the truth of what Paul and Silas are really teaching so that they can get them beaten out of revenge. Straight up revenge. Ali you take away my way to make money I'm gonna find a way to make you hurt some way or another. So I'm gonna drag you in front of this Roman magistrate and I'm gonna twist the truth just enough so that it looks like you're doing something illegal so we can get you beaten. Now the reality is if you've ever read the book of Acts Paul is not a stranger to persecution. Paul is not a stranger. I mean just think about the things the Apostle Paul has been through. He's been beaten, he's been jailed, he's been left for dead, he's been shipwrecked, he's been bitten by poisonous snakes. I mean the man has to have some seriously high workers comp because what he gets into really heavy but here this initial being beaten and thrown in prison Julie it really is for a revenge scenario but it is revenge because they're there doing the gospel. Either way you look at it still persecution. Here's your third blank this morning. Passion about holiness often face persecution. He regularly experienced God's power. Paul regularly experienced God's power. And here's where the story is about the takeoff. He regularly experienced God's power. Jump back into the story verse 23. So they're beaten and now they were severely beaten and then they were thrown into prison. Great way to start a missions trip. Severely beaten by rods and thrown in prison. The jailer was ordered to make sure they didn't escape so the jailer put them in the inner dungeon and clamp their feet in stocks. Stop. You have to understand what happens to the jailer if Paul and Silas get free. The jailer gets killed. Like the the Romans had an incredibly brutal culture and Amanda you've just now been like demoted. You were a Roman now you're the jailer. If you were the jailer and it was your job to put me and Jonathan in prison and somehow Jonathan and I Houdini our way out of our cell you lose your life. You don't just take my place in cell you die. That's how severe the punishment was for not doing your job correctly. So when this jailer is told Melissa make sure these jokers don't get free he puts them all the way in the dungeon and clamps their feet in the stocks. So what do Paul and Silas do? They start praying and singing praise and worship songs. Is that what you would do if you went on a missions trip and on day one you got beaten and thrown in prison? Nelson first thing that comes to mind you know what we need some worship up in this place. No I don't think so. Being perfectly honest I don't think so. Sean if you and I are ever on foreign soil and day one we get thrown in prison I don't think praise and worship would be my my first choice. But Paul understands there's a much longer game at play here. Now whether he understands it carnally or whether he's motivated by the Holy Spirit I don't want to make that determination. But I think Paul's actions here they're thrown in dungeon they're locked in stocks and they're singing and or they're praying and singing hymns to God loud enough that everybody else can hear. This is not just I'm in my jail so dear God holy God I know that you know this is not some mumbly kind of under your breath. No no this is loud enough that the whole cell block E can hear me singing Amazing Grace. So this is not something they were hiding. Allie they were not afraid to pray and sing praises to God. Now keep in mind that's exactly what got them in this position in the first place. They showed up into town to do ministry. Part of doing ministry is praying. Part of doing ministry is teaching other people how to praise God. The very thing they are doing in jail is what got them in jail and yet it didn't deter them one bit. Melissa take me forward one slide. Suddenly there was a massive earthquake and the prison was shaken to its foundations. All the doors immediately flew open and the chains fell off every prisoner. The chains off every prisoner fell off. Sorry I studied this in a few different translations. This is the like aha uber cool Holy Spirit moment of the story. Paul and Silas are beaten. They're thrown in jail. They are physically locked into their cell. Chains stocks around their feet so they can't escape and they decide to have a praise and worship session and in the middle of the night the Lord's power shows up shakes the foundation of the prison. All the doors fling open and even the chains of their feet are loosed. This is the point in the sermon where you interject the idea that worship brings freedom and I don't mean that in the in the sort of subjective context. No if you are ever having a really bad day just take a five take a pause take a beat and just stop and pray about it for a minute. I know that sounds like the most like super religious thing to say but just follow the train of thought. Dan if we believe in a God who answers prayer why don't we pray more often. If we believe in a God who can get us through trial why don't we stop and recognize him when we're in the trial. Now am I saying that you're gonna pull over you're gonna get flat tire you're gonna sing one verse of Amazing Grace and the tires gonna auto inflate. No but if that happens call me because I want a selfie with the tire because that would be awesome. But what I am saying is there is a very real reality for people who live a life of faith that including God in all of what you do not just the Sunday morning part is the life we're called to live. Paul and Silas are in the middle of prison they're jailed in and they're still praising God. Why because they know they have a mission to do. They know they've got a job to do and guess what John if they're lost people in prison and they're lost people on the street then my job really hasn't changed much it's just geography. I'll preach to the guy in the cell next to me rather than the block next to me. Paul realizes his job can still be done and in the midst of this BAM supernatural miracle all of a sudden the chains fall off the doors open you know light shines from heaven this is this is the Holy Spirit moment of the story. Now let me give you your next blank because I want to follow this right up with what happened. He regularly shared the gospel. He regularly shared the gospel. We'll jump right back in the story again pick it up at verse 27. It's chapter 16 verse 27. The jailer woke up to see the prison doors wide open he assumed the prisoners had escaped so he drew his sword to kill himself. Stop. Now does that make more sense? If I know I am going to face a Roman execution I'll just go ahead and pop it off real quick because at least I know at least I know if if I slit my own throat it's gonna be a whole lot more painless than if I let my boss do it. If I let my boss pull out the cat-o-nine tails, crucifixion, the Romans made an art out of extracting every last ounce of pain and agony from the people that they tortured. They invented crucifixion. Crucifixion one of the most difficult painful ways to die. Terry if I have the choice between taking my own life in the prison at least my boss will know I knew what the penalty was and I'll just go ahead and real quick because I don't want to be killed by my my sub or my superiors. I do not want that to happen. So the jailer wakes up he sees all the prison doors open figures wow everybody must have escaped and then Paul shouts to him stop stop and then the funniest thing to ever come out of a prison. We're all here. We are all here. Not just me and Silas. Me and all of cell block E are still here even though the doors are open even though the chains are off not a single prisoner left. Don't you strike then that strike you as odd just put yourself in that scenario for a minute. Jonathan you and me we're in a dungeon. I don't know we got into but it was something for real. We're in the dungeon all of a sudden God's power shows up all the doors swing open. Now I don't know what everyone else has done to get down here. You and I were trying to spread the gospel. Somebody else might be a rapist. Somebody else might be a murderer. Someone else might have been plotting the death of some Roman official but not a single prisoner took the opportunity to leave. That's either one of two things either a they're all still asleep. I did I did hear someone try to explain it this way. Well the Bible says it's the middle of the night so probably most of the prisoners were still asleep and that's why they chose not to run away. Okay the prison shook hard enough to open the doors hard enough for the chains to fall off. I don't know about you I can sleep like a freight train but when my bed starts shaking I think I'd wake up. So whilst I can accept okay that's a somewhat it is in line with scripture I think the problem with that is that the foundations shook the doors flung open chains fell off. It's moving it's loud. Why does no one leave? In my opinion because the Holy Spirit had a plan and the plan was for the jailer and in order for the jailer to live long enough to hear the message everyone else had to stay put or the story ends right here. If Paul doesn't go stop we're all here the next thing you hear is and then pretty much the story's over. There is no more jailer there is no more finding Jesus there is no more his household gets saved. Everything that Luke's about to tell us does not happen if Paul does not stop the jailer here. We're all here okay. So the jailer called for lights why because it's a dungeon they haven't invented electricity yet it's dark he calls for torches and they ran to the dungeon and he fell down trembling before Paul and Silas stop again. How did the jailer know to go to Paul's cell? We just said everybody's here right? All a cell block E still in their cells even if it was only one other person in the dungeon even it was just you and me and Terry's next to us because that makes sense. So even if it was Jonathan's just you and me and Terry's in the next cell the jailer has a 50% chance of being right. How does the jailer know to go to the right cell? Again God had a plan and somehow Miss Judy in the midst of this miracle in the midst of the prison being shaken in the midst of the chains falling off something speaks to the heart of this Roman pagan jailer and he has some idea that Paul and Silas are responsible for this miracle that has just taken place and in my opinion if I'm the jailer the miracle is not that the door swung open the miracles that nobody bounced the miracle is I get to live to see my wife when I go home that's the miracle so he runs before Paul and Silas and asked one simple question, sirs what must I do to be saved? Now go back to the beginning of the story don't don't take me slide there just just remember what did the slave girl say about Paul and Silas? These men represent the most holy God they are telling you the way to be saved. Interesting that whether the jailer knew about the slave girl or not is really not the point the author who wrote the text for us knew about both whether the jailer had heard the slave girl herself himself while walking to work you don't need to know that what you need to know is the author knew both instances and interesting that the phrasing is exactly the same what must I do to be saved in the midst of our time in in the hole in cell block E ministry still happens the jailer comes to Paul and Silas what must I do to be saved? Here's your last blank let's round up the story he was ready to do ministry Paul was ready to do ministry so let's fill out the end here pick it back up in verse 31 so verse 31 the shakes the doors the chains the jailer comes down falls on the floor in front of Paul and Silas what must I do to be saved? They replied believe in the Lord Jesus and you'll be saved along with everyone in your household stop there's a small bit of incorrect theology that can be read if you only read this one verse that's why I try to say time and time again never ever ever just read one verse and then try to interpret its meaning because the verses before and after it are gonna give you all the context in the world no everyone in the jailers household did not get saved the moment the jailer got saved the jailer became the doorway to bringing the gospel to his home so if anybody tries to read this verse and tell you oh no no I'm saved because my granddaddy accepted Jesus when I was a baby not exactly how that plays out it's exactly that funny not exactly how that works and that's not what this verse teaches believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved along with everyone in your household and they shared the word of the Lord look with him and with all who lived in his household Paul knew the mission Sean the mission is not just to change one person's life and then bounce out to Ephesus the mission was to change enough people's lives to start a functioning church everywhere he went look at the rest of the book of Acts he does that he travels to Ephesus he plants a church he writes him a letter he travels to Philippi he plants a church he writes him a letter he travels to Corinth those people had issues he writes him two letters and so on and so forth we talked about Corinthians a couple weeks ago those jokers had some mad crazy issues but this is Paul's mission Ali he's traveling around intentionally to spread the word of God and that doesn't happen if I show up and I preach a good sermon and three people get saved and then I bounce out with ever leaving anyone to help disciple these people here Paul's mission from day one is to plant a church in this town so he goes to the jailers household and even at that hour of night the jailer cared for them and washed their wounds here's where we see the transformation of the jailers character when we first meet the jailer Nelson he's just a Roman on the job he's a Roman on the job he's throwing people in prison he's chaining them up but at the moment when God's power shows up something inside of him is drawn to Paul and Silas to hear the word of God he immediately gets saved he gets transformed and the last text here shows it even at that hour the jailer cared for them why does the jailer care for those he has jailed because Paul and Silas gave the jailer something that was so valuable that was so meaningful that changed his life so radically that his character towards them changed get me one forward Melissa let's keep let's keep this story rolling then he and everyone in his household was immediately baptized in the New Testament the standard pattern was the moment you accepted Jesus you got wet so accept Jesus in something you're comfortable being thrown in water in because there was no you know there was no time period like okay we're gonna schedule you for our next baptism it's gonna be in six weeks and bring a towel and make sure you bring your bathing suit we're gonna grill out like yes that's the way we do it and it's an awful lot of fun but in the New Testament it was very acceptable Dan if you get saved today there's a river out back we're gonna dunk you and keep you the alligators away from you and that's what happened so immediately the jailer in his entire household gets saved he brought them into his house look at this he set a meal before them six eight hours ago he was locking these people up in a dungeon and chaining their feet to a wall and now the power of God has so radically transformed this unnamed Roman jailer that he brings them to his own home he lets them talk to his wife and children and then he serves them a meal and he and his entire household rejoiced why because they all believed in God Jonathan that was the mission they all believed in God the next morning the city officials sent the police to tell the jailer let those men go so the jailer told Paul the city officials have said you and Silas are free to leave go in peace do you believe that God had a plan in this interaction with Paul in the jailer I do I think the text is so super obvious he used the greed no rewind even further he God is so powerful just he used the demonic girl to irritate Paul enough so Paul would cast out the demonic girl then the greed of the slave owners would drag them before the magistrates then the magistrates would throw them in jail all because the jailer in his household needed to get saved and look at how many dominoes it took and yes Paul and Silas had to get beaten with rods and yes they were thrown in prison overnight but when the Sun rises the next morning they are eating food in the jailer's house with his wife and kids if that is not the epitome of radical transformation I don't know what is the jailer is the one who was radically transformed in the story you see that by the few interactions he has with Paul and Silas as we walked it through but the real question is do you believe that God had a plan when he sent Paul into this town and that plan is what played out here in these 20 verses or do you just believe that everything happened by accident it was by accident that Paul got thrown in jail it was by accident they're praying and worshipping late at night it was by accident that the the doors flung open and the chains fell off it was by accident that the jailer knew to go to Paul and Silas's cell it was by accident that Paul remembered to share the Word of God with him and not just on his way out of the jail all of those could be by accident but it sounds pretty preposterous right sounds way more reasonable that God had a plan and that plan involved Paul and Silas going through everything we saw them go through in the last 20 verses and the purpose of that plan miss Judy was for the salvation of this jailer in his home and then through his home he begins to start so here's here's how I want to wrap this up this morning we started last week talking about Paul as a radical and last week as Saul of Tarsus Paul was off the charts radical do you find his actions here to be radical or normative it's Paul not the jailer but Paul he walks into a town and all of a sudden bad things start happening Jonathan this is you and me after the beating in the after the beating in the jailing I think I'd be like okay and we're out as soon as those doors open I'm like and whoop I got pot pie at home let's go but Paul understood something that I think is very probative for us to understand today miss Julie sometimes bad things happen in our life not because God is punishing us but because God has a plan that involves our faith in the midst of that trial that's living radically to understand that while you're in the midst of that trial while you're in the midst of that flat tire while you're in the midst of that argument with your mother father grandmother or or guinea pig while you're in the midst of trial at work while you're in the midst of difficulty with customers while you're in the midst of whatever do you believe that God has a plan for your life or do you just think it's all by accident because if it's all by accident Ali that sucks like let's just call a spade a spade if this whole story was an accident that sucks first day of a missions trip we get beaten and thrown in jail all by accident or maybe sometimes God allows us to experience trial because he's counting on us to do the job that was left for us and the trial puts us in proximity to those who need to hear about Jesus that is the radical perspective I think that Paul lives out that Nelson we should live out today Nelson can I pick on you for a quick second Nelson excellent looking Cuban individual in the back row also happens to be the coolest barber in Cape Coral how many people you see a week bro in your chair a lot let's say you do 12 cuts a day right you work five days a week that's easily 60 people how many of those 60 talk to you about their life while they're in the chair all of them you have access to 60 people's life stories do you not think that's an awesome platform for the gospel do you not think that just being in that one place now granted I only spend like what 30 minutes in your chair less if I actually get a haircut more than once every five months sometimes God puts us in a place not because it's a blessing or a punishment for us but because he has a much bigger plan that involves us being a part of it now the next time you go through a trial or a difficulty or irritation I mean the whole story started with Paul being frustrated Paul being irritated I will willingly admit I get irritated on a weekly sometimes bi-weekly or even daily basis I'm sure I'm the only one the rest of you are all perfect I dig that this is the most perfect church on the planet all of you are perfect and you never have any frustration in your life but what if that frustration is driving you to a point of ministry I think the way I said it in one of your five-minute moments this week is life is the laboratory in which ministry happens sometimes you have to have a perspective bigger than your own Dan the next time something goes wrong Lord is this the opportunity for you to use me in a way that I wouldn't have been able to if it hadn't have gone wrong the reason I consider Paul a radical is because he lived a simple basic principle that I find incredibly difficult to live every day no matter what happens God be praised and the message be preached that's super hard that's super hard because I'll be honest there's days that I'm so frustrated Jesus is not my first thought there are days that I'm so irritated prayer and praise and worship are not my first solution and I'm sure I'm sitting up here as the pastor Wow you suck I'm just being honest I live a human life I have a frail human consciousness I'm a husband I'm a dad you know there are times where life is frustrating in that frustration is that the opportunity for ministry or do we just sit back and go oh God where he punished me hopefully you'll accept the challenge to live life the way Paul lived it which is get out for lack of a better term life is bigger than you look at life from God's perspective and see what is happening around you that might possibly be of a divine nature not just your own personal nature