Alright, now this morning we are going to continue our series entitled, Jesus is Greater Than Religion. Jesus is Greater Than Religion. And I want to start out this morning, Miss Anne, I want to tell you a short story. There's a newlywed couple, fresh home from their honeymoon. They get their bags in, they get in the front door, they come home, and now here's the big choice. What are we going to make for dinner? This is our first meal as a married couple back in our home. What are we going to make for dinner? So the wife turns to her new husband and she says, honey, I know exactly what I want to make. I'm going to make something that my mom used to make for my dad all the time. I'm going to make my mom's meatloaf. And the husband goes, ooh, I've had your mom's meatloaf. That's really good. So they go to the store and they go get all the ingredients they need to make this famous mom's meatloaf. They get home, they get into the kitchen together, they're cracking it up, they're chopping it up. They get the standard loaf shape of the meatloaf made. And right before the new wife is about to put the meatloaf in the oven, she grabs a knife and she cuts the edges, the sort of what I call the stumps on either side of the meatloaf. She cuts the stumps off and then she puts it in the baking pan and she puts it in the oven. Well the new husband looks at his bride and goes, honey, why did you do that? And she said, this is how you make meatloaf. Don't you do it this way? And the husband goes, no, I've never seen anyone do it that way. Why do you do it that way? And the wife goes, well, I don't know. That's the way my mom always did it. Well, let's call up your mom. So the newlywed couple, they get on the phone and they call mom. They call mom and say, hey, mom, oh, hey, how was the honeymoon? It was great. We're going to send you pictures. Look on Facebook. But mom, I got a question. We're having dinner and I'm trying to make your famous meatloaf. And she goes, oh, honey, you've made that a million times. Of course you know how to make it. Yeah, but mom, I got a question. Why are we trimming the ends off the meatloaf? And she goes, well, honey, that's the way we make meatloaf in our family. She goes, no, no, no, I know that. But why are we doing that? And then the mother of the bride, she says, well, honey, I really don't know. That's the way grandma made it. OK, so let's call grandma. So now these people, they get on the phone and they call grandma. And so we get on the phone and we call grandma. Hi, grandma. Oh, hello, dear, how was the honeymoon? It's my best grandma voice. You've got to forgive me. Hello, dear. Hi, grandma. The honeymoon was great. We're going to print out some pictures. I don't expect you to be on Facebook. But grandma, we got a question. Oh, go ahead. How can I help? Well, mom, I'm making, don't make me laugh. Stop. It's a good story. Don't make me laugh. I'm making your meatloaf. Oh, I love meatloaf. I'm making your meatloaf. And we all have a question. Go ahead, dear. Why do we cut the ends off the meatloaf? What do you mean? Well, when you make the meatloaf, why did you cut the ends off of it? That's the way you taught mom how to do it. That's the way mom taught me how to do it. Why did you do it that way? She said, oh, it's really simple, dear. If I didn't cut the ends off, it wouldn't fit in my baking pan. So for three generations, this family did it the way they always did it. And there was a reason. But by the time the newlywed couple made it home, they had forgotten the reason. So with that in mind, I want to play a little game this morning. I want to play a little game with you. And it's called sacred or secular. I'm going to give you three things that we do today in our church, as well as churches all over our country and actually all over the world. And I want you to answer one simple question. I want you to tell me if what I show you on the screen is sacred. And by sacred, I mean, is it biblical? Is the reason we do it from the Bible? Or is it secular? Meaning is the reason that we do this item you're about to see from some other reason than the Bible, whether it be history or pagan culture or anything else? So does everyone understand the rules? OK, hit me with the first topic. Christian church buildings. Are Christian church buildings sacred or secular? OK, OK. Show of hands for sacred. Show of hands for sacred. One, two, no, it's OK. OK, show of hands for secular. Christian church buildings. All right, may I see the answer, please? OK, OK. Secular. All right. Believe it or not, Christian church buildings are secular. They are not sacred. Now, you're going to tell me, wait a minute, Bill, the Israelites had the temple, right? The Jewish temple existed in the Old Testament and the New Testament. It absolutely did. But what happened when Jesus came? Who is the temple today? The body of Christ. We are the, the scripture says we are the new temple. So where did the idea of Christian buildings come from? Here's your answer. In 324 AD, the new emperor Constantine becomes emperor of Rome and legitimizes Christianity. You have to understand from the time of the New Testament till the time of 324 AD, when Constantine becomes the emperor of Rome, our faith was illegal. We were persecuted and hunted for what we believed. But emperor becomes the new, Constantine becomes the new emperor of Rome. He legitimizes and legalizes Christianity. And shortly after that, he began building Christian churches. The first major builder of Christian churches is a pagan emperor. Now we could debate whether Constantine was actually Christian later, but Constantine begins building Christian churches to legitimize Christianity within the populace of the Roman Empire. And he copied for the building of it. He copied Jewish and pagan houses of worship. Until that point, Christians worshiped and taught in their homes, in their living rooms, in their backyards, with their barbecue and their potato salad. Maybe not. Okay? So that was our first one. Ma'am, may I have our second topic please? The Sunday Sermon. Now I'm going to step on everybody's thinking toes. The Sunday Sermon is the absolute golden child of the Protestant Reformation. Is the Sunday Sermon sacred or secular? Show of hands for sacred. The Sunday Sermon. Sacred. Okay? Show of hands for secular. Okay. Answer please. It is secular. Now, wait, you're going to tell me, wait a minute. But Paul preached in the New Testament. There was preaching. There was preaching in Acts chapter 2 when the Holy Spirit fell. Absolutely there was. There's one major difference between the way we preach the Word of God today and the way they preach the Word of God in the New Testament. In the New Testament, the Word of God was preached pretty much daily. Whenever anyone met in homes, they taught the Word of God. The way I worded that was somewhat of a trick question. The Sunday morning sermon. Why do we have a sermon once a week? Well, here's your answer. In the 5th century BC, that means four centuries before Jesus walked the earth. In the 5th century BC, there was a group of professional orators known as the sophists. They were expert communicators and masters of both emotional and logical appeals. Some of them spoke regularly in the same location on a regular basis, while others traveled around and spoke. When the Romans took over from the Greeks, they furthered the concept of the professional orator. So much so that the professional speakers were the rock stars of their day. By the 3rd century, this had solidified into the Christian church and specifically trained orators taught the Word of God. Do you know who taught the Bible until the 3rd century? You. Everyone who went to church taught the Bible. It wasn't until 300 years later that the professional orator, the professional speaker came to be. And Jonathan, here's a little pop quiz knowledge for you. Something that'll kind of, even when I have to say this out loud, it makes my skin crawl just a little bit. These sophists, these professional orators, do you know what they're, you would hire them to give a speech. Do you know what their speech is called? A homily. Most of you know I'm about to start seminary in about a month. Do you know what the class is called when it's taught preaching in seminary? Homiletics. Even that word still exists today in our modern day seminary teachings. Homiletics is the art of speaking professionally. We just apply it to the Bible. Alright, third one please. Third category. Putting on your Sunday best, which I realize doesn't apply to a lot of us, okay, but just go with me for a second. Putting on your Sunday best, and by that I mean getting dressed up to go to church. Getting dressed up more than your usual dress up. Like, I would be honest. I, Kathy can I pick on you for a minute? I have run into Kathy on a Tuesday and she's still looking pretty fly, okay. So Kathy dresses well a lot. But what I mean by Sunday best is higher than your normal standard of weekly dress. Is the concept of getting dressed up more than your normal weekly dress to go to church a sacred idea or is it a secular idea? How many hands for sacred idea? I love my church. This is awesome. How many for secular? Everybody. Alright, please show me the answer. Nope, it is secular. It is absolutely secular. Listen to this. Dressing up for church is fairly a new phenomenon. Starting in the late 18th century around the time of the Industrial Revolution, the middle class began to make more money and distinguish itself from the lower class. Until that time, dressing up to go out was only for aristocrats and the severely wealthy. As more people began to make more money, they began to dress nicer and nicer and make the Sunday best culture that we have today. Interesting point of fact, before the 18th century when this phenomenon started to occur, there were denominations, the origins of the United Methodist Church. They actually turned people away at the door if they were too dressed up. The original Baptist Church that came out of the Anabaptist Movement, they came out and said openly, do not dress up to come to church because it gives a visual distinction between those who have wealth and those who do not. And Jesus taught against that. Unfortunately, the sway of culture could not be held back and that is why we have the Sunday best culture that we have today. Okay, if you've ever seen me on a Tuesday, this is better than my Tuesday. Right, right? My Tuesday is a ball cap with nothing in my hair and sleeveless shirt and shorts if you're lucky because I don't have to go out of the house. So pajama pants are an all-day affair for me. But let me ask a really important question. We talked about three things. We talked about Sunday best, church buildings and the Sunday sermon. Are any of these things bad? No. I think all of them in their own right can be good. Now let me ask another question. Can they be twisted to be bad? Absolutely. A church building can become an idol and then it's too bad. The Sunday sermon can absolutely become an idol and the pastor can be too revered for his speaking ability and you put him up on a pedestal and that becomes bad. Putting on your Sunday best and having to compare who has the better clothes or what like the first time I hear somebody walking in the church going, who are you wearing today? You're fired. Okay, hospitality team, the first time you say that you're fired unless you say that on purpose next week to get fired and then we'll have another conversation. But none of these things in and of themselves are bad. But tradition can become bad. So take a look at the back of your bulletin this morning. That is exactly what we're going to talk about this morning. I want to talk about why Jesus is greater than tradition because tradition by itself isn't necessarily bad but it could be if it's misused, if it's misapplied, if it's misunderstood. All of a sudden something that started out as a completely genuine act can become harmful to your faith. So in your Bibles this morning whether they're physical or digital, please turn or click with me to the Gospel of Matthew. That one should be super easy to find. It's the first one in the New Testament, Matthew. No one had a water. Matthew, we're going to look at chapter 15. Matthew chapter 15 and we're going to start reading in verse 1. Matthew 15 verse 1 and I'll have it for you here on the screen in the New Living translation. Raise your hand if you're not there. Awesome, here we go. Matthew chapter 15 beginning in verse 1 in the New Living says this, Some Pharisees and teachers of religious law now arrived from Jerusalem to see Jesus. They asked him, why do your disciples disobey our age-old tradition? For they ignore our tradition of ceremonial hand washing before they eat. Jesus replied, and why do you by your traditions violate the direct commandments of God? For instance, God says honor your father and mother and anyone who speaks disrespectfully of father or mother must be put to death. But you say it's all right for people to say to their parents, Sorry, I can't help you for I vowed to give to God what I would have given to you. In this way, you say they don't need to honor their parents. And so you cancel the word of God for the sake of your own tradition. You hypocrites! Isaiah was right when he prophesied about you. For he wrote, these people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. Their worship is a farce, for they teach man-made ideas as commandments. Then Jesus called to the crowd to come in here. Listen, he said, and try to understand. It's not what goes into your mouth that defiles you. You are defiled by the words that come out of your mouth. Then the disciples came and asked, do you realize you offended the Pharisees by what you just said? Jesus replied, every plant not planted by my heavenly father will be uprooted. So ignore them. Every plant not planted by my heavenly father will be uprooted. So ignore them. They're blind guides. Go back. They are blind guides leading the blind. And if one blind person guides another, they'll both fall into a ditch. Then Peter said to Jesus, explain to us the parable that says people aren't defiled by what they eat. Don't you understand yet? Jesus asked. Anything that you eat passes through the stomach and then goes into the sewer. But the words you speak come from the heart. That's what defiles you. From the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, all sexual immorality, theft, lying, and slander. These are what defile you. Eating with unwashed hands will never defile you. Now, what I hope that we will see this morning is sometimes tradition can go too far. Let me give you your first blank. And then we're going to get back into this passage and break it down. Your first blank is tradition became a part of righteousness. Tradition became a part of righteousness. Now, let's go back into verse one and two and take a look at what we got here. So this is Matthew 15 verses one and two. Some Pharisees and teachers of the religious law now arrived from Jerusalem to see Jesus. Stop. This first sentence sets the setting for everything that's going to follow. Some Pharisees and teachers of the religious law now arrived from Jerusalem. The context that I want you to see here is they are intentionally and specifically approaching the Savior to question him. This is not a happen chance. Oh, oh, by the way, while you're here, let me hit you up with this question real quick. No. This was intentional. They left Jerusalem. Now, what is Jerusalem? Jerusalem is the capital of the Jewish nation. Jerusalem is where the temple is. They sent directly from the high priest from the temple in Jerusalem to seek out Jesus to ask him this question. This is an intentional engagement. They asked him, Why do your disciples disobey our age-old tradition? For they ignore our tradition of ceremonial hand washing before they eat. Now, I know we've talked about this several times in this series, but I do understand the Pharisees are zealous. They are passionate about following the letter of the law of God. So much so that they invented their own law to sort of, I read this week one person describes it as the fence around the law. The Pharisees invented their own law to protect the law of God. If I don't violate my own fence laws, then I'm for sure never going to violate God's laws. Because I built my fence law around God's law to improve it or to enhance it. So if I obey my fence, I will never violate the word of God or the law of God. But there's another thing here that we got to talk about so that we can fully understand what's going on. And that's this idea of ceremonial hand washing. If you go into the Old Testament, what you would discover is they have a lot of laws about cleanliness. Some of them about eating, some of them about drinking, some of them about what they can touch. And there is a concept in the Old Testament that still has some vestiges in a modern worship today called ceremonial or ritual cleanliness. Now this does not refer to physical dirt on your body. It more refers to sinful influence on your soul. A good way to think about it would be clean enough to worship God. What is ceremonial cleanliness? I'm clean enough to worship God. That's what all the laws in the Old Testament about ceremonial cleanliness. If you were ceremonially or ritually unclean, you were not allowed to emplod the temple. Which means what? You are not allowed to worship God. So this concept of ceremonial cleanliness has to do with being clean enough to worship God. Now let's step into the text again. Why do they disobey our age old tradition? For they ignore our tradition of ceremonial hand washing before they eat. See the Jews believe that if you were to eat something that was unclean, that by consuming it, Nelson you've made your entire body ceremonially unclean. Now you are no longer clean enough to enter the temple and worship God. So what they would do in order to ensure that everything they ate, because obviously a Pharisee is not going to eat something unclean, but see they flipped it and they said, well if my hands are ceremonially unclean and I pick up a piece of food, even if that food is ceremonially clean, I have made it unclean by picking it up, so now I am guilty of my own ceremonial uncleanliness. So you see that. They took the law of God and they twisted it to make it into something about them. So then they create this ceremonial hand washing. And it wasn't like they actually got in there and scrubbed with some Dawn and got the nail brush. I mean it wasn't really the concept of cleaning. It was an act. It was a meaningless act that they then tried to inject spiritual meaning into. And so they would do this ritual hand washing so that they could prove to themselves and everyone around them that look, look, my hands are ceremonially clean, I'm good to worship God, hamei desu shiro. And now I'm not going to make that object that I'm eating unclean by touching it. And obviously by the connotation you get the fact Jesus did not require his disciples to do this. That's the whole point of this engagement. Why do your disciples disobey our age old tradition? For they ignore our tradition of ceremonial hand washing before they eat. Jesus did not require his disciples to do this meaningless act because Jesus knew exactly what it was. It was a meaningless act that they tried to inject meaning into. Here's your second blank. Tradition became too important. Tradition became too important. Now let's pick it right back up in verse 3 and let's keep reading. So they ask Jesus, why do your disciples not do this? Jesus replies, and why do you by your traditions violate the direct commandments of God? Stop. Remember Jesus' audience. Who is Jesus speaking to? He's speaking to Pharisees. He's speaking to the religious elite of his day. For him to level an accusation that they are directly violating the word of God it got their attention and it aggravated them very severely. They got super upset at this. And this is how he comes out of the box swinging. Because they pride themselves on their own self-righteousness. And here Jesus is about to point out why they're so self-righteous that they're not even righteous. Why do you violate the direct commandments of God? For instance, God says honor your father and mother. Where's that at? Anybody recognize that? Ten commandments. Go all the way back to Moses and the stone tablets. God was saying honor your father and mother. And anyone who speaks disrespectfully of father or mother must be put to death. But you say it's alright for people to say to their parents Sorry I can't help you for I have vowed to give to God what I have given to you. Stop. Let me explain this. The Jews have a tradition called Corban. And it can either be spelled C-O-R-B-A-N or K-O-R-B-A-N. Depending on which commentary you want to read and how they're bringing it into the English language. But there's a terminology or tradition called Corban. And the word Corban literally means treasury or in context temple treasury. So what Corban means is let's just say that I am a home builder. And I'm building all these different homes. And through my career I've built several developments. One was on a golf course, one was on the beach. I'm doing pretty well for myself. And my checking account has begun to amass. And I've got savings and I've got investments. And according to the American business mindset I'm pretty flush. I'm doing pretty good. But I'm going to go to this particular savings account over here. And I'm going to declare it to be Corban. And what that means is while I am still alive that money is sitting in my savings account. But I have declared it as dedicated to the temple. So that money can be used for no other purpose other than temple treasury. So it's sort of like, am I going to call it earmarking? Earmarking. Earmarking. So I'm going to declare it Corban. And I'm going to declare it Corban. And I'm going to declare it Corban. And I'm going to declare it Corban. Earmarking. That's what we call it today. You're earmarking money for a purpose while it is still in your own possession. You're earmarking money for a purpose while it is still in your own possession. That is the right term right? Earmarking. Earmarking your money for a specific purpose, while it is still your money, you have already declared it to be for a certain purpose. Now. That's the tradition of Corban or the temple treasury. But why does the tradition of Corban, which let's be honest, dedicating money to God, not a bad concept. not a bad concept. Giving of one's blessing that God has given you to give back to him, not a bad concept. But Miss Lena, they take it too far. They take it so far as, look at what happens here. But you say, it is in the middle, but you say it is alright for people to say to their parents, sorry I can't help you, for I have vowed to give to God what I have given to you. Meaning, those of you who are starting to experience that your parents are older in age and now need some assistance in being able to be taken care of. My parents aren't quite there yet, but they're at least starting to plan for it. You know, they're starting to plan for when I'm not able to take care of myself anymore. Guess what? I'm the only son. I'm not only the only son of my biological parents, I'm the only son of my adopted parents, my aunt and uncle. So my father and my aunt and uncle will become my responsibility to care for in their older age. And that hasn't changed. It's even more so in a Jewish culture. So it's like I took this money that was earmarked to take care of my parents when they were in their older age and I said, no I'm not going to have my responsibility to you. I'm going to forgive that. I'm not going to take care of you because I'm going to give this money to the Temple Treasury. That's what the tradition of Corbin had become. It had become almost a comparison of who's the better sacrificer, who's going to give more money, and so much so they'd give so much money away that they began to ignore the very real responsibility of adult children to care for their older parents as they get up in age. Now my grandparents, I think my grandmother turns 89 this year. I may be wrong but I think she turns 89. My grandmother grandfather is still living on her own, still kicking it. Now my grandmother does not drive. I don't know the last time I saw my grandmother behind the wheel of a car. It might have been when I was in grade school because my grandfather takes care of her. He takes her everywhere but they're both about to be 90. My grandfather obviously he can no longer drive at night. He hasn't been able to for like a decade but that doesn't stop them from going out during the day and picking up their medications and going to the store. They're still very agile. My grandmama still smack you if you say something wrong like we got no problems but they're reaching the point where my aunts and uncles and you know that generation of my family that's just above me have begun making plans for if my grandfather's knee gives out. My grandfather actually some of you maybe not remember this. I only remember because I was told that my grandfather used to drive a milk truck and he used to actually deliver milk and he told me all the time as a kid that he would make so many frequent stops that he would just have one leg almost hanging out of the truck all the time and it would bang against the outside of the truck and so his knee is like severely messed up. He walks with a cane most times. He's got quarter zone shots in his knee. There's gonna come a point when my parents will have to take care of my grandparents. There's gonna come a point well I will have to care for my parents. What was happening here with this tradition of Corbin was they were going you know what mom dad I love you your time is past you can like go beg at the temple or something. God is great I'm gonna give all my money to him and do you see how fast a tradition that was meant to be godly to offer offerings to God to earmark money when I pass I'm gonna give this to God that's a great idea but not when it causes you to break a commandment like honor your mother and father and take care of them. Let's look at your third blank this morning. Tradition led to hypocrisy in the temple. Tradition led to hypocrisy in the temple. Tradition led to hypocrisy in the temple. Let's pick it back up at verse 7. You hypocrites! Jesus doesn't waste any time. He swings for the fences and puts it right on their jaw. You hypocrites! Isaiah was right when he prophesied about you for he wrote these people honor me with their lips but their hearts are far from me. I take this his rebuke in two halves. Number one what is the definition of a hypocrite? A person who says one thing and does another right super obvious of course none of us are hypocrites because we're all here but when you may know someone I mean I'm saying a fictional maybe a hypothetical you know family member or friend somebody in the barber chair I'm saying you maybe have met a hypocrite if you've never met one there's somebody who says one thing and then does another and what Jesus is pointing out here is the Pharisees in their zeal in their passion to outdo one another's self-righteousness they extended a man-made tradition to the point that it violated the very word of God and they were okay with it that's that's the the underlying oh my goodness these guys who claim to be righteous who claim to stand for God who claim to carry his name they were so self-righteously comparing to one another how much they could eat sacrifice they were ignoring their biblical responsibility to care for their elderly parents and Jesus opens it up you're a hypocrite their worship is a farce now we looked at this verse back a few seasons a few seasons a few series ago we talked about worthless worship worship that God will reject this was one of those verses their worship is a farce meaning it is fake it's a play it's an act for they teach man-made ideas as the commands of God and I wish Amanda I wish I could stand here and tell you that this is just in the New Testament it doesn't happen today but I would be lying it happens all the time I have sat in churches and listened to pastors preach things that were so counter biblical that were I mean like I could open the book and go read it try again next week I remember my wife and I were sitting in a church before we moved here it was a very nice church they had multiple services they had a huge auditorium they did gymnasium I mean they had all the trappings that would look like the perfect American church they had a homeless ministry and they had a big kitchen and they had all the stuff that I would love to have like Terry let's be honest do you know what this group of people could do with a gymnasium and a kitchen I mean we could make some huge impact this church had all of that and so my wife and I were sitting here and we weren't working at a church at the given time and we hadn't found a church to commit our skills to voluntarily so we were kind of we were church shopping as people do they go and they go find a church so Maria I'm sitting down with my wife and some of our friends and I'm listening to this guy preach and he's one of those pastors who's like kind of like I don't want to call him a celebrity but if you had a group of random 50 people somebody goes to his church like you ever you know what I'm talking about he's not necessarily on TV all the time although he did he gets interviewed at like Easter and Christmas and he's like you know the big name he's probably the most celebrity pastor of that town you know he's he's known big and he's like the the chaplain for like the local HAL or AHL hockey team and you know he's got all kinds of business things big deal right big deal way bigger deal than me big deal and so we're sitting here in this beautiful ornate auditorium with lights and seating that goes like almost a half moon all the way around the the main presenter and we get he gets halfway into his message and Dan was good like I'm like a lie to you the man can he knew his homiletics he knew how to deliver his text in a very eloquent fashion and we get to the middle of a sermon and he starts getting really you know like excited like it's a Pentecostal church so we're excited and and he's waved his Bible back and forth and I remember the passage he was talking about he was talking about the moment when the woman anoints Jesus's feet with the expensive oil and then she dries his feet with her hair beautiful beautiful story and Abby is clear as day he comes out and he says this was prophetic she did this to prepare Jesus for burial because he was never prepared in the tomb man like everybody like erupted and it was this awesome moment and I sat there and went wait minute wait and this one simple question came to my mind if he wasn't prepared for burial why were there linens left on Easter wait a minute we studied John let me go to the end of John really quick wait a minute two guys in the book of John Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus the Pharisee they picked up Jesus's body from Pilate and prepared it a quarter Jewish burial customs wrapped him and put him in I couldn't pay attention for the rest of the sermon I was out because in a moment of passionate zealous preaching he stepped over the line and he preached something that wasn't biblical but he's so I'll be waxed it he waxed it so good like if I could wax the way that man did it would be amazing but he preached something that was not only not in the Bible it was directly in violation of what the Bible taught it was against the Bible and everyone just erupted with applause and amen and I went we can't come back here and Melanie goes why not that was an awesome point and I went actually that's when I actually had a paper Bible and I went and Melanie read it and she went when you ever see my wife do that she was and I was out I couldn't go back to that church and you know what it's still one of the most affluent churches in that town and I bet you they do a lot of really great ministry but if you let one moment of passion one moment of excitement take you over the line and we cross into the anti-biblical territory we are no better than the Pharisees of Jesus's day we must make sure that our passion always lines up with what the Word of God says it should be the the the red what do you call those metal guards on highways that stop you from driving guardrail thank you I was going metal thing drive like I had all these words going through my head and guardrail was not it but the Word of God should be the thing that guides us as we live our life of faith we cannot just worship God with our lip service and expect it to be genuine look at the way Jesus describes it their worship was a farce it was fake it was pretend it was a show let me step on someone else's toes their worship was a show because it was all lip service and no heart their worship was fake farce could also almost be interpreted as comical their worship was comically fake because they taught man-made ideas as the commands of God let me give you your fourth blank this morning we must test the fruit of tradition we must test the fruit of tradition we must test the fruit of tradition let's jump back into the text at verse 10 Jesus called to the crowd stop now here's the big shift in the story up until this point you got it you got to keep yourself in the mental game here up until this point the conversation has been between the Jews and the Pharisees who were dispatched from Jerusalem to question Jesus and Jesus himself here in verse 10 there's a major shift Jesus turns after he's given a very very stern rebuke to the religious elite he turns to the crowd of people that were watching why what was Jesus doing when they interrupted him he was teaching there was an audience there there was people listening to the Son of God teach about faith and now he handles this question he gives the religious elite their rebuke and now he turns and he goes back to teaching what we would call the common man the everyday man that's us then Jesus called to the crowd to come in here listen he said and try to understand I love that gives me the gives makes me feel good when Jesus says something to me and I don't get it you know when God speaks to you he shows you something in the word of God and all you can go is you know my favorite thing I'm gonna pray about that for a little while because I don't get it you know you ever had that you're in the word of God I have to be all the time when I try to get ready for Tuesdays and Wednesday nights and I have three separate commentaries and two different lexicons and I got an army of things that are supposed to help me understand the text of the Bible and I still read it and I go I'm gonna read it and I'm gonna read it and I'm gonna read it and I'm gonna read it and I'm gonna read it and I'm so it just makes me feel so good to see Jesus say something like this listen understand it's not what goes into your mouth it defiles you now he's going right back remember we talked about that tradition of making sure your hands were clean because if your hands are unclean you pick up clean food then it becomes unclean then you eat it then your whole body's unclean and now you're not good enough to worship God Jesus blows all of that out of the mouth and he's like I'm going to eat it and I'm going to eat it and I'm going to eat it and I'm Jesus blows all of that out of the water he says listen it's not what goes into your mouth that defiles you but the words that come out of your mouth and then the disciples go Jesus do you understand you just pissed off the Pharisees do you understand I love that like you can still see here while Jesus is still walking the earth the disciples still have a very healthy fear of the Pharisees and religious elite of their day whilst we see them in the book of Acts as these bold and powerful ministers and apostles and church planters Jonathan they started out as regular Joes just like you and me and it's nice every now and then to see them not in the apostle Peter mindset but the guy that still denied Jesus three times you know it's nice to see that Jesus's disciples going Jesus you are pissing off the Pharisees and then Jesus and this is Jesus's response every plant not planted by my Heavenly Father will be uprooted so ignore them mmm just let that sink in for a minute every plant not planted by my Heavenly Father what does that mean that means the ministry of the Pharisees never really came from God the ministry of the Pharisees came from man's works from their own fence around the law so ignore them they are blind guides leading the blind if one blind person guides another they will both fall into a ditch now this is a for real right to the Pharisees listen not only are as your minute and you know they're sitting there right there listening to him right there's city they're still standing there after they just asked him how come your disciples don't do this and he goes right now I got my honor your mother and father then he turns and he goes them they're stupid and blind don't don't follow them that's what he's telling this entire crowd that he's teaching don't follow them they're blind and you know what happens if a blind person or if a blind guide leads the blind what is he saying if you follow them you'll end up in the ditch if you being blind are being guided by someone else who's blind because see the crowd that Jesus is teaching would have easily understood the Pharisees must know more about God than me they must there's so much right more righteous than me they're righteous sir there we go there's a great word for your dictionary they're righteous sir than me and so the crowd would assume that whenever guidance came from the Pharisees must have been from God because there's so much more godly than me and that is exactly what Jesus tears down he says no no no any plant not planted by my heavenly father will be uprooted ignore those people ignore them because their ministry is not rooted in God anyway and they're so blind if you continue to follow them you're gonna end up in a ditch here's your last blank we'll wrap it out purity before God comes from within purity before God comes from within purity before God comes from within we'll pick it up at 15 and we'll close the path then Peter then Peter said to Jesus those of you who know me you know Peter is my favorite disciple he is the ADHD st. Bernard disciple of the group Jesus Jesus explain it to me then Jesus said to Peter explain to us the parable it says people aren't defiled by what they eat don't you understand yet I love that don't you understand yet all right Peter here let me explain it to you one more time anything you eat passes through the stomach and then goes into the sewer stop obvious moving on but the words you speak come from the heart that's what defiles you from the heart comes evil thoughts murder adultery all of the sexual immorality theft lying and slander these are what defile you he's standing here right next to a group of people who want to tout their own external righteousness righteousness by external means and Jesus says that's not right they're the blind ones that will be uprooted listen you are defiled from what comes from within not controlling the outside I'll say it the way I like to say it you will never change internal by attempting to control the external that does not work I don't care what church you go to I don't care when you try to read the Word of God you will never change the internal with bigger attempts to control the external however when the Spirit of God changes your internal your external is evidence because it changes when God touches your heart your life changes when you try to give people rules do watch this don't watch that listen to this radio station don't eat that or don't drink that or don't smoke that or don't whatever when all you do is you know you'll never define faith by the things you don't do because people tell me as well how do what's the evidence in your life that you're a Christian well I don't I don't smoke and I don't drink and I don't curse and I don't watch R-rated movies and I don't cheat on my wife and I'm like great I can I can introduce you to an atheist that does all of those things that doesn't mean you're a Christian that just means you don't do that group of things what it means to be a Christian is I love God his word is in my heart his spirit is in my life and his spirit guides my decisions that's what the Pharisees just didn't get they had all this ceremony they all this ritual when the reaction when the reality is heartless actions of obedience mean nothing but the actions of an obedient heart reveal everything we say that again heartless actions of obedience mean nothing but the actions of an obedient heart mean everything in order to be pure before God it doesn't have anything to do with this ritual hand-washing tradition doesn't have anything to do with what you wear to church what kind of building that we meet in how many times a week I preach my sermon whilst our modern-day traditions are not bad Chris they don't save we don't trust in our church attendance to save us from hell we don't trust in what we wear to church to save us from hell I do trust in what I wear to church to save me from applying new deodorant before I go home that's all I trusted in for that's why I wore shorts today in fact my friend Devin who comes over and he helps me critique my sermons he said you seriously wear shorts to church I said this is Florida you don't wear shorts like it's just too hot to wear a suit and a tie and all that kind of stuff and as we see now it's really not even biblical now does that mean it's not based on a biblical idea yes give God your best but how about you start with giving God the best of your heart the best of your life the best of your time the best of your thoughts the best of your motivations and then we'll talk about the best of your wardrobe but you know what you know why because it's super easy to just grab a nice shirt or a nice dress and put it on Nelson I think you'd look great in a dress you know it's super easy to pick the best of your closet okay Melissa here that here's a good one for you right it's super easy to pick the best out of your closet while you hide the worst in your heart what Jesus is saying is let's start on the inside first traditions are not bad we come together every Sunday morning I don't think it's a bad tradition you guys sit here and let me preach to you from the Word of God I don't think that's a bad tradition but let's not get it mistaken don't ever let church tradition replace your internal relationship with God because you will never be made right with God from all these external things we do in church