This morning we are going to continue our series, Habits for Health. And I always think it's important to start off the beginning of the year talking about habits, because it's usually around the first of the year that we create New Year's resolutions. Either because we want to kick bad habits, or because we want to begin new ones. And every week at C3 we have a series, and every series has a key thought. So Melissa, let's look at our key thought this morning. I'm going to go ahead and put that right there. Our key thought for the series is this, my habits determine my health. Now, specifically this is referring to your spiritual health, but Fred, I think we could really apply this to your physical health as well. Some of us may have habits that are determining poor health, or habits that are determining good health. But as in our context this morning, as we are going to discuss it, I'm really talking about your spiritual well-being. Sean, how do the habits of your life affect your spiritual well-being? I defined it last week, I'm going to give it to you again. A habit is defined as an acquired behavior that is regularly followed until it becomes involuntary. A habit is an acquired behavior. Fred, that means a habit doesn't always have to be something that comes naturally. It can be an acquired behavior. An acquired behavior that is done regularly, regularly followed until it becomes involuntary. Lynette, I think of the old story of Pavlov and his dogs. For those of you who don't know who Pavlov was, he was a scientist, and every time that he would, he had his pack of dogs, and every time he'd feed the dogs, he would ring a bell. So he'd ring a bell and give them food. He'd ring a bell and give them food. And you know what happened? He'd ring the bell and the dogs would start salivating. Why? Because in their mind, they linked the idea of the dinner bell with dinner foods. He created a habit. Every time the dogs heard the bell, they thought about food. Well, what I want us to do over the next several weeks is examine and create habits. Now, Melissa, you can leave me here for a minute. I want to give a little bit of a backstory. You'll see on the back of your bulletin, looks a lot like this. Our message this morning is entitled, Habits for Health, Prayer. We want to talk about prayer as a habit. Now, when I was a much younger lad around my seventh and eighth grade years, I had a trouble being good at school. I did not like to do homework. I found that talking to girls was way cooler than doing homework. Okay? I'll just, I'll be honest, Judy. I found school to be much more social than scholastic. Exactly. As Fred said, what's wrong with that? Well, it doesn't do very well for the grade card when you bring it home, the report card. You bring the report card home and all of a sudden, all the classes that had pretty girls in it had C's and D's. And all the classes that didn't have the pretty girls, I had A's and B's. Melissa, you can see there's a direct correlation to my perspective on school. And I remember my uncle, I live with my aunt and uncle at this point, I remember my uncle coming to me and he's saying, Bill, listen, I'm going to give you one more semester to get your studies right, or I'm going to send you somewhere where they will help you do that. And of course, this is the end of my seventh grade year. And sure enough, what happens? End of my seventh grade year, I still found my girlfriend to be more important than my science class. So guess where I went for eighth grade? Military school in the Virginia mountains. 45 minutes, there was, Sean, there was no point in running away from school because it's 45 minutes of pine trees in every direction. The closest city to the military school that I went to was Charlottesville, Virginia. And it was a 45 minute hike through literally woods. My parents drove, this time we lived in North Georgia. So we drove from Georgia to the school. You get checked in, you get dropped off. They issue you your uniform, your footlocker, you go put on your PE uniform. Your parents take your civilian clothes home and get in the car and drive out the gate. And I'm talking big old school iron gates. And you get to do drill for the rest of the day and learn how to write face and about face and march and stop and all that fun jazz. Yes, eighth grade, by the way, eighth grade got dropped off in military school. So, but I found that I had a problem. Now, of course, Lynette, I can admit I have a problem with authority. But as an agent, I'll just be honest, I don't deal with authority really well. And the point of this story, although Julia took one too many rabbit trails, is I have a hard time doing things if I don't understand why. Right? I like to understand the point. When you ask me to do something, why? What's the value? What is the cumulative value of what I am doing? Now, as an adult, I understand way more about why I feel that way. I feel that I should understand the cumulative value of my actions so that I can better myself and better my actions. As an eighth grade young boy, I just had an ego problem and I didn't like people telling me what to do. Why did I say that? Because I think we would all agree this morning, prayer is probably important, right? Doug, I think we could agree. Most of you are nodding your heads. Prayer is important in the life of a Christian. But if I turn around and say, why is prayer important? Now, all of a sudden, we're left with a void. Melissa, we're left sort of scratching our heads. What is the value? What is the purpose of creating a habit of prayer? Let me tell you a short story. There is a village. This is a fictional village, so you'll just have to imagine it with me. There is a village that is halfway down a mountainside. It's a small rural village where people have farm animals and the goats sort of graze on the side of this river stream that runs down. It's very beautiful. And they make milk and they make cheese and they trade with the townspeople below. Well, all the way up at the top of the mountain lives the village elder. And Lynette, every morning, the village elder comes out of his little hut, his little house, and he goes to the rocks, the point of emanation where the stream begins, and he brushes them clean. He brushes them clean. And for this job, he is called the elder and he has provided a living. He's provided food from the towns below, from the village in the middle, and he's provided these things. Year after year, generation after generation, this is how this village works. There's townspeople all the way down at the bottom. There's a village in the middle of the mountainside and the village elder lives at the top. And day after day, Sean, year after year, generation after generation, the village elder comes out every morning and his sole responsibility is to clean those rocks at the very top of the mountainside. Well, a few generations later, the people in the towns, people below, and the village in the middle of the mountain, they don't really remember why they have to give up portions of their food to the elder all the way at the top of the mountain. So Diane, they tell him one day, you're fired. Our commerce down here is doing good. We're starting to trade with neighboring towns. You know, we're becoming somebody. We don't need your elder services anymore. We're good. And the village elder goes, okay, I'll stay up here in case you need me. Well, a short while after that, the village in the middle of the mountain comes down with a sickness. They begin to get sick. So they go down to the townspeople below and they say, wait a minute, can you help us? For some reason, we're getting sick. And the townspeople go, let's trade for some medicine, whatever. In the time it takes them to get the medicine, all of a sudden, the sickness reaches the town at the bottom of the mountain. Now, all of a sudden, the village in the middle of the mountain and the townspeople below are incredibly sick and they have no idea what's going on. So they climb back up the mountain and they ask the village elder, why all of a sudden are we getting sick? And he said, well, Melissa, if you would have asked me, I would have told you, the reason the elder is up here brushing the rocks off is there's a fungus that grows on these rocks. And my job was to protect you from the outcome of that fungus and every day clean these rocks so you would live with a clean water supply. But you didn't ask me why I did my job. You just told me I was fine. So would you like me to do my job again? And of course, the village says, yes, the elder starts blushing the rocks off and everyone gets healthy. What's the point of that story? Sometimes the habits and things we do that seem to be insignificant have a much greater value in your life than you give them credit for. Let me give you your first blank this morning. We've got sort of a single standalone point and then we're gonna unpack a larger portion of scripture. Here's your first point this morning. What is the purpose of prayer? Prayer protects us from temptation. If you ask me, Pastor Bill, please give me one singular purpose of my prayer life. I could probably quote many. There are many benefits to a prayer life. But I'm gonna give you one that's very clear and point out. Prayer protects us from temptation. You have your Bibles with you, they be physical or digital. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 26, verse 41. Matthew 26, 41, and I'll have it for you here on the screen. This is the new international version. Matthew 26, 41 in the NIV, and this is what it says. This is Jesus speaking to his disciples in the garden the night before his capture. Watch and pray so you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. Now if you've grown up in church for any length of time, that latter phrase may be familiar to you. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. What's going on in this story, and Jesus and his disciples are in the garden. They're on the Mount of Olives. They are praying. And Jesus has asked them, will you please pray with me a little while longer? Glena, Jesus knows he's about to be betrayed. He knows the hour has come. All throughout the Gospel of John. Remember we studied that, and he says it's not my time. It's not my time. It's not my time. And all of a sudden my hour has come. Well, the hour has come is time for Jesus to be betrayed and arrested. So he goes to the garden. He asks his disciples, his fellow brothers who've been going with him. He asks them to pray with him, and it's late at night. And of course, everybody goes to the prayer meeting late at night and falls asleep. That's one of the reasons why you don't schedule prayer meetings after 10 p.m. Because people just end up going, Ho-y. And before you know it, people are starting to pass out. Well, that's what's happening with Jesus and his disciples when he says this to them. Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. Now, Maria, there's something really interesting we have to point out here grammatically. I want to read this sentence to you two different ways and show you how you got to make sure you're seeing it correctly. First, it says watch and pray so you will not fall into temptation. Or, Melissa, watch and pray so you will not fall into temptation. Seems like a really small point, right? Really small, insignificant. But the whole point is the first two verses of this, or the first two words, excuse me, verbs of this verse, watch and pray are two different things. Remember, they're up in the middle of the night, right? He's saying watch, be alert, be aware, be understanding, and pray. In your alertness, be praying about what you see. Does that make sense? Watch, be alert, be understanding, pay attention. And in your alertness, in your attention, be in prayer. Those two verbs combined, watching and praying, equal so you will not fall into temptation. The best thing I can say about prayer is exactly that. There are times where the Spirit of God is in me, and, Glenda, I want more of God, but my body wants sleepy night nights. There are times where I feel this burden in to pray and to seek God or to read my Bible, but my eyes are wanting to see the inside of my eyelids. I know how that feels. You are not the only person who goes to bed at night praying, God, I should probably, you know? Like, just tell the truth, let's call it out, say it what it is. There are times in my life where I put my head on the pillow with the full intention of spending a good amount of time in prayer, and, holy God, Melanie gets so frustrated because I can fall asleep at the drop of a hat. Like, I get my body in the right position, give me my blankie, give me my pillow, boom, lights out, Bill snores like a freight train. Drives Melanie nuts. That's why Nelson's Show says, I need to go to bed first. Rule number, like, six in our marriage, Melanie gets to go to sleep first, because if not, Melanie has to sit up and listen to Bill snore, and I snore like a bear. So, why is this important as a foundation? Because, Shawn, I not only want you to develop a healthy habit of prayer in your life, I want you to understand why it's important. Why is prayer important? Because, Terry, when we spend time watching, being alert, what is going on in your life? Where are the temptations likely to come from? Where are the points where your faith is going to be tested? Nelson, the more you are aware of your life, the more you will be aware of how the enemy is going to test you and tempt you. If you go through life with blinders on, and you're only paying attention to that which is directly in front of you, you are going to miss all these different, what does the Bible say, flaming arrows of the enemy? That's why you're supposed to have the shield, so that it can extinguish the flaming arrows of the enemy. The enemy is not going to only attack you front on when you're looking at them, right? Sometimes, the enemy is going to attack you from over here where you weren't looking, and you're going to have to go, oh, that's why we start with watch. Judy, be alert, pay attention, know what's going on in your life, and in your alertness, be in prayer. When you spend time with God in prayer, you make God important and you make yourself less important. All of a sudden, God's agenda for your life has meaning. Now, with that in mind, what is the purpose of prayer? Prayer protects us from temptation. Now, I want to transition and I want to look at a passage of scripture where Jesus himself is teaching us about prayer. So, if you have your Bibles, please turn with me to Matthew chapter 6. Or, if you're physical or digital, just go ahead and click on Matthew and 6. Matthew chapter 6, we're going to start reading in verse 5. This is during what we commonly call the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus is standing on a heightened, kind of a plateau-style platform, and he's teaching outside to a large group of people. So, Fred, this is not a private teaching for just his disciples. This is really everyone who is listening. So, this is from the beginning of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount. Specifically, Nelson, he references prayer here. We're going to look at Matthew chapter 6. We're going to read from verse 5 to verse 13. So, here it is, Matthew 6 verses 5 to 13, and this, I believe, is the New Living Translation. Jesus speaking. When you pray, don't be like the hypocrites who love to pray publicly on the street corners and in the synagogues where everyone can see them. I tell you the truth, that is all the reward they will ever get. But when you pray, go away by yourself. Shut the door behind you and pray to your Father in private. Then, your Father who sees everything will reward you. When you pray, don't babble on and on as people of other religions do. They think their prayers are answered merely by repeating their words again and again. Don't be like them, for your Father knows exactly what you need even before you ask him. Pray like this. Our Father in heaven, may your name be kept holy. May your kingdom come soon. May your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today the food we need and forgive our sins as we have forgiven those who sin against us. And don't let us yield to temptation, but rescue us from the evil one. Now, you may be familiar with that passage. We commonly refer to it as the Lord's Prayer. During the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus takes a minute and he stops and he teaches us about prayer. What I want to do here is I want to break that passage down and show a couple of really cool points. So, here's your second blank this morning. Prayer is between you and God. Prayer is between you and God. Now, I want to go back and we're sort of going to go through this verse kind of piece by piece. So, prayer is between you and God. Look at how Jesus opens his teaching on prayer. When you pray, and he starts with a negative, don't be like the hypocrites. Stop. That's great advice, by the way, for any day and any time. Don't be like the hypocrites. When you pray, don't be like the hypocrites. And then he defines what they do. Who love to pray publicly on the street corners and in the synagogues where everyone can see them. Stop. This verse reminds me of another story in the Bible. Nelson, there is a Pharisee standing out on the street corner. And next to him is a lowly sinner. And the Pharisee says, Lord, I thank you that I am not like this wretched sinner. Says it out loud. That's exactly what he says. You can look it up, right? Like, oh! He goes, Lord, I thank you that I am not like this wretched sinner. And the sinner next to him goes, Lord, I know that I'm a sinner. Please forgive me. This is exactly the kind of hypocritical prayer that Jesus is talking about here. If you are merely praying so that other people will see you, hi, you're a hypocrite. I love you. I'm so glad you're here this morning so that I can talk to you. But if the only time you pray is so other people can hear you, you are a hypocrite. Furthermore, not only are you a hypocrite, but look at what else Jesus says here. I tell you the truth. That is all the reward it will ever get. If the only time you pray is out loud so other people can hear you and admire how religious you are or how super spiritual you are, then not only are you a hypocrite, but secondly, your prayers most likely are not going to get answered. Look at what he says here. That is all the reward they will ever get. Lynette, when prayer is used pridefully, it hinders its ability to become fulfilled. Terry, our job when we pray to God is to pray to him, not to pray to him while other people are watching. And I'll be honest, I had this huge conversation with Pastor Jack when I first came to C3. I don't like praying out loud in front of the church. Now, Judy, you may go, hmm, that's weird. Like, aren't you the pastor? Isn't that kind of like your job? Yeah, it kind of like is my job. I'll admit that. Melissa, it totally is. But do you know why I don't like praying in front of church? Two reasons. Number one, I get very self-conscious. I have a pretty big vocabulary and I use it naturally. Like, that's just how I naturally speak. And when I speak to God, He's my King. He's my magistrate. He's my liege. And Nelson, my prayers reflect that opinion and that view of God. I speak to him very properly and very humbly. And I also use really, really long sentences. And the problem that I have with that is that's not unnatural for me. But as the pastor, Ann, when I come out and I, if I were to open the service with, let's everybody open in prayer. Lord God, we beseech thy blessing on our gathering of brethren here today as we seek your anointing and spirit. Like, it feels just ungenuine, right? You can tell I'm putting on a show. But if I were to open a service, holy God, I thank you so much for the privilege and the presence that you give us. We've gathered here as your body. Like, that's me naturally. But even naturally, sometimes I've been told that my prayers sound fakey. Like, because sometimes I'll use words that have alliteration. And I'm like, I'm sorry, I'm a pastor. My brain was hardwired to think in words that all start with the same letter. I thank you for your presence and your provision and your protection. Like, I do that naturally when I'm praying by myself. But people hear that and they think, oh, well, he prepared that. He's doing that. And so it really makes me self-conscious because I don't want you to think that's the right way to pray. And we'll talk about the right way in a minute. But if you're praying only so other people can see you, not so good. And then he says this. So he starts out with the negative. Melissa, don't be like a hypocrite. That's a shirt in and of itself. Don't be like a hypocrite. Hashtag truth. Then just stop. Then I tell you the truth. That's all the reward that we'll get. But when you pray, go away by yourself. Shut the door behind you and pray to your father in private. Melissa, your prayer life is between you and God. Other than you asking me a question for advice, my opinion does not belong in your relationship with God. Your prayer life is yours. It's yours and yours alone. Now, Nelson, of course, we could talk about the need for corporate prayer and for husbands and wives to pray together, for parents to teach their children how to pray. All of that is important. I'm not saying that the only time for praying is by yourself. But I am saying the majority of your prayer life should be spent with you and God. If the only time you pray is at church, it's a problem. Can we say that? All right. I'll let you go to work. Have a great day. If the only time you pray is at church, there's a problem there. Here's your next blank this morning. Prayer is not about the amount or size of the words you use. Prayer is not about the amount or size of the words that you use. It is not about the amount or size of the words. Jesus gives a second negative example here. He says, when you pray, don't babble on and on as people of other religions do. Your translation may say as the pagans do. They think their prayers are answered merely by repeating their words again and again. I've got to say, I have been in some churches that they don't follow this rule. Let me just give you an example. And I'm not pointing any church or any denomination out. But has anybody ever been in a church and you've heard a prayer that went something like this? Father God, I thank you, Father God, for your grace, Father God, your anointing, Father God, your awesome presence, Father God. We, Father God, seek you today, Father God. You hear that? It's almost like a drone. Don't get me wrong, Lynette, I believe that God is our Father. I think that's a great moniker. But it shouldn't be stuck in like a religious um. Like you could have just said, um, God, um, we love you, um. And they just took the um out and they didn't know what to say. Lord God, Father God. Don't get me wrong, he is our Father. But you don't need to say Father God five million times in a sentence to make your prayers sound more religious or to be more effective. Jesus is very clear. Don't babble on. And I would add this. The size of the words. Like I said, I'm sometimes self-conscious. My prayers can be very theological at times. But Nelson, I think theologically. You know, I evaluate my life on a theological basis. So it should not matter the word or the amount of words that you use in your prayer life. If you are starting out a habit of regular prayer, please do not be intimidated by the length of your prayers or the words that you choose to use. I remember, um, I remember discipling a young man. This is before I moved here. Nelson, I was pouring into this young man. He was very, very rough around the edges. Brand new to faith. Brand new to Jesus. And we prayed together about something. And the next week when we met again, he said, Bill, Bill, you got, it came true. It was almost like a wish that came true for him. Like he had never believed the concept that you can pray to God. And God will actually answer. And so we're learning this basic principle. And he and I are together and we're praying about this thing, this item. And he comes back the next week and he goes, Bill, Bill, it happened. Like God heard my prayer. And I said, well, then we need to thank God for that. We need to stop and in a moment of prayer say, God, thank you so much that you listen. And he didn't even skip a beat. God, thank you so much. You are so awesome. Like that was his vocabulary at that moment. Like I said, newly saved, brand new to faith. He just threw that F-bomb right there in a prayer. And I know if he had prayed that in church, I had some church friends who would be very offended. But he was expressing his heart through his natural vocabulary. Now, yes, later we did talk about word choice and character and all these other things. But you know what I didn't want to do, Terry? I didn't want to squash his passion. He was passionate that he prayed and God answered. And he expressed that passion in the only way he knew how. Again, you don't clean the fish before you catch them. It was my job to then teach that lesson that maybe there are words you might not want to use in prayer. But God, you are so effing awesome! Was the beginning of this young man's prayer life. He since then has gotten quite better. Just to give you the, you know, at the end of the movie, seven years later. No, he did get better. But in that moment, he was not concerned about the word choice that he used. He had a feeling, he had an emotion. He had something he needed to express. And in the infancy of his faith, Judy, he did the best he knew how. And I saw that. Some of the other people who saw it were a little less gracious. And they wanted to just squash him. And I said, let's take this as a moment for teaching, not rebuking. You rebuke somebody when they knowingly do something wrong. Like, if you know what you're supposed to do and you don't do it, it's different than somebody who didn't know not to do it. You know what I'm saying? No pointing fingers. Elbows are completely acceptable. Don't babble on as people of the other religions do. In fact, I'm reminded of the story. Does anybody remember the story of Elijah on the top of Mount Carmel? If not, I'll give you the short replay. Elijah is a prophet of God in the Old Testament. And during this time, the children of Israel were worshipping pagan God. God's name is Baal. And he challenges the prophets of Baal to a showdown on the top of this mountain, Mount Carmel, not the kind you put on a Sunday. And so there's this line in the sand. And on this side, it's Elijah, prophet of God. And on this side, there's 400 prophets of Baal. And the challenge is this. We're both going to build an altar. Lynette and you build an altar and I build an altar. We both get one cow. You're going to slaughter it, put it on your altar. I'm going to slaughter mine and put it on my altar. And we're going to pray and see which God can send fire down from heaven to consume this offering. And of course, it's challenging Baal directly on his own turf because Baal was supposed to be the God of weather. So Elijah chose a challenge specifically to point out the falseness of this God. Well, obviously, if you know the story, you know what happened. The prophets of Baal, they begin their thing and they're worshipping and they begin their babbling. They begin cutting themselves and bleeding on the altar and all this crazy stuff. And they just keep ramping themselves up almost into a frenzy because they believed that if they got frenzied, their God would answer. Now, I do believe we can make this mistake in church today sometimes. We can get so excited about the emotional value of what we're doing that we forget about the God who's truly behind it. Jesus is saying, listen, it doesn't really matter how many words you use. And look at what he says. Don't be like them. For your father knows exactly what you need before you ask him. Sean, it's not about how many words you can use to describe what your needs are in prayer because if you believe in an omniscient God, God already knows. Well, then Pastor Bill, why do I got to say anything? Because it's the relationship that prayer builds. It's not that God doesn't need to know your needs, but how many of you have children and you still like them to come and talk to you? I know what my children want for their birthday presents. That doesn't mean I don't want them to come and talk to me about it. Well, God the Father is just that much more of a heavenly Father than we are. Prayer is not about the amount or size of your words. Here's your next blank this morning. Prayer should put God first. Prayer should put God first. Prayer should put God first. We're going to continue in our text verses 9 and 10. Now Jesus shifts. First, Glenda, Jesus is giving us two negative examples. Don't pray like the hypocrite. Don't pray like the pagan. Both very good. But now Jesus flips the educational paradigm and he gives us an example. This is what we call the Lord's Prayer. And I've kind of divided it into two halves so you can see the two different points here. The first is this, our Father in heaven. Stop. We can stop with just our Father. What is Jesus saying? Or again, remember he's teaching. So this isn't just a prayer that he is praying, but Fred, this is a prayer that he is praying out loud to teach. What does our Father teach us? Well, when we say it, Fred establishes two things. First, our relationship to God. He is the Father. We are his children. But secondly, our Father. Not just my Father. Jesus often says in the testament, my Father. He says, our Father. Nelson, he also establishes that when it comes to prayer, you and I are on equal footing in our relationship with God. You can call God your Father and I can call God my Father. So therefore, he is our Father. In the opening two words of Jesus's example prayer, he establishes the relationship of the church. Terry, you are God's son and I am God's son and Doug is God's son and Fred is God's son and Lynette is God's daughter. And I could go to every single one of us, but he is jointly our Father. He establishes not only our relationship to God, but our relationship with each other as equals in God's family. Our Father in heaven, and he says this, may your name be kept holy. May your name be holy, separate, greater than everything else. We put God first. May your kingdom come soon. So not only is God's name primary, but now we've talked about God's kingdom, God's agenda, God's agenda for the world, God's kingdom. And third, may your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. God's name is holier, greater than ours. God's kingdom, his agenda, greater than ours. And God's will, or God's guidance of my specific life, greater than ours. In the very beginning of Jesus's prayer, he establishes that Judy, God is first and Bill is second. God is first and Nelson is second. Prayer helps remind your heart of where your place is in your relationship with God. I find Christians all the time who want to take God's word and twist it and bend it so that it suits their own preconceived ideas. Well, that doesn't put God first, does it? That puts me first, changing God's word to equal my opinions. But when we spend time in prayer and the Holy Spirit softens our heart and we remember that God is really the primary agent in my relationship with him. I am the secondary agent. I am permitted to speak to him. And you know, Lynette, even I'm the initiator of prayer sometimes. I can choose to pray. I can choose when to pray. That still doesn't mean because I am the initiator of the conversation that I am the primary agent of that conversation. So the next one was prayer puts God first. And here's the one after that. Prayer reminds us of our need for God. Prayer reminds us of our need for God. Prayer reminds us of our need for God. Let's look at the final two verses of our selection this morning. Chapter 6, verse 11 through 13. Give us today, most of you are probably in your heads going, our daily bread. Give us today the food we need and forgive us our sins and forgive those who sin against us. And don't let us yield to temptation but rescue us from the evil one. You see how many requests are here? Let's break them down. First request, give us today the food we need or give us today our daily bread as sort of the older version of that. To me that totally reminds me of the manna that God gave his children in the wilderness. Forty years of wilderness wanderings and God delivered fresh manna every single day. Why day? And I like the way the New Living translated it as give us today the food we need, not just our daily bread. The word daily in the daily bread literally meant the food for that day only, just like the manna in the wilderness. It was for that day. Oftentimes we can believe that God is, you know, Terry, let me pick on you. I know we both own our own businesses. So we sometimes can believe that God is sovereign enough to provide for us on the big scale. He's provided the gig. He's provided the tools. He's provided the partners. He's provided the work. But then do we also get up and on a daily basis remember that God has provided the health for that day, the energy for that day, the air in our lungs for that day. Not just remembering God's provision on the big scale, but Fred, we should be dependent on God's provision on the daily scale. Thank you Lord for today. Thank you Lord for what I get to do today. Remembering God's provision, give us today the food we need. Second request, forgive us our sins. Now Doug, that's a specific request that only God can fulfill. Man cannot forgive his own sin. Only God can forgive our sins. So we ask God for his provision on a daily basis. Which also, to be honest, it reminds me of my daily need for God. And it'd be super easy to just put it in neutral and just sort of go through the motion. Monday turns to Tuesday. Before you know it, it's Thursday. It's Saturday. We sleep in. We skip church. You know, all of a sudden the days can run on. But when you are stopping and remembering, Lord thank you for today. You know, Nelson, just think about what's your Tuesday look like? What can you be thankful for that's on your Tuesday schedule? God, when you wake up Tuesday morning, Lord thank you for today. Now look at my calendar. God, I thank you for my 10 o'clock, blah blah blah blah blah. Lord, I thank you for my 2 o'clock, blah blah blah blah blah. God, I thank you that it's 7 o'clock tonight. I've got a meeting with da da da da da. Be thankful in the moment. That's that daily. Then forgive us of our sins. That's something only God can do. As we forgive those who sin against us. Huge point here. And this is a partial of a theological tar pit. So let me try to help you navigate this. Forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. Does us forgiving others automatically forgive ourselves? No. Okay. This is not to be read that Fred, if you sin against me and I forgive you, that God's going to forgive me because I forgave you. The two are not linked in a causal relationship that way. We are required to forgive those who sin against us because Lynette, we have already been forgiven of so much. The point here is, Nelson, you have been forgiven by the infinite loving God who is perfect in all ways. Why do you have any right not to forgive another human being who's not perfect? How can you on one hand accept the full loving blessing forgiveness of God but hold something against someone else? That's what that's supposed to mean. Don't read it and accidentally go, well, you know, I forgave Fred when he ran over my toe the other day. So it's totally okay if I go out and blah, blah, blah. No. That's not what it's supposed to mean. Your forgiveness of others, Julie, should be implicit and you're accepting forgiveness from God because we have forgiven of so much. Because I've been forgiven of so much. I got no right to hold anything against y'all. You also don't give me a whole lot of reasons. So Maria, it works out pretty nice. Finally, look at this. Don't let us yield to temptation. Now, we of course know that Jesus lived a sinless life. So Jesus isn't talking about himself. Julie, Jesus is the Son of God. He lived a sinless life. He is at this point already faced off with Satan in the wilderness in his 40 days and he did not yield to temptation. So the only reason Jesus adds this final moniker here is Fred for our benefit. Don't let us yield to temptation but rescue us from the evil one. Jesus knows that every man has his breaking point. Every woman has their breaking point. You have got to be in prayer and know where that breaking point is and avoid it. Don't let the enemy push you to the super stressed, maxed out point that you just give in to sin. Pray and seek God to avoid that point. They call it the point of no return. Avoid the point of no return. Father, please don't let me yield to temptation but rescue me when the enemy sends temptation my way. Rescue me when the enemy sends temptation. Help me. But that's done in prayer. That's done in communication with God. So how do we wrap all this together? The simple answer is this. You've got to have prayer as a daily element in your life. I would almost say multiple times a day. So I want to give you some practical advice. This is exactly what I tell every new Christian when you are starting out. This is what I want you to do. Nelson, you drive to work, right? How many times a day would you say you get in your car and start the engine? At least twice, going to work and coming home from work. So there's at least two times a day where you're sticking that key in and you're turning it. Every time you crank the engine in your car, start praying out loud until you can't anymore. Most of us travel alone in our vehicles. I drive. Every time I drive, I'm by myself. I'm making a grocery run or I'm going to visit somebody in the church. Every time you stick the key in the ignition and you do this motion, stop and make that a time for prayer. If you're in your car by yourself, it's a perfect little prayer closet. It even has a seat belt. It's a perfect opportunity to take a few moments to spend some private time with God. So here's your practical advice for this week. Every time you crank the engine in your car, pray for as long as you can out loud. In your car, you're by yourself. You can put a little Bluetooth headset on if you want. So when you stop at red light, people just think you're on the phone. Because somebody asked me that, if somebody passes me, they're going to think I'm crazy. I said number one, people think I'm crazy all the time. It doesn't seem to stop me. But you can put one of those little Bluetooths on or shoot, now most cars have Bluetooth built in. They wouldn't know if you're on the phone or not. But you've got to make prayer a daily habit in your life because your spiritual health depends on it. Let's take a look at your connection card this morning. Every week at C3, I challenge people to take a next step. So let's look at the next steps for this week. This week, I will read the five-minute moments each day. For the rest of this series, that is going to be on there because the five-minute moments are targeted to help you begin these habits for health. The five-minute moments are specifically targeted this week to encourage you to get into having a prayer life. Your second next step. This week, I will spend time together or praying together with my family. Now this translates it from praying by yourself to praying with those who live under the same roof with. I will spend time praying together with my family. Thirdly, this week, I will attend a Tuesday night Bible study. We are starting the book of Genesis. It is a great time to remember to set your alarm and join us. 7 p.m. Tuesday night at Doug and Glen's house. The address is right here in your bulletin. Please do yourself a favor. We talked about it last week. There is a difference between reading God's Word and studying God's Word. And studying God's Word in community is fun. And I will almost go as facts like it's fun-e. We laugh every week and enjoy each other's company while learning the Word of God together. And then finally, this week, I will memorize Matthew 26, 41. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.