We are going to continue our habits for health series this morning. Habits for health. And Amanda, if I could have the title slide for that when you're ready. I know you're doing your social outreach, so that's important. We are going to continue our habits for health series. This marks week three. So Doug, this is the halfway point. We have made it halfway through our conversation about habits. And for those of you who remember, a habit is an adopted, that's a huge word here, an adopted activity practiced regularly until it becomes involuntary. Habits are not necessarily something that you're going to come out of the box knowing how to do. That would just be rote nature. There are times where Trevor, a habit can be adopted. Maybe you have a habit of showering in the morning as opposed to a habit of showering in the evening. Maybe you have a habit of sleeping on your side or sleeping on your back. Some of those things are just adopted because we are the way we are. And you know what, Nelson, when you grow up and you're a big boy and you get married and you have a wife, she might like to go to bed later than you do. Here's a little bit of marriage counseling for you. Always have a discussion about what time bedtime is. Because I bought my wife a Roku so she could plug in headphones because Melanie likes to stay up way later than I do. But I like to get up way earlier than Melanie does. So for both of us to be operating in our mental headspace, Melanie stays up later, but I get up earlier. So our solution is Melanie watches on her iPad or on the TV with the headphones and Bill rolls over and just puts a t-shirt over his eyes, and I don't care. I could sleep through almost anything. I could sleep through a freight train coming through my backyard. So habits are not necessarily, Kevin, things that will come naturally. But they are things that can be adopted. Now like every series at C3, we have a key thought. So Amanda, let's look at our key thought for this morning. Here's the key, whoops. No, go beyond that. Yep, my habits determine my health. Judy, I'm sure you would understand. There are certain habits we have in our daily life that affect our physical health. But that is not what this statement is referring to. It is referring to our spiritual health. There are certain things that we will do or not do that will directly affect our spiritual health. Who remembers the first habit we looked at? Week one, what was our first habit? Reading and studying the Bible. That's exactly right. Spending time in God's Word is uber uber important. Last week we talked about the habit of prayer. That's right. Last week we talked about the habit of prayer. Having a habit of prayer is necessary for your spiritual health. If you will look at the back of your bulletin, it's gonna have some blanks on it this morning. You will see this morning we are talking about the habit of worship. I'm sure this is gonna be a super fun topic for everybody. The habit of worship. Now before I get into this morning's message, I need to give you a precursor, a caveat if you will. Worship does not mean music. Let me say that again. It's not in your notes, but it's the most important foundational principle to understand this morning's message. Worship does not mean music. Worship can include music. We have a worship service. It includes the musical aspects of worship. But Amanda, if we want to get real biblical and real truthful about what does the word worship mean? What does it mean to worship God? We have to accept the reality that our modern-day invention we call worship music. Music is only one form of worshiping God. You can worship God in prayer. You can worship God in song. You can worship God in sacrificial giving. You can worship God in glorifying His name verbally, but not set to music. So I want you to understand when I say the word worship today, and I'm gonna say it a lot Lina, because that's what we're talking about. Don't accept the blinders that Nelson music can only be worshiped. Do not allow that idea in your minds this morning because it is false. Music is a form of worship, but it was never intended to be the totality of worship. Now we've got a lot of scripture to look at this morning, so let me go ahead and give you your first blank. Your first blank is No, that one. Yep. So apparently I didn't put my notes in there correctly for you. I'm sorry. Your first blank this morning is this. God's people worship Him. God's people worship Him. God's people worship Him. Now do me a favor. Take a look at the next slide. Okay. There's a lot here. Doug, we're gonna talk through this for a second, but here's the number one thing I want you to understand. Look down the right side of this. You see the, you see what book of the Bible I got all these verses from? The book of Genesis. Why is that super important? Melissa, we just started our Genesis on Tuesday night. Do you know what doesn't exist in the book of Genesis? The law of Moses. The law of Moses comes in the next book, in the Exodus. So by looking at worship in the book of Genesis, Judy, what we are really looking at is how God's people worshiped Him before the law. So everything we're about to look at is before the law of Moses was given. That means before Jesus came and changed the paradigm, gave salvation. It means before the Holy Spirit came and changed the paradigm, gave salvation. It means before the Holy Spirit fell in the book of Acts. This is, in my opinion, the most true example that I could find of worship in a biblical context. Because this is the way we worshiped God before we had any structure to our worship. Make sense, Terry? Let's take a look at how people worshiped God before the law, before Jesus, before the Holy Spirit, before the age of the church that we have today. Very first, Cain and Abel, the very first human beings to be born outside of the Garden of Eden. Right? Cain and Abel are the firstborn children of Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve were the first people to be ejected from the Garden of Eden. So Lena, I don't even get one generation outside the Garden of Eden, and people are worshiping God. And look at what they did here. Cain and Abel brought gifts to the Lord. Now, if you remember the story of Cain and Abel, it doesn't really end on a happy note. Okay? I know that. I know there's going to be some some homicide in here, and some brother killing brother, and all that fun stuff. But what I want you to see is before all of that, there was worship. God's people worshiped him. Cain and Abel brought gifts to the Lord. Enosh. Does anybody know who Enosh is? Close. Somebody said it. That's right. Seth. Cain and Abel are the firstborn children of Adam and Eve. Cain kills Abel. So now there's only one child. Eve has another son. His name is Seth. S-E-T-H. Seth's firstborn son is Enosh. So Enosh, in effect, is Adam and Eve's grandson. So you're following me there, right? So it's the very next generation. Adam and Eve's grandson, Enosh. Scripture says Enosh was the first person to worship the Lord by name. Calling him the Lord. Enosh is the first person to worship the Lord by name. So Sean, Cain and Abel, they worshiped God by bringing things and bringing offerings to him. Enosh worshiped God by name. That means verbally. Kevin, Enosh praised God verbally, and even so as to use his name. Fast forward a couple more generations. The story of Noah. How many of you realize God instructed Noah to take animals for worship onto the ark? If you go ahead and look at that reference right there, Genesis chapter 7 verse 2, you'll see that God tells Noah to take seven pairs of each animal. Animals for eating. So that kind of plays into our Tuesday night discussion, those of you who were there. Animals for eating and animals for worship. So Noah is instructed to bring animals for worship. Fast forward to Abraham, progenitor of the entire Hebrew nation. Abraham worshiped the Lord, and there are three separate references to that. Abraham begins, you know, the Abrahamic covenant. We talked about that in October. Abraham is the very first who starts that patriarchal line of the Jewish nation. Abraham worshiped the Lord. Abraham's servant, and here's an interesting story. Abraham, you guys know, he traveled away from his homeland. Is this distracting to anybody? Because it doesn't bother me a bit. Okay, if it is, just let me know. Nelson, close the door if you have to. All right, Abraham, he has traveled to a foreign land, but he does not want his son to marry a foreign woman. He wants someone from his clan. So he sends his servant out in seek of a bride for his son, and when that servant finds the right gal, Jill, what if you could send out an emissary to go and search out the right girl for Trevor to marry? You pick out your own daughter-in-law. That's what Abraham does here, in essence. He sends out, and in Genesis chapter 24 verse 26, Abraham's servant worships the Lord for finding the girl that Abraham sent him out to find. Isaac, Abraham's son, named Isaac. Isaac worships the Lord in Genesis 26, 25. His son, Jacob, Joseph worships the Lord. His son, Joseph, worships the Lord. Before we even make it to the Jews being enslaved in the nation of Egypt, which happens pretty much between the end of Genesis and the beginning of Exodus, they were already worshiping God in multiple ways. So here's what I want you to understand from this short history lesson. Worship is the single most defining characteristic in the life of a believer. I'll say that again. I even put it in blue so I'd remember to say it. Worship is the single most defining characteristic in the life of a believer. There is nothing more defining of your faith than worship. So before I move off of this screen, let me take you down a short story. And since I have a lot of ladies here, ladies, you'll have to help me. You'll know when your part's coming. Those of you ladies who are married or otherwise romantically involved, Valentine's Day is coming, right? Guys, I'm about to get you all in trouble so just step up. Valentine's Day is coming. And let's imagine the day of Valentine's Day arrives and your husband, your boyfriend, your suitor, he greets you at the door when you arrive home from work or from travel or wherever you are with two fistfuls of your favorite flower. We'll call them roses, but maybe you're allergic to roses, you like something else. Your man greets you at the door, two fistfuls of the most beautiful flowers ever, and he hands them to you in an obvious action of, I love you honey, happy Valentine's Day. Half the women in the room are now smiling. So how would that feel? It'd feel good, right? You would feel appreciated, you would feel loved, you would feel that he thought of you. Those of you who know the five love languages, there's your gifts, there's your acts of service. You would feel very appreciated. And you would turn and you would say to him, honey, thank you so much. Now what would it do, what would it say to you if he said, Kathy, I'm just doing my duty and walked off? All of a sudden that small little sentence, whoa, that changes a whole lot about the intended meaning of the gift, doesn't it? All of a sudden he's changed the motivation by which he got you the flowers. All of a sudden, instead of it being, honey, I love you so much, I want to show you my love and appreciation to, well, yeah, it's just doing my job, just doing my job, I'm your man, I gotta buy you flowers. Doesn't it taint the value of the expression if it's only done out of duty? Let me say that again. Doesn't it change the value of the expression when it's only done out of duty? I will be the first to admit, there are times that I walk into church and I play and I sing because it's my duty, not because I'm trying to express my feelings to God. That's really that key part of worship that we need to talk about. If you only are doing it out of duty, out of practice, out of habit, out of what you're used to doing, and there's not a feeling of love and appreciation for God behind it, it's just like saying, honey, here's your flowers, just doing my job, I'm out, check the box. You feel that difference? All of a sudden when you start making it personal, so you're talking about my roses on Valentine's Day, you better have a good preach. All of a sudden the attitude of the heart affects the reception of its transmission. That's what I want to talk about today. I don't want to just talk about, I mean, we could go into the theology of worship and the hymnology of sacred music and we could have this huge, heady conversation about lots of really big three-letter, you know, three-syllable theological words, but Amanda, at the end of the day that may not change your heart and so then I'm not doing a good job. I could teach you a lot or I could challenge you a little. So in preparation for this morning's message, my goal is to challenge you and if it ends up being a lot, I'm really not that sorry. So let's take a look at point number two. We've already seen God's people worship him even before the establishment of the law. Here's your second point. God expects, no not that one, I really messed up your notes this morning, not that one either. No, you know what I didn't do? I didn't delete out all the extra things I put in my notes for me. God expects our worship is your next point. It's in your blank. God expects our worship. It should be right before that slide. There it is. Yeah, I have all these extra things in my notes to try to make me remember stuff. Apparently I forgot to delete it, so I'm sorry about that. God expects our worship. Not only do we see that the worship of God is a defining characteristic of believers, but now I'm going to hit you. I'm going to slap you right on the jaw. God expects your worship. If you have your Bible with you, turn to the book of Exodus. It's the second book of the Bible, Genesis Exodus. If you're on digital, just you know hit the chapter thing and look for EX. There's only one book in the Bible that starts with EX. Exodus chapter 20, quite possibly one of the most famous chapters in all of the Bible. Exodus chapter 20, and I would like us just to look at verses 2 through the beginning of verse 5. Exodus chapter 20, I'm going to read verse 2 through the beginning of verse 5, and we got it for you on the screen in the New Living translation. So this is Exodus chapter 20 verses 2 through 5a. This is what it says. You're probably going to recognize this when I start reading it. Then God gave the people all these instructions. I am the Lord your God who rescued you from the land of Egypt, the place of slavery. You must not have any other God but me. You must not make for yourself an idol of any kind or any image of anything in the heavens or on the earth or in the sea. You must not bow down to them or worship them for I the Lord your God am a jealous God who will not tolerate your affection for any other God. Now does that sound familiar anybody? Again, possibly one of the most famous chapters out of all the Bible, the 10 commandments. And do you notice Nelson, I don't even get past the first two commandments and the concept of worship is right there. Let's look through this again. First God says I am the Lord your God establishing who he is. Now why does he get to say to Moses and the nation of Israel I am the Lord your God? Somebody connect it to the Abrahamic covenant. What did he say? I will be your God and you will be my people. God had already promised Abraham already way back so many generations ago. Kathy, you my peoples. You my peoples and your children gonna be my peoples and I'm gonna be your God. God already had a covenant relationship with the nation of Israel going back all the way to Abraham. He says I am the Lord your God. The second thing who rescued you from the land of Egypt, the place of slavery. Jill not only are you my peoples and I'm your God but I just rescued you from slavery. The people he is talking to witnessed the 10 plagues of Egypt firsthand. Just understand that. Lena chronologically these are the very human beings that God crossed the Red Sea. So they are witnesses, human witnesses to all the miracles of the 10 plagues. These are the people who walked through the Red Sea on dry ground and the Lord says I rescued you from the land of Egypt your place of slavery and there's the first commandment. You must not have any other God but me. Ain't no place but one but one. You cannot have more than one number one. I have to say I'm super guilty of this Sean. I have like a favorite movie every week and unfortunately it just keeps changing. So then I've gotten to well I have like okay even in the Bond films because I was talking a lot of Bond films with my friend this week. I have to categorize them. I don't really have my favorite Bond film. I have my favorite Pierce Brosnan Bond film and then I have my favorite Roger Moore Bond film and I have my favorite Connery Bond film because I love them all. I just love them in different ways. I got my favorite comedy then I have my favorite romantic comedy. I have my favorite action movie. I have my favorite animated movie. I have lots of number ones but what God is saying here is when it comes to worship Terry there's only one number one. You cannot have more than one number one and God is saying I'm it. Nelson you will not have any other gods before me. Now the second commandment you must not make for yourself an idol or any kind of image of anything in the heavens or on the earth or in the sea. Why? Because idolatry is still worship. You see that right? God defines who he is. I'm the Lord your God. I'm the person who rescued you from Egypt. Don't have any other gods but me. Then he follows it up. Commandment number two don't have any idols. Why? Because idols still draw our worship. Now I know somebody sitting here thinking well we live in 2016. We don't have any idols today. You don't see people walking into temples and bowing down to weird shaping rocks and crystals and anything else. No but let's talk about what is worship. Worship is spending time making sacrifices and making life choices based on something you consider more important than yourself. Right? Judy I spend time with the Lord. I give sacrifices of my time and of my finances to the Lord and I make my decisions based on what I believe the Lord would have me do. Can you think of anything else in your life or in our culture that meets those three requirements? Things that people spend their time with that they make sacrifices for and then they make their decisions based on? Social media, cell phone, money. All about and there's really not a Benjamin here but pretend there was. Like I'm rolling that deep but I was gonna say it's all about the well no it's it's really all about oh who was that that's Hamilton and and Washington and Lincoln. That's that's in my wallet. I have presidents they're just right what's it credit credit is an idol. Do you know how much people work and make decisions? You know what that's it that's a great example. I didn't even think of it until you said it. What's in your wallet? Our culture drives itself on the almighty dollar, on currency, on earning, on lifestyle, on clothing. I think social media is a fantastic example. Anything in your life that you elevate to the point that it becomes what you work for, what you sacrifice for, and what you base your decisions off of has become an idol. And the very first commandment don't have any other gods with me. Second commandment don't worship no idols. New international builders. There's only one number one and I'm at number two. Don't worship no idols. Work. I hate the point I'm not pointing fingers. There's not even a mirror behind me. I'm not pointing fingers. Yeah but it's not on my hands right now. That's why that's why I moved over here. Work can be an idol. Social status can be an idol. I know a while back Mellie and I were trying to buy a home and we were noticing how caught up people get in fighting over the right house on the right block with the right address and all this social all of that stuff can be an idol. And God's pretty clear we don't even make it out of of number one and number two. And Amanda we're still talking about the idea of worship. Not only is it a defining characteristic but God actually wants you to worship him. In fact in John chapter 4 verse 23 Jesus is having a conversation with the woman at the well. The Samaritan woman he's at this well by himself. We're going to look at it in a minute. The lady asks him a question about worship and Jesus plain as day the father is seeking those who will worship him. Not only should worship be a defining characteristic of your life but God actually desires your worship. Nelson God actually desires your personal worship. Not just the collective worship of the Christian church. Not even the collective worship of our little group right here. No yours and yours alone. God actually desires our individual worship. So with that as my basic premise worship should be a defining characteristic of your life and God desires your worship. Now I want to transition to trying to help you understand and define worship a little better. So the next blank in your notes should be worship is focusing on God. Worship is focusing on God. Because it's all good and well for me to encourage you and help you understand that you need to worship but at some point I also got to help you understand how to worship. It's one thing to say Ann you better go do it you better go do it you better go do it but if I let you walk out the door and not give you a plan for how I have still not prepared you to adequately create a habit of worship. Worship is focusing on God. If you're following along with me let's turn to the book of Psalms or as someone said in the Wired Word this morning, Psalm. The book of Psalm is right in the middle of your Bible. Psalm chapter 9 verses 1 and 2. I love reading the book of Psalms. I really do. Like if you just need if you want to worship God and you really don't have any worship CDs or you don't want to sing and you're looking for something very worshipful open the book of Psalms and just read it. Just open it and read it. It's so pretty. So I mean just listen to this. I will praise you Lord with all my heart. I will tell of all the marvelous things you have done. I will be filled with joy because of you. I will sing praises to your name. Oh most high. Like that's just beautiful. It's just beautiful to be able to express how you feel about God in words that you don't even need a chord or a key signature for. I will praise you Lord with all my heart. I will tell of the marvelous things you have done. I will be filled with joy because of you. I will sing praises to your name. Oh most high. Like you can read just that much and you can feel the intimacy that comes out of that. Now I want to also let you know where does the word worship come from? Because Maria as we transition to talking about how to worship I want you to understand where the word worship comes from. Our English word worship is a transliteration from a Saxon word and I will do my best not to butcher it but the Saxon word is waleskype. Waleskype. Yes. Whaleskype. You're going to Skype a humpback whale. Yes. Exactly. Whaleskype and it's really spelled really weird so if you want to spell it you can look at my notes later. Whaleskype became worth ship or the value of worth. Something being worth something. So whaleskype when it got translated into English became worth ship which eventually you can see if you said worth ship fast enough it became the word worship. So that's where the word worship comes from. Worship is declaring the worthiness or the value or the worth of something. That's the etymology of where the word worship comes from in English. Worship is not about making God worthy. He is already worthy. Worship is about focusing and declaring his worth. The reason I selected these two verses from Psalms is I think hidden in these two verses right here are a couple very simple very key ways that you can begin a habit of worship. Look at the very first fragment here. I will praise you Lord with all my heart. Worship's all in. Don't be halfway worship. Remember there's there is no number one. I mean there's only one number one. There's not more than one number one. Worship should be all in. Be all in with your heart. Don't be and okay trust me guilty. Don't be sitting in church worshiping wondering if the burger joint you want to go to for lunch is actually on sale or whether that was last week. Okay don't be worshiping going you know what if this preacher would just think and shut up I could totally make my my lunch appointment at blah blah blah or oh my gosh if he doesn't end this altar call our wait at Olive Garden is going to be forever. Don't be halfway about it. If God is worth our worship then that should be worth our whole heart our entire focus. Second I will tell of the marvelous things you have done. Worship must be proclaimed. It's out loud. Now that doesn't mean Amanda that you can't worship God in your car by yourself. Absolutely you can. You can sit in your car at a red light or in a parking lot and you can worship God there just as powerfully maybe sometimes even more meaningful than you do in a congregational setting but make no mistake about it. Worship is about declaring. It's about out loud. I will be filled with joy because of you. When you truly put yourself in a mindset and an attitude of worship it lifts your spirits. Like I will be honest with you it does. When you're having a dark day when I'm having a really bad day you know what I do I turn on some worship you know what I do I turn on some worship music and I play air guitar until I feel better. I'm just saying I can play air guitar like the best of them. I like I should join an air guitar competition and here's here you know you make a really funny joke here's an absolutely horrible musician joke that only Sean and Nelson will really appreciate how horrible it is. You know how you play air guitar? You ever seen somebody play air bass? It's totally true. Air guitar you can be air bass. Air bass just doesn't have as much attitude to it. Why do I say that? Because when you worship God your body your your spirit should respond to that. If not my question is are you really worshiping or are you just reciting something you heard at church? Are you actually worshiping God? Are you engaged? Are you fully focused? All your heart? Or are you merely reciting something that you memorized in a religious meeting? Because there is a difference. You can memorize a worship song and sing it like a song off the radio and it actually still not be worshiped even though the words you are saying are very worshipful because in the middle of your worship you're not actually in it you're just singing a song that you find that you like and this is a massive problem I think that worship in our country has across the board. There are some worship songs Miss Lena that I think sounds super cool. Like I like the musicianship, I like the arrangement, I like the orchestration but I hate the words. I was like please just give me that song but give me just some scripture over it and I'm much happier because I hear the words of the song and you know what I hear Miss Judy? Me, me, me, I, I, I, me, me, I. I hear so many worship songs now that are, Kathy it's just about me. It's about God bless me make me feel this way. Now trust me there's nothing wrong with God save me. God help me but still God is the primary point of that sentence and I am the secondary. What I don't like is worship songs that are all about me, me, me, I, I, I, me, me, I. It just really drives me nuts. Worship should be about God. I'm participating in that. I am a part of that but my focus should be on him not him focusing on me. You get that? That's called hymnology. The study of music in church is called hymnology and one thing I will tell you is it is a massive, what do you call those things that you stand on when you're really irritated about a soap box. So box it's a huge soap box for Melia. What's that? The hoverboard. Yeah no that's the thing you stand on and then it blows up. That's a massive soap box for Melia and I. If you'll notice the songs that we pick to sing at our church they're not necessarily the newest songs although some of them are some of them are not but they are absolutely hymnologically correct. I cannot bring a song to you that I don't feel like you could sing on your own and it still be about God. I just don't like that. So as a personal soap box for me worship must be fully focusing on God. Here's your next blank. Worship is not only focusing on God, worship is responding to God. No skip that. That's the next one. Should be worship is responding to God. That one. Worship is responding to God. We're not only focused on him, we're not only interfacing with him, but we are responding to him. If you have your Bibles turn with me to the Gospel of John. That is the fourth book in the New Testament and now all of a sudden it's getting kind of windy. It's also getting kind of warm or it could just be me because I'm walking back and forth. I don't know. All right the Gospel of John. Fourth Gospel in the New Testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John chapter 20. So the Gospel of John chapter 20. It's very much towards the end of the book. Verses 26 through 28 and I have it here for you in the New Living Translation. This is after Jesus has risen. So this is after the first Easter Sunday. Thomas exclaimed, this to me is a beautiful moment of worship that often gets overshadowed Julie by the doubt. I mean we even call him doubting Thomas. The concept that Thomas wanted evidence for his faith permeates this section of Scripture to the point that we almost miss the fact that Thomas's sentence right here is all about worship. It's all about worship. Thomas wanted to believe. If you read this entire story, Melissa you will see Thomas wanted to believe that Jesus was risen but what he said was until I see, until I see. And so when Jesus appears the second time he focuses exactly on that request that Thomas had. Put your finger here, touch my side and what is his response? My Lord and my God. What I think is interesting is the order in which these words appear and I'll tell you why. You can believe that Jesus is God but not live like he's your Lord. Feel me right? You can live like Jesus is God and still have areas of your life in which he is not the Lord of. You can still have components of your character, relationships, parts of your life. Well you know Jesus I accept salvation. Thank you for being Lord of my family and my church but my entertainment is my choice. Lord thank you for saving me from sin but my xyz is still my territory. That's not having Jesus as Lord. It's merely having Jesus as God or Savior. There is a difference. What Thomas says is first my Lord meaning Trevor I am fully submitted to your teachings. I'm fully in. I'm all in for you to lead me, for you to teach me because you are my God. He could have said him the other way around and I think it wouldn't change the power but he opens with my Lord. If you think about the old-timey sort of King Arthur era when you had a king of your land often you would refer to him as my Lord. Why? Because he is the sovereign in charge of your life. My Lord, my sovereign, my king. We call Jesus the king of kings. Are there still areas of your life in which he is not the king of? Because when Thomas worshiped God he started with my Lord saying I am submitting myself in all of its entirety to you. You are also my God because let's be honest Jesus is still the only person who is evidenced to rise from the grave. Don't be faithless any longer. Believe my Lord and my God. When you truly find your heart in an attitude of worship you will find it redefines and establishes your relationship with God. When we truly put ourselves in a place to worship God you will find yourself reconnecting with God and re-establishing and redefining that relationship that you have with God. And you may discover there's some areas of your life that you thought were submitted to God that aren't any longer. Or you may discover the reverse that there were some areas that you have been resistant for God's influence in that area of your life and now all of a sudden you see God moving in that area of your life. In order to be truly worshipful we must respond to God. Now also say this, Kevin I believe that each of us have our own Thomas moment. Maybe not where Jesus appeared to you in the flesh and he was tangible and you could touch him. Maybe not that has never happened to me I'll be honest. But you know what I do have some moments Nelson where I came face to face with the real living God and and that's all I could do was submit to him because of his greatness, because of his love, because of his mercy, because of his sovereign power, because of his authority. When you have that Thomas moment in your life and you come face to face with the living God and he says to you don't be faithless any longer and believe. Your heart is going to respond my Lord and my God. Don't resist that moment to respond to the moving of God in your life. Here's your final blank this morning. Worship must be sincere or it's hypocrisy. Worship must be sincere or it's hypocrisy. Nobody wants fake worship. I think even unbelievers laugh at fake worship. You know what I'm saying? Like fake just don't give me fake. We're gonna go Gospel of John chapter 4. So now we're actually going to look at Jesus speaking with the Samaritan woman at the well. The Gospel of John chapter 4 we're gonna read verses 19 to 24. Give you the backstory here. Jesus is traveling with his disciples and he sends them into town to go get some lunch and he stops at a well and he has a conversation with this Samaritan woman. In the midst of this conversation the woman asks a question about worship. She is a Samaritan and so here we pick the story up and she's asking this question. Sir, the woman said, you must be a prophet. So tell me why is it that you Jews insist that Jerusalem is the only place of worship while we Samaritans claim it is here at Mount Gerizim where our ancestors worship? Jesus replied, believe me dear woman the time is coming when it will no longer matter whether you worship the father on this mountain or in Jerusalem. You Samaritans know very little about the one you worship while we Jews know all about him for salvation has come through the Jews. But the time is coming indeed it's here now when true worshipers will worship the father in spirit and in truth. The father is looking for those who will worship him that way. Let me read that sentence again. The father is looking for those who will worship him that way. The father is looking for those who will worship him that way. Let me read that sentence again. The father is looking for those who will worship him that way. For God is spirit and those who worship him must those who worship in spirit and truth. Why is this so important? Well two reasons. Number one, Doug this is the only recorded time that Jesus talks about worship of the father directly. There are a lot of other things that he does that are implied worship but here's a direct question and answer response from the Savior about the topic of worship. Two things I want to point out. First, the father is looking for those who will worship him that way. This is the New Testament answer of I am a jealous God don't have any other gods before me. God wants your worship. He desires your worship. He is jealous of your worship. He wants you to worship him. But secondly look, for God is spirit and those who worship him must worship in spirit and in truth. And I have heard a million different interpretations of what the Lord meant when he said in spirit and in truth. I've heard some very figurative interpretations and I've heard some very literal ones. This is what I will say. If you were to ask me Pastor Bill what do you think this verse means? Jill thank you very much. Let me tell you. I believe that the only way to worship the Lord is spirit because God is spiritual. You must have a spiritual connection with God. Secondly, it can't be fake. Don't bring fake worship to God. It's just an insult to his sovereignty. And honestly it's an insult to you if you think you can get away with it. You know God sees the heart. What do we find out in the life of David? Man sees the outside action but God sees the interior heart. God knows the heart that you bring to worship. You know the Matt Redmond song that's just been played a million times. I'm coming back to the heart of worship. The true heart of worship is honest and vulnerable in the presence of God. And it is truthful even to the point of admitting a disappointment. When I worship God I've got to tell him all the time how much of a disappointment I think I am. I'm a rough kid. I'm the black sheep of my own natural family. Let alone the church world. I have some pastor friends of mine we just don't see eye to eye on a lot of stuff. But there's one thing I think every Christian should understand and that's you shouldn't come to church to be fake. Nobody wants fake church members. I don't. I don't think anybody in our church really does. I don't. Truthfully I don't think unbelievers want to come to church and experience fake. We want to find a real authentic God and real authentic people who reflect a desire to love and serve him despite our faults. Not to hide them. I have faults. I have flaws. I am not a perfect human being. I'm human therefore I am fallible. I am still learning. But that doesn't mean my faith is not genuine. In fact the fact I can express my own vulnerability in my opinion illustrates the authenticity of my faith. I'm not perfect. But I'm a work in progress just like everybody else. God is still working in my heart like he is in Kevin's and Ann's and Taylor's and Terry's and Taylor's who's obviously in the other room. And I can say that about every one of us. To truly worship God is to get rid of the idea that it must look a certain way. I think that's what brings a lot of fakeness in church Nelson. Especially when you go to those worship churches. You know and I'm not pointing out any one pastor, any one denomination, any one church. But if you go to that church that's like all about the worship, did you notice that everybody seems to worship the same way? Is that really reflective of the God that created everything to be different? That there's only one right way to worship him? There's only one right style. Southern gospel, black gospel, rock modern, traditional hymns. In fact one of your five minute moments this week is entitled Worship War. Because nothing is more divisive in the church than the idea of music. Oh my goodness, it's horrible. Music can tear a church apart like nothing else. Worse than gossip, worse than sin. How horrible is that? Music can destroy a church faster than sin. Because everybody has an opinion about music. When the reality is we should be united about worshiping God even though we may do that in different ways. When I go visit my parents church, my parents church is a much more traditional Baptist church. They have a nice big black grand piano that my mom plays that's on the left side of the stage. And they used to have a really big pipe organ that was in the walls. A few storms ago the pipes got damaged, they got rid of the pipe organ and then they put in a simulated organ. So the pipe's not actually in the walls anymore but the sound is still there. And truthfully it stays in tune better because it's not as susceptible to the elements. When you worship God, and again we started out by saying that worship is not only music. When you worship God in your private time, Terry, in your private time in the Bible, in your car. When you're expressing, Kevin, how you feel about God to Him alone, don't hold back or be hypocritical in any way. Because if I go all the way back to Exodus, God was pretty clear He's going to have some very, very, very difficult things to say about us putting anything else before Him. And I would argue if you're saying, well I don't want to be 100% truthful or honest in my worship, you're putting your own ego before God. You're saying, I can't be totally honest with God because He won't get it. Exactly. What? We should worship God out of a heart of sincerity. Because if not, if you come to church, and of course I don't think our church is like this. In fact, somebody said, they asked me to describe our church, and I said, our church is kind of like ESPN. And they went, what? I said, we ain't got no drama. We ain't got no drama in our church. I don't think we have a problem being honest with one another. So let me say this. I don't care what style of music our church plays. That should not inhibit your heart for worship. We play the style of music that we play because these are the people we have. And for the five of us, I got to be honest, I think we do a pretty decent job of doing a musical service. But that doesn't mean music is all that worship is. Worship can be prayer. Amanda, if you're doing your observation list, you're getting ready for Tuesday night, that's worship. That's putting God first in your life, spending time reading His word and learning Him. Have an open heart. Be full in while you're doing that. And you make that an attitude of worship. Judy, if you're going throughout your life and you're evaluating your character and your choices based on the Word of God, that's worship. It's worshiping God in the everyday things you do in your life by putting Him first and His word and His teachings and His requirement before your opinions. That's worship. Don't be pulled into the lie that it's not worship if there's not music. A true heart for worship puts God first in all things. There was a really cool quote that I read this week as I was getting ready. Here it is by a man named Donald S. Whitney. No idea who he is, but his book is on point. He wrote a book called Spiritual Disciplines of the Christian Faith. And I think I've probably read this book now two or three times. And every time I read it, it's just like, I'm so horrible. Here's the quote from, actually, I think it's Dr. Donald S. Whitney. He says this, No matter how spiritual the song you are singing, no matter how poetic the prayer you are praying, if it isn't sincere, then it isn't worship. It's hypocrisy. And that's what I really, that's the idea I wanted to close you with this morning. No matter how spiritual the song you are singing or how poetic the prayer you are praying, if it isn't sincere, then it isn't worship. It's hypocrisy.