Now this morning we will begin a brand new series entitled, Set Part, The Call to Live a Holy Lifestyle. And because it's Mother's Day, I get the opportunity to talk about my mom for a minute. So let me take you, Doug, let's go back in time in the life that is now the life of Billy Ohms, which there are certain chapters you just want to skip, trust me. I was there for that. But many of you know I lost my biological mother to cancer when I was nine years old. At the age of 10, my father brought me to my aunt and uncle's house and left me there. And at age 10, I kind of got a restart, for lack of a better term, with a brand new family. My aunt became my mother, my uncle became my surrogate father. Now my biological father is still alive, he's still living, he and I text back and forth. We don't talk very much and that's really more, I'm sure some of you may experience this more on his side. You ever have somebody that you contact a lot but they don't necessarily contact you back a lot? That's my biological dad and you know what? I have dealt with it, I've gone through that, I'm cool with it. I have my uncle and my uncle is really, you know, like when I need to patch a hole in the wall or I need to run a wire through the wall and I need that man advice, you know, you got to call your dad and figure out which tool is the right tool to use. Now I have Dan, I can just call Dan, he's got every tool on the planet. But before I had Dan, I really needed a dad and we'll get back to that one on Father's Day. But my aunt became my new mother. So I moved into their home when I was 10 years old and was in fifth grade and I could walk to school. I was literally only four blocks from the elementary school that I went to. So I would walk to school. Then my aunt got a brand new job and we moved from New Jersey to Tallahassee, Florida. And I learned very quickly that there's this entire thing called Southern culture that I never knew about, that I've never learned about. So I got a very quick baptism by fire into Southern culture. But there's one aspect of growing up in my new family's home that sort of always stuck with me. Does anybody here know what the term guest towel means? Anybody ever heard of a guest towel? Did you guys grow up in a home that had guest towels? Let me explain. This was very new to me. This is something I learned about. And in fact, I texted my aunt to make sure it was okay to tell this story. My aunt is a very great woman. She worked full-time job and she kept the home like freaking Martha Stewart. And whenever it would be a holiday, we had holiday towels and we had guest towels. And so when fall came around, she'd pull out the fall bucket and there was autumn towels. But you can't use autumn towels at Thanksgiving because there's Thanksgiving towels. And then the Thanksgiving towels got to go away on Black Friday because there's Christmas towels. And then the Christmas towels have to come down after New Year's. And that's when the regular guest towels would go back up. Well, I had a hard time remembering which were the guest towels and which were the three-day towels. And I got in trouble on more than one occasion for washing my grubby hands after I was outside playing in the dirt or whatever on the guest towels. And what I finally had to learn was the guest towels had a specific purpose. They were kept nicer. They looked better. They generally had those fun little adornments on them, whether there's like frilly lace on the bottom, which you don't want to wipe your face with lace because or they sometimes had embroidery on them. The guest towels, they looked nicer. They were kept nicer. And because you didn't have a teenager wiping his grubby hands on them five times a day because I had to wash my hands all the time because I got into all kinds of junk, the guest towels always looked nicer. But it took me a while of getting in trouble and having to launder them. And the guest towels get folded differently. For those of you who've ever had towels that have the embroidery in the middle, you've got to fold it in thirds. It's got the embroidery in the corner. You've got to fold it in quarters. Yes, I had to learn all of that when I moved in with my aunt and uncle because the guest towel was important. And I found out how important it was to my aunt one day when it was Christmas time, we were hosting a Christmas party and Bill used the wrong towel. And I got a smear of dirt all over her white, they were, don't do that. Don't, Sean, you marry a woman, she has guest towels, respect the guest towel, brother. Just like marriage counseling 101, respect the guest towel. Why are guest towels so important? Because I could not think of a better way to lay up this new sermon series than to talk about, in fact, one of your five minute moments this week is entitled guest towels. Because it makes the point, Dan, that there is a difference between everyday use items and important items, guest items, items. And what's the real difference? Well, they're both towels. They both do the same function, but their purpose is different. They do the same function, but their purpose is different. And as we get into this morning's message, we're going to kick off this series entitled Set Apart. If you're in the back of your bulletin, you'll notice I've got some blanks. I want you to follow along with me this morning. In order to unpack the topic of holiness, we first must establish what holiness is. Before I can talk to you, Jonathan, about why holiness is important or about what the challenges that we face when trying to be a holy people, before we can do any of that, we have to talk about what holiness is. So that's the title of this morning's message. I want to give you your first blank, and then I want to define for you and help us see in the Bible where this term holiness comes from. So let's take a look at your first blank this morning. Holy means to be set apart. Holy means to be set apart. In fact, this verse right here, this particular point, is the entire reason that this series is titled the way it is. Holy means to be set apart. Now if you brought your Bibles with you, whether they are physical or digital, go ahead and turn to the beginning of your Bible. Everything we're going to look at this morning is inside the Pentateuch, which is the first five books. This morning, I want you to go first to the book of Leviticus, chapter 11, verse 44. I have it for you here on the screen in the New King James Version. We're going to go through a couple different translations this morning. If you see one that you like, write the letters down, ask me about it after church. I'll tell you about it, tell you where you can find one, all that fun jazz. So this is Leviticus 11, verse 44. This is the New King James Version. This is the way it reads. For I am the Lord your God. You shall therefore consecrate yourselves. I am the Lord your God, and you shall therefore consecrate yourselves. Now, do me a favor, circle, long press highlight, whatever one works for the Bible you're using, the word consecrate in this verse. This word consecrate, Jess, is the entire reason that this series is titled the way it is. The original word in Hebrew that we translate as consecrate in our language is kadash or And it literally means to sanctify, to dedicate, to make hallowed or to make holy. To sanctify, to dedicate, to make hallowed or to make holy. In layman's terms, it means to set aside or set apart for the special purpose or use of God. That is what it means to consecrate something, to make it holy. Have you ever heard the term, this is hallowed ground? You hear that a lot in like vampire movies because they can't go into the church or the graveyard because it's hallowed ground. What does hallowed mean? It means to be set apart or set aside for the special purpose, use, and conditions of God. That is what it means to be consecrated. To be holy or to recognize that we are called to be holy by proxy means the same thing, to be set apart. To be holy is to recognize that you are set apart from the rest of the world. Now a little story here. What is going on in the book of Leviticus? Where remember we talked about when you look at the Bible from beginning to end, you've got to have these mental mile markers when big things happen so you can remember the way the story of God unfolded. So those are your Tuesday night, Wednesday nighters. We're in Genesis. Who are we talking about on Tuesday and Wednesday nights? Abraham, right? We're talking about Abraham. His name just became Abraham. He's about to have a son named Isaac. Who's going to have a son named Jacob? Who's going to have a son named? I could have taken any of 12 names there. You could have gone for it. Joseph, Dan, Asher, Reuben, Zebulun, doesn't matter. All of a sudden the nation of Israel is born. They move into what big country? Egypt, to escape a famine. Good job. They move into Egypt to escape a famine. Hundreds of years, generations go by. All of a sudden Egypt enslaves the entire Hebrew nation. And then a guy comes up named Moses. Moses shows up and all of a sudden he is going to free the Israel people. Moses, Ten Plagues, great movie. The old one, not the new one. Actually, truth be told, my favorite Moses film is the Prince of Egypt, the animated one. I cry at that stupid thing every time I watch it. It's beautiful. Val Kilmer's God voice is better than Val Kilmer's normal voice. Like if Val Kilmer could just talk in his God voice all day. I really like that. So then Moses shows up. The children of Israel get set free. They walk across the Red Sea on dry land and then they go to the wilderness. And a couple points we're going to look at when God speaks to them. After God speaks to them at Sinai, he begins to establish his law. And this is where we find the book of Leviticus. Leviticus is a book of the law. God opens with, for I am the Lord your God, you shall therefore consecrate yourselves. We've talked about consecrate. Now go back to the beginning. I am the Lord your God. Here's your second point. God himself is the measure of holy. God himself is the measure of holy. God himself is the measure of holy. If you're in Leviticus, just turn to chapter 19. The very first verse of chapter 19. Now I've got it for you here in the New International Version. So Leviticus 19.1 in the NIV reads this way. The Lord said to Moses, speak to the entire assembly of Israel and say to them, be holy because I the Lord your God am holy. In the previous verse, the Lord identified himself as the Lord your God. And he said, now go consecrate yourself. Go set yourself apart. Be Kadesh, Kadesh, be hallowed, be made separate. Here Nelson, God gives a reason. Speak to the entire assembly of Israel and say to them, be holy because the Lord your God I am holy. The entire reason the children of Israel and by proxy the Church of Jesus today is called to be holy is because we are called by the God who is holy. The entire reason the children of Israel are called a holy nation is not because they in and of themselves in and of their own self-righteousness made themselves holy. It has to do with the fact they were called by the God who was already holy. If I bring that into the New Testament, why do we as the Church of Jesus today consider ourselves to be a holy people? Because we are made holy by the blood of Jesus. We again are a people who are holy, but not because we are in and of ourselves and our nature holy. We are sanctified and made holy, called holy by the God who is himself holy. When you cannot have a conversation about personal holiness and not start with, Miss Anne, all holiness starts with God. There is no holiness that starts with man. There is no holiness in your own personal self-righteous actions. Hopefully after six weeks of Jesus is greater than religion, we have beaten the self-righteous animal out of you. If not, come see me after church. I'm warmed up. I'm good. You cannot talk about holiness and not start with God is the author, source, and ultimate measure of holiness. The only reason man has ever been able to be called any form of holy is because God himself brought us to that point. Old Testament, he called a people his own. We're talking about looking at Abraham. He calls a nation his own. God said, go sanctify yourselves. You will become my treasure. I'm going to set you apart. In the Old Testament, God's people were holy because he called them to be holy. In the New Testament, we have Jesus. He died on a cross. He rose again Easter Sunday morning. Now we can be made right with God through Jesus. Either way you look at it, Old Testament, New Testament, man is only made holy because God himself is first made or first holy. He is the author of holiness. He is the measure of holiness. He is the only one who can make someone holy. Here's point three. God's plan for his people should have been an is in there. Sorry about that. Or no, God's plan is for his people to be holy. God's plan is for his people to be holy. Now with those, our first two points, I know I went through them sort of quick. Mr. Kevin, they are our foundation. They are our foundation for which we're going to now explore the rest of this morning's message. We're going to unpack one specific passage. So everything that we say this morning, understand number one, holy means to be set apart. Holy means to be set apart. Number two, God himself is the author and measure of holiness. With those two points in mind, please turn to the book of Exodus chapter 19. You see there in your notes, the rest of our message this morning is going to come from Exodus chapter 19. We'll begin reading our first point here is going to be the first four verses of Exodus 19. And this will be the New Living translation. So this is Exodus chapter 19 in the New Living. This is what it reads. Exactly two months after the Israelites left Egypt, we just reviewed that, they arrived in the wilderness of Sinai. After breaking camp at Rephidim, they came to the wilderness of Sinai and set up camp there at the base of Mount Sinai. Then Moses climbed the mountain to appear before God. The Lord called to him from the mountain, and said, give these instructions to the family of Jacob. And now the descendants of Israel. God, I did the adjustments. You carried you on eagle's wings, and brought you to myself. If you know anything about the way the Bible unfolds the story of God, Sinai is a big deal. Mount Sinai was a big deal to the Jews in the Old Testament. It became a symbol and a big deal for them in the New Testament. And truth be told, we could do to take a few lessons from the way God dealt with his people in the Old Testament. I know we're the Church of Jesus Christ. I know we have the blood. I know we have the Holy Spirit. But that doesn't stop scripture from being scripture. Fred, it doesn't stop God's character from being the eternal Father that he is. And there's a good thing we can do sometimes to go back and look at the way the Father dealt with his children before we have the access that we have now with Jesus. And this Sinai, this is one of your mental mile markers. Go ahead and just stick one right here at Mount Sinai. Because there's a lot that's about to go on. But this is the beginning of it. Nelson, this is the first thing that happened. Actually no, go to the next one. The whole first slide just establishes where we are. Mount Sinai was not important until now. Remember that. This is the moment in time, this is the scripture, where all of a sudden Sinai became important. Up until that point, it was a mountain. But here, Moses ascends to the top of the mountain. He speaks with God Almighty and God says, you have seen what I did to the Egyptians. Stop. What is he talking about? What is God saying when he said you have seen what I did to the Egyptians? The ten plagues and the parting of the Red Sea. All ten plagues and the parting of the Red Sea. Take all eleven of those things and roll it up. In fact, it's really not even those eleven. After the ten plagues, the children of Israel left. God guided them in a pillar of smoke by day, a pillar of fire by night. They reach the edge of the Red Sea. They have water in front of them. The army of Egypt is trailing them to kill them. And all of a sudden, God sends down literally a firewall. Interestingly that's the same terminology we use today. Literally a wall of flame to protect his children. Then the Red Sea parts, they walk across the Red Sea. You put all of that together, what do you get? Miraculous power of God. There is no way you can ignore the fact, Dan, God brought his children out of bondage and into freedom with his power for this purpose. God's miraculous power brought forth this purpose, that they would be holy. Just as much as I could say in the New Testament. We are all here today because the miraculous power of God hung on the cross at Calvary was resurrected from the tomb at Easter. And that very same miraculous power that freed the Egyptians from their bonds of slavery, freed the church from its bonds of slavery to sin. You see how the New Testament and the Old Testament, they're saying the same thing. Miss Glena, it was God's miraculous power that called us to holiness. And it is through God's miraculous power we will be able to accomplish holiness. The signs and wonders of the Exodus were God's power saving his people. The signs and wonders of Jesus were God's power saving his people for the purpose of holiness. Take a look, here's your next point, your next blank. Being holy means being obedient. This is where everyone's going to be super excited. Being holy means being obedient. We're going to continue right there in the chapter, this will be verses 5 and 6. Being holy means being obedient. Exodus 19, 5 and 6, still in the New Living Translation. This is God continuing to speak. Now, if you will obey me and keep my covenant, you will be my own special treasure from among all the peoples on earth, for all the earth belongs to me. And you will be my kingdom of priests, that's huge, my holy nation, also huge. This is the message you must give the people of Israel. So Doug, put yourself back in the mindset. God Almighty is speaking to Moses on top of Mount Sinai, while the rest of the nation who has personally experienced the miraculous power of God waits below the foot of the mountain. Moses is speaking to God Almighty, and this is what God says, if you will obey me and keep my covenant, you will be my special treasure from among all the peoples on earth. Tuesday and Wednesday nighters, we've talked about this several times, God chose for himself a people, a nation in the Old Testament. We know them today as the Hebrews, the Israelites, the family of Jacob, there's a lot of terms for them. God chose for himself a special people, and here he makes it very clear, if you will obey me and keep my covenant, you will be my special treasure. Sean, this is the same thing, if we fast forward to the New Testament, now under the New Covenant with Jesus, God still desires a special and holy people, he still calls that special holy people to be obedient and keep his... The only difference, our covenant now is our New Covenant in Jesus, not the Old Testament law. That's because Jesus does not absolve you from being obedient to God. Like that's kind of a misnomer, right? You know what, I got my Jesus credit card, I am good, charge up as much sin as I want. You see the theological implications. If you don't see the New Covenant that Jesus bought as the fulfillment of the original covenant in which God the Father gave to his first nation in Israel, you will miss the point of holiness. Think about Mount Sinai as the Calvary of the Old Testament, and think about Calvary as the Sinai of the New Testament. God's miraculous power bought from slavery into freedom a people for himself, but in that freedom did not absolve them from obedience. Again, come back to what does the word holy mean? It means to be set apart, it means to be consecrated, kadash, to be made special, like the guest towels, to be used for a special purpose, not an everyday one, to be set aside for a higher purpose, I could say it that way, to be a special purpose for use by God. Now take a look at what he says here. Remember this is Old Testament. You will be my special treasure from among all the peoples on earth. That means there are other people living on earth who were not called to holiness. For all the earth belongs to me. Pretty simple, right? God made the entire earth. But then look what he says. You will be my kingdom of priests. Now everyone in the Old, if you know the Old Testament, you know there were 12 tribes. There was one specific tribe who was called to be the priests and serve God. They were the Levites. That's exactly right. The tribe of Levi, the Levites, they were appointed to be the priests. And yet here God is saying, you will be a kingdom of priests. He is not referring only to the Levites. He is referring to the spiritual nature of the entire nation of Israel. Look at the very next words. A kingdom of priests, my holy nation. There was not a single Israelite in the nation of Israel that was absolved of the responsibility to be obedient and keep the covenant. He's not just saying, oh Levites, you people who serve in my temple, you must be holy. But the other 11 tribes, y'all are good, man. See you after the kegger. That is not what God is communicating. God is saying to his people as a group, all of you will be my kingdom of priests, my holy nation. Now let's fast forward to the New Testament. What does the New Testament say about every believer? That we are all priests. Every believer in Jesus is called a priest. Why? Because we are the New Testament reflection of God's holy people. The church is the bride of Christ. It is intended to be holy, to be set apart, to be for a special purpose. We are the guest towel for Jesus, in a very comical way to say it. Our role as the church of Jesus Christ is to be that reflection of his holy people, his kingdom of priests in our day, in our time, to be set apart, Kadesh, to be set apart for the special purpose and use of God. The only way you understand our purpose as the holy church of Jesus Christ is to understand God's purpose when he called his nation to be holy the first time. Because we are merely the reflection and fulfillment of what happened here at Sinai. Now let's look at what happens next. Here's your final blank this morning. The call of holiness must be accepted. The call of holiness must be accepted. Now we're going to continue right there in Exodus 19. God has called his people, he has called them to be a holy nation, a kingdom of priests. Here let's look at verses 7 and 8. So Moses returned from the mountain and called together the elders of the people and told them everything that the Lord had commanded him. And all the people responded together. Now Nelson, this is the moment right here. We will do everything the Lord has commanded. So Moses brought the people's answer back to the Lord. This is the moment in all of biblical history when the nation of Israel became a guest towel. No longer an everyday scrungy, grubby towel in Egypt. No longer a dirty slave. No longer this. This moment right here with this one sentence, we will do everything the Lord has commanded. They accepted the call to be obedient and to be the holy nation. Nelson up until this point it's been God calling them to be holy but not really seeing the nation of Israel accepting the call and responsibility that came with being holy. With that one sentence right there, the nation of Israel recognizes as a unit. Remember all the elders are there. That represents the authority of the nation of Israel. The elders of all those tribes. That represents the authority of the entire nation. They say in one voice responded together. Much like unity, you see that in the New Testament, all the people responded together. We will do everything the Lord has commanded. And at that moment God gives the call for holiness, his nation accepts it, and they become the holy nation of God. What are you witnessing there? That's the moment in the Bible where the nation of Israel is born. They're a people group. They're an ethnicity. Right? They're an ethnicity when they moved in. But they were just one family. It was just Jacob and his kids and their kids. This is the moment in the Biblical timeline where Israel as a nation, as a political entity if you will, is born into existence and it is born in a moment of holiness. From its inception, Israel was always designed to be a holy nation. Now if the Church of Jesus Christ is the reflection of that, then Ali by the way, it follows into the New Testament. Jesus buys our freedom from sin. We are called to be a holy people as well. When was the Church of Jesus Christ born? That's a great question. When was the moment when the Church of Jesus was born? Anybody want to guess? What was that? No, no, no. The Church of Jesus. In the New Testament, when is the Church of Jesus Christ actually born? It's a huge moment. You cannot miss it in the New Testament. It's not at Cary. I'll give you a hint. It's not at Easter. Ma'am? Yes. Acts chapter 2. They're up in the upper room. They're praying and what happens? The Holy Spirit descends on the day of Pentecost and in a moment, the Church of Jesus Christ is born. And the Church of Jesus Christ is born in the same manner and fashion in which the nation of Israel was born in the Old Testament. We are called to be a holy people. We are the guest towels in the midst of everyone else's everyday wash rags. We are called to be the special ones. We have the lace. We have the embroidery. Dan, not because we're worthy. There is no way on God's green earth that I am worthy of holiness. Trust me, I was there. I got the t-shirt and the bruises to prove it. And there's no way that I could be called holy in and of myself. I was called holy because I was called holy by my Savior. When Jesus bought my forgiveness, He is the one who transformed me from an everyday wash rag into a guest towel. And it is now my job to accept the responsibility to be obedient and to live that which I have already become, which is the guest towel. It is your job. If you accept, let me say this, I'll say it as painfully, truthfully as I can. If you have accepted salvation in Jesus, you have accepted the reality that He has bought your soul with His blood, then you are already a guest towel. If you are going to continue to treat yourself like a wash rag, then mommy's going to get mad, just like my mommy did. If you get soil all over those nice, brand new, neat embroidered white snowmen, it's not me that you're dishonoring. It's not the church that you're dishonoring. You're dishonoring the Savior that bought you and cleansed you and called you to be holy. That's the reality of what holiness is. It's accepting the reality that, Fred, you are already a guest towel, so now you've got to live like it. Jessica, you're already a guest towel, so now you've got to live like it. You're no longer, and you work in food service, so you'll get this. I waited tables for years. You know there's the towels that you wipe the tables with, and then there's the nice napkins you give the customers. If you gave the customers the nasty brownie gray rags that you wipe the tables with, A, you would definitely not get a tip. But it's disrespectful. It's dirty. It's ugly. It's gross. It's disgusting. It's the same thing when you're a guest towel and you live like a rag. That's the call of holiness. Accept the reality. We do not live as holy people because our lifestyle makes us holy. We live as holy people because we've already been made holy, and now we are called to the same responsibility that God called his first nation to, which is live the way I've bought you to be, not the way you want to be. That's the truth of holiness. And in my opinion, like, I'm sorry, I've been trying to talk slower because how excited I am about this idea. But here, I wrote this down. I don't want to say it right. We are called to be holy because of God's grace, not in order to receive it. We are called to be holy because of God's grace, not in order to receive God's grace. You will never earn set apart guest towel status by trying to live holy. The Bible says very clearly, the best righteousness we could ever do is as filthy rags, dirty nasty rags to God. But in his grace, he transforms us into someone who is already holy, and now we have the responsibility to live it out. Now, in the coming weeks, we are going to delve deeper into this topic of holiness. Just give you an overview. The problem of holiness, the reason for holiness, the unpopularity of holiness, the evidence of holiness, and the blessing of holiness. Over the next six weeks, we're going to continue to unpack your new guest towel status to live in the manner in which you have already been bought. You will join me for those. Do me a favor, pull out your connection card. Pull out your connection card and look at the back. Every week at C3, I challenge you to take a next step. This week is no different. In fact, I would almost argue this week is possibly one of the most important opportunities to take a next step. So let's take a look here. This week, I will examine the current state of my holiness. Courage required. This week, I will examine the current state of my holiness. And I mean by holiness, measuring to God's standard. There is no such thing as collaborative holiness, okay? Miss Anne, just because I am holier than my neighbor doesn't make me holy. It just makes me less dirty. You get the difference there, right? You cannot establish holiness by measuring against anything else other than He who made you holy. Number two, this week I will ask a friend about my personal holiness. Here's a little caveat. If you're married, ask your spouse. Be prepared to sleep on the couch. You want someone to give you the honest opinion? Ask someone who will be honest with you. Don't ask someone who will just say, oh, you're better than me, you must be holy. That is not an acceptable answer. God is the only standard by which if you need someone to be honest with you, call me. I don't have a problem with honesty. We can have some very, very, very in-your-face honest talks. Number three, I would like to talk to someone about my personal holiness. This is going to be on your cards for the rest of this series. I'm going to be bluntly honest with you. Holiness is difficult. You know why, Dan, holiness is difficult? Because when you accept the call to live as a holy person, you must accept the responsibility that that is against your inner nature. Like we're sinful people. Why do we like to sin? Because sin is fun. Sin is attractive. Sin tells you that it's really more satisfying than it is, and until you get waist deep in raw sewage, you don't realize you're not swimming in the hot springs. Sin is a lie, but it's a lie, Amy, that we suck down every day, that sin is always more fun than righteousness. When you choose to realize that you're a guest towel and you should no longer be swimming in sewage, you have to go against your natural fleshly nature, and that is because your natural fleshly nature is a rag, and you're not a rag anymore. You're a guest towel, and you need to start living like one. So if you would like to have some one-on-one, very confidential, very private conversation about dealing with whatever the personal holiness issue is in your life, I'm not here to point fingers. Trust me. We can sit down one-on-one, and I will let you know how imperfect your pastor is. Most of you who know me, you already know. You guys could probably fill in the blanks, those of you who have been around long enough. There is no point in playing a religious game and comparing which one of us is least dirty. That's just stupid. When we compare to the grace of God, who called me to be a guest towel when I was still full of mud and sewage, and He said, no, this one's a guest towel now. It's a challenge to begin to live that way, because, Jesse, it would be different if we earned our holy status working at it little by little. It would be easier to accept that, oh, I've got to give this up, and I'm working towards this because eventually I'm going to get there. But, Sarah, when you're just magically transported to guest towel status, your life yesterday was the same as it was the day before. You have to learn how to live that new life, and that doesn't come by accident. And I'll tell you something else. It doesn't come while you're alone either. Somebody who says, I'm a Christian, but I don't need a church, never read the rest of their Bible. They took a salvation point and skipped all of the rest of the body of Christ and unity and everything else that comes with it. I'll say it clearly. You cannot be a healthy Christian without being connected to a church family. Sure, you can be saved, and when we get to heaven, you can have a tent. Because if you remember anything from the end of today's series, if you already know Jesus, we don't have to fear judgment. We just have to get to the awards ceremony and find out who was funniest man of the year. So this week, I would like to talk to someone about my personal holiness. And then for Leviticus 11, 44, that's the verse that we started out with this morning. I don't need to put it up there. Talks about being consecrated for God, being set apart, Kadesh. I have drilled the word guest towel into your brain today, because that's what I want you to think about when you go home today. I want you to think about the reality that you are already a holy person, even though you may not live like it. You are already holy and perfect in God's eyes, not because of your own merit, but because of the grace of Jesus. And if you are already holy, do you really want to take the guest towel and change the oil in your car with it? If you are already holy guest towel status, do you really want to take your holy status into the not so holy aspects of your life? And all of us have them, so let's just put it down. All of us have areas in our life where we fall short. Why? Because we are all sinful. We are all sinful. We fall short of God's grace. It doesn't mean you don't try. It doesn't mean you go, whoop, whoop, screw it up, try again tomorrow, don't you know. That attitude is what is ultimately disrespectful to God's grace. Well, I'm already a sinner, so what's five more sins for today? No, how about you're already a holy person, so try to live like it today. That's the truth. That's what holiness is.