We're going to continue our series entitled Jesus is Greater Than Religion and I have to say I am particularly excited about this morning's message, Jesus is Greater Than Judgment. Jesus is Greater Than Judgment. Very poignant topic today, especially if you were in The Wired Word this morning and they were discussing some of the new laws that have been passed in our country. I think this morning's message, Jesus is Greater Than Judgment, will touch on several of those aspects. If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of John. The Gospel of John, that's the fourth Gospel in the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. We're going to be in chapter 8. So John chapter 8. We're going to read the first 11 verses of John chapter 8. I have it for you here on the screen in the New Living Translation. So this is John chapter 8 verses 1 through 11 in the New Living. This is what it says. Jesus returned to the Mount of Olives, but early the next morning, he was back again at the temple. A crowd soon gathered and sat down, a crowd soon gathered and he sat down and taught them. As he was speaking, the teachers of religious law and Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in the act of adultery. They put her in front of the crowd. Teacher, Jesus said, this woman was caught in the act of adultery. The law of Moses says we should stone her. What do you say? That's my best creepy trap voice. They were trying to trap him into saying something that they could use against him, but Jesus stopped and stooped down and wrote in the dust with his finger. They kept demanding an answer, so he stood up and said, all right, let the one who has never sinned throw the first stone. He then stooped down again and wrote in the dust. When the accusers heard this, they slipped away one by one, beginning with the oldest until only Jesus was left in the middle of the crowd with the woman. Then Jesus stood up and said to the woman, where are your accusers? Didn't even one of them condemn you? No Lord, she said. And Jesus said, neither do I. Go and sin no more. story of Jesus in the temple showing us what he is all about. Now I want to give you your first blank and then I want to tear up this passage because Miss Judy, I am super A1 number five certified excited about this passage. So here's your first blank this morning. Your first blank is they set up an unfair standard. They set up an unfair standard. They set up an unfair standard. Now I want to go back through these 11 verses and sort of unpack it a little bit. So let's take a look at the first two and a half verses. This is John eight one through three A. So the first half of verse three. Jesus returned to the Mount of Olives, but early the next morning he was back again at the temple. Stop. Dan, just like last week, the setting for our story this morning, the setting for the engagement, the discourse between Jesus and the religious elite of his day is the house of God. If there was ever a moment to stop in church and go, maybe we should consider the judgmentalism has seeped in and infected the walls of the church. Because the setting for our story this morning takes place. Jonathan in the very house of God. A crowd soon gathered and he, Jesus, sat down and taught them. As he was speaking, huge, huge point here. As he was speaking, the teachers of religious law and Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in the act of adultery. So just put yourself in perspective. We're in the middle of church right now. Jesus is teaching in the house of God and from the back or the side or wherever in burst in, was that me? Oh, okay. Sorry. If from inside the house of God bursts in all of these teachers of the religious law, all these religious elite and their huge garb and their, I'm holding you robes right in the middle of his teaching. You have to know this was disruptive. And Amanda, I think it was disruptive intentionally. I think they intentionally waited because you say here they're trying to trap him. This was a scheme. Abbs, they had thought this through and figured out what they were going to do. And Doug, I believe they chose the moment where it would maximize bringing the attention to what they were saying. So they wait until Jesus, people are sitting down. They're intently listening to the Savior teach. The Messiah is in the house of God and boom, in walk these religious elite teachers and disrupt his teaching. And Dan, they toss in front of him a woman caught in adultery. Two things I want to point out here. Number one, how many people does it take to tango? How many people did they throw in front of Jesus? Does anybody notice a discrepancy here? Somebody's missing from the story. Somebody's missing from the story. The Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in the act of adultery. There's no way she's guilty of this sin by herself. She cannot be caught in the act of adultery alone. And yet, Ali, she is the only one brought to bear for the consequences of that action. So before we even get into the story, there is an unfair standard here at play. They automatically let the man slide. He's not even up for penalty. And yet, they grab the woman and they throw her into this unfair scenario. In fact, the Gospel of John, the movie we watched when Tuesday Nighters, we got done studying the Gospel of John, I love that movie's portrayal because they literally are holding her by the arm and they kind of gently, but not so much, toss her to the floor. I mean, she falls at Jesus' feet. And I think the imagery of that is so beautiful that this woman was yanked out of the act of adultery and tossed into the house of God and being accused. And yet, Dan, there's no way in the story. So from the get-go, the religious elite of Jesus' day had set up an unfair standard. For person A, adultery is acceptable, but for person B, it's not. Because in order for them to be completely fair, they would have needed to bring in both witnesses, or both participants. Now, you don't have to turn there and it's not going to be on your screen, but here is Leviticus chapter 20 verse 10. This is the law of Moses. If a man commits adultery with his neighbor's wife, both the man and the woman who have committed adultery must be put to death. Both the man and the woman. So from the get-go, Chris, the Pharisees are not even obeying the law of Moses. They are setting up a trap that they think is a trap to trap the Savior, and their trap is built on a faulty premise because they are violating the Word of God in order to trap the Son of God. They had an unfair standard. And I believe their unfair standard shows, Abby, before we get anywhere, they're coming from a place of bias. They're coming from a place of, we need to trap this Nazarene teacher, we need to discredit him, we need to disqualify him because what he's saying is challenging our power, it's challenging our position, and Lynette, that's not okay with me, so we'll go ahead and fudge a little bit on how we apply the rule of God so we can set up this trap. Let me give you your second blank this morning. They set up an unfair standard. Secondly, they created an either-or scenario, or scenario, depending on which way you like it. They created an either-or scenario. They created an either-or scenario. Let's look, let's pick it up at the end of three and take it all the way to six. They put her, the woman caught in adultery, in front of the crowd. Teacher, they said to Jesus, this woman was caught in the act of adultery. The law of Moses says we should stone her. What do you say? Stop. There is a super important point here that I don't want you to miss. What they have set up is a very shrewd trap because what they're trying to do is, right, they're trying to say either stone her or not stone her, right? You see that in the way they formed the question? Teacher, this woman was caught in the act of adultery. The law of Moses says we should stone her. What do you say? They're trying to force Jesus to make a choice between stone her or not stone her. The problem is Jesus can't make either choice. Let me show you why. I already read for you in Leviticus chapter 20 verse 10, If a man commits adultery with his neighbor's wife, both the man and the woman have committed adultery and therefore must be put to death. So, Diane, if he chooses not to stone this woman, he will violate the law of Moses. You see that? They've set up an either-or scenario, and if he goes this way and he goes, you know what, we should forgive her, they can accuse him of violating the law of Moses. The problem is if he goes, okay, Doug, she's definitely guilty, let's stone her, he will violate the law of the Romans. If you look in John chapter 18 verse 31, you see only the Romans are permitted to execute someone. Remember the Pharisees are speaking the Pontius Pilate. They want Jesus to be crucified, but they're not allowed to because under Roman law only Romans can carry out capital punishment. So, Jonathan, they think, at this moment in the story, they think, Lynette, we figured it out, he's got to choose one of these two options, and we've got him pinned. He either has to break the law of Moses, which we know today would disqualify him from his Messiahship, it would definitely discredit him in the temple, his ministry would be over, or, Lynette, he'll break the law of the Romans, we'll send him to jail, he's out of the way, he's no longer teaching, and he's not a problem. Whichever choice he chooses, he's going to break a law. And they're trying to say, you're either going to break the law of Moses, or you're going to break the law of the Romans. The problem is, again, like I said, this is really set up on an unfair scenario because only half of our adulterous couple is being brought in here. So they're trying to trap him between the law of Moses and the law of the Romans. And I love, look at the last thing he says down here. They were trying to trap him into saying something they could use against him. Either law breaking would be fine. Just give me something to discredit this joker so we can get him out of here. But, Jesus stooped down and wrote in the dust with his finger. Jesus stooped down, this is one of the most poignant and discussed issues of what goes on in Jesus' ministry. Judy, to the onlooker, you're like, what? It doesn't really make a lot of sense. Jesus takes, in the theater community you call it a beat. Jesus takes a beat. He doesn't respond. He doesn't immediately react to the accusations that are being made. They're putting him in a trap going law of Moses, law of the Romans. And Jesus just takes a beat. He just takes a stop. And he stoops down, and he starts writing in the dust. Now, what did Jesus write in the dust? Scripture does not say, so to make any sort of extrapolation or guess as to what Jesus said would be anti-scriptural, or at least at the very least outside of scriptural. But, Miss Kathy, there is a very beautiful symbolism here of Jesus writing in the dust specifically with his finger. Can anyone think of another time in Scripture where God himself writes with his finger? Yes. Let me read it for you. Exodus chapter 31, verse 18. When the Lord finished speaking with Moses on Mount Sinai, he gave him the two stone tablets inscribed with the terms of the covenant written by the finger of God. What I find beautiful about this is, Miss Diane, here they are trying to trap him between the law and the law. And he's going, wait a minute, I wrote the law. Does anybody remember the first The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe movie when the Ice Queen is trying to tell Aslan that because this boy did this thing wrong that she's owed? My favorite part of the whole movie is the lion looks up and yells at her, don't quote the law to me, witch, I was there when it was written. I mean, the whole theater just went, ooh. To me, I thought of that movie moment, I think in lots of movie moments. I thought in the movie moment when I see this, here the Pharisees are, Judy, they have concocted this incredibly elaborate trap to trap the Son of God between the law of Moses and the law of the Romans. And in the midst of it, Dan, he takes a beat and symbolically in the house of God reminds them, I wrote this law. This law is of my writing. And he writes with his finger. Now, what he wrote, there have been people who have tried to extrapolate it. I think that's just an extra biblical guess. It's fun to talk about, but scripture doesn't say. But what I find amazing is it's the only other time in scripture where God writes with the very finger of God. He wrote the law when he handed it to Moses, and here now he's writing, or some have said he was doodling. Some have said he was just ignoring them for a minute just to be spiteful. I don't really see that in the rest of Jesus' character. Like, I'm going to heal you, but only partly. Like, I don't see Jesus as a spiteful Savior. But I find it amazing that you're trying to trap him between law and law, and here he is symbolically writing the law in the temple with his finger. Here's your next blank. Unfair standard, they create an either-or scenario. Next blank. That's okay. Jesus saw the third option. They create the either-or scenario, but Jesus saw the third option. Jesus saw the third option. Let's keep reading our text. Go back to verse 7. John, chapter 8, now verses 7 and 8. They kept demanding an answer. Stop. They're pushy, right? I'm sure no one in this room is or ever knows somebody who's overly religious and pushy, right? Those two things never go together, I'm sure. But here in ancient times when Jesus lived, religious people were pushy. And they're pushing him, Sean, because they still believe they have the upper hand. That's what's really funny about this story is they still believe they have the upper hand. Doug, they think they've got him between the proverbial rock and a hard place. They keep pushing him for an answer. So he stood up and he said, all right. Let the one who has never sinned throw the first stone. And then he stooped down and wrote in the dust a second time, symbolically like the second tablet. Let the one who has never sinned cast the first stone. First, obviously, Jesus took the time out. Jesus did not allow their disruption, did not allow their interruption of his teaching to drive the first stone. He was pushing to drive him emotionally. Melissa, have you ever been in a situation where you're in the middle of something, you're doing it, you're focused, and out of left field here comes something that completely derails you, and you've ever responded angrily? I've done that. You know, I'm focused, I'm on it, I'm on point, and boom, something blindsides me. And my first reaction is not the godly, oh, nice to see you today. No, my first reaction is the right-handed fellowships right here, bro. That's my worldly, fleshly reaction. Jesus does not allow the heightened emotion of the Pharisees to, oh, you heard my New Jersey right there, the Pharisees, he doesn't allow them to push him. He controls the tempo of this conversation. He gives himself another time out. But third, and here's where, you know, one of the questions in this morning's Wired Word is, how do you respond to people who are clearly making ungodly choices? How do you respond to them in a godly manner? And I said, I can't answer that question right now because it would kill this point in my sermon. Here it is. I believe that Jesus' third option is the option you and I should choose today when dealing with religious judgmentalism. Jesus saw with the eyes of compassion. Matthew chapter 9 verse 36, when he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them because they were confused and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. Jesus had compassion on the people of Jerusalem specifically because that point he's looking at the city of Jerusalem. Jerusalem, oh Jerusalem, you city who kills the prophets. And he had compassion on them because he saw them with sheep without a shepherd. This is my biggest challenge to myself. Jonathan, when I am faced with someone who is either, A, living an ungodly lifestyle because they're not a Christian. Why on God's green earth would we expect people who don't know Jesus to live like those who do? You're setting yourself up to be irritated. You're setting yourself up to be disappointed. If people don't know Jesus, then they live for whatever makes them feel the best. When you know Jesus, you live for what makes him look the best. So when you come up to someone who is an atheist, an agnostic, a Hindu, a Muslim, pick a feature that's not Christianity, there should not be an expectation on your part that their lifestyle should live up to the word of God. It's amazing to me how religious people in this day and today will get frustrated at worldly choices from worldly people. Worldly people will make worldly choices. Hopefully godly people make godly choices. Now, for the person who claims to be a Christian, Amanda, for that friend of yours who claims to know Jesus and want to live, it is absolutely right to go, hey man, what's up with that? Why are you doing that? You know that doesn't honor God. But to go up to a person who does not know God and go, Lynette, you know that God's not happy with what you're doing. It totally comes across as judgmental. You know what? God might not be having what I'm doing, but since I don't believe God exists, I'm good. That's exactly the kind of response you'll get. Go to an atheist, please, go to an atheist and tell them God does not approve of what you're doing. They'll be like, since I don't believe your God exists, I don't care. I approve of what I'm doing. What they set up here was supposed to be a lose-lose scenario, Miss Anne. It was supposed to be a rock and a hard place for Jesus. And in the midst of that, Jesus has eyes that see sheep without a shepherd. Jonathan, what do I think that means? For me, I'll just tell you my personal life, the Lord showed me this verse a long time ago and challenged me to see people as sheep without a shepherd. What that means for me and what I hope it could mean for you is seeing someone not just in the physical state of their life, but understanding the physical state of their life is but a mere byproduct of the spiritual state of their heart. If they don't know Jesus, they're not going to make decisions that please him. They don't have a relationship with God. If they don't read his word, if they're not filled with his Holy Spirit, they'll never get to the point of making decisions that reflect these decisions up here. So when you see someone as sheep without a shepherd, you should look at their spiritual nature first and use that as the lens to understand the physical choices of their life. My friends who are gay atheists do not make choices that line up with the Word of God. Why? Not because they're gay, because they're an atheist. If they don't have a relationship with God, they have no respect or desire to study his word, therefore it doesn't transform them, therefore pick a sin that comes after that. Seeing people as sheep without a shepherd means recognizing the spiritual state of their heart drives the physical state of their life. And we should be more concerned about the former than the latter because the state of your soul exists for eternity when the state of your life exists for your humanity. We should be more concerned about the soul of a person than the choices of their life because if their soul gets right with God, their life choices will change. It happened to me. I believe, hi, I'm Bill. I used to be a sinner. I'm still a sinner, but Jesus forgave me. If anybody could say that one sentence, and the other thing I love about what Jesus says here is alright, let the one who has never sinned, Jonathan, he puts the monkey back on their back. They think they've got him, right? Law of Moses, law of the Romans, I've got you fully trapped. Miss Anne, okay, fine. He who has not sinned, throw the first stone. He puts the focus back on the individual. He puts it back. Why don't you look at your heart first? Someone in the wide word this morning mentioned, how about you look in your own closet before going through someone else's? Truth. That's good. That's not even mine. I can't even claim that as my own. But amen to that. That's a good statement. How about you look to your own life, look inside your own heart, look inside your own soul before you take up that religious mantle that gives you the right to judge other people? That's the third option. See people as sheep without a shepherd. Here's point four. Jesus saw the third option. Wisdom overcame misguided passion. Wisdom overcame misguided passion. Wisdom overcame misguided passion. Let's pick it back up. Let's look at verse nine of our text this morning. When the accusers highlight, underline, circle, long press, do something, that word is huge for what's coming up. When the accusers heard this, they slipped away one by one, beginning with the oldest, until only Jesus is left in the middle of the crowd with the woman. Notice also circle, long press, underline, and color, the word crowd. In the movie, Dan, it's only Jesus and the woman left. That's actually not textually accurate. Jesus was still teaching a group of people when these religious people came in and busted in. Those are the accusers. The audience of people that was listening to Jesus teaching the temple, they're watching all of this play out. So it's not Jesus left alone with the woman in the temple. It's Jesus with the woman and the crowd he was initially teaching. So the accusers heard this. They slipped away one by one, beginning with the oldest. Why do the oldest go first? Because symbolically, Sean, wisdom is attained with age. Symbolically, the older you are, the wiser you're supposed to be. I'll say it that way. The older you are, the wiser you're supposed to be. I'm sure we all have someone in our life who challenges that statistic. Either someone who is much older than you, who makes childish choices, or someone who's younger than you, who just really seems to have a good head on their shoulders making wise choices. I'm not saying that young people can't be wise and old people are automatically wise, but as a general rule, Miss Anne, you've lived more life than I have. You've experienced more things than I have. You've lived longer as a married woman. You've had more experience as a parent, as a voter, as a citizen, as a Christian. I would be stupid not to listen to the wisdom of those who are older than me. Because no matter how much you know about theology and the Bible, it's faith lived out in the real world. That's what grows wisdom. I can learn everything about what the Bible teaches about Jesus and not know a thing about how to handle that knowledge in crisis. Talk to somebody who's older than you. Take out someone who's older than you. Take them out to lunch and just let them talk to you about what faith was like. Because I guarantee you this, and I love the days. I'm going to take a short rabbit show here. There are days where I get to go to work with Dan and we deliver cabinets. Number one, his cabinetry is legit. Why do I know that? Because it's freaking heavy. And so it's legit because it's heavy. But there are days where we're driving out to a location and we may have 45 minutes to an hour in the van to get from his shop to the location we need to get to to deliver. I love those conversations because, number one, I have a captive audience. He's stuck either ignoring me, which is super uncomfortable, for an hour to ignore someone who's sitting next to you, or I get to have a conversation with somebody who's seen way more of life than I have. You know, someone who's been through things that I have yet to go through. You know, Dan and Judy have grandchildren almost as old as I am. There's wisdom in that. There's things they've lived through that I haven't experienced yet. You know, I can listen to Ms. Kathy talk to me about how she went through the teenage years with her son. I love listening to Ben describe that in comparison to Kathy describe that because it's amazing. But they've lived a life that I've not lived yet. They've put teenagers into college. Abby's about to enter the college age. My kids haven't even made it to second grade yet. There's wisdom in age. That's why the older people go first. Beginning with the oldest, supposedly the wiser, until only Jesus is left in the middle of the crowd. Why does it take a long period of time? Because let's be honest, have you ever been so passionate about something that you don't think clearly? You've ever been so wrapped up in something? You've been so inundated, so focused, so type A, locked into something that you can't even consider other options. It's like you've got blinders on and all you see is what you're focused on, and the rest of the world just seems to fade away. This is not the moment to start elbowing people. People have blinders on. Chris, we can be so passionate about Jesus that we forget about ministry. We can be so passionate about righteousness that we forget about compassion. It took time for Jesus' words to penetrate through that passion. That's why I called it misguided passion. I have no problem with being passionate about my relationship with God. But when that passion turns into religious judgment, you're the one who needs to repent, not the person you're yelling at. Right? Just tweet that one. That was good stuff. Wisdom overcame misguided passion, and it took a little bit, beginning with the oldest. Why? Because hopefully the older people were actually considering things as they're being passionate. Young people, we just commit to something and we just go. Young people are like, I'm on it, let's go! And they don't really think it all the way through. They don't necessarily think about all the ramifications that might happen. How many people I might hurt or offend or upset? Young people, we just commit to something and come hell or high water, we're going to get there. And whilst that energy and that passion is good, if it is not tempered, let me read you Proverbs chapter 19, verse 2. Enthusiasm without knowledge is no good. Haste brings mistakes. The translation that I remember as a kid is zeal without wisdom is dangerous. Being zealous for something without also being wise about that something is dangerous. Wisdom overcomes misguided passion. Here's your last blank. Forgiveness did not ignore sin. Forgiveness did not ignore sin. Forgiveness did not ignore sin. Let's look at the last two verses of our text this morning, verses 10 and 11. Then Jesus stood up again and said to the woman, where are your accusers? Stop. That word accusers, like it showed up before, long press, underline, highlight, circle, do something. Because this is where, I mean Jesus just rocks my socks on this one. Jesus is the promised Messiah, the Savior, the Son of God. Can he violate the law of Moses? No, not and be a sinless sacrifice. Absolutely right. Jesus must fulfill the law of Moses to a T. So Miss Kathy, when we opened it, we looked at the law. The law says if a man and a woman are caught in adultery, stone them, kill them. Have a whole lot less adultery if we still had laws like that. Just saying. If you're caught in adultery, so just follow this with me. Does this woman, according to the law of Moses, deserve death? Yes. So in order for Jesus to offer her forgiveness without violating the law of Moses, it's a very precarious situation. The Pharisees did lay up a really good trap. But I want you to see here what's so beautiful about what Jesus does. Deuteronomy chapter 17 verse 6. But never put a person to death on the testimony of only one witness. There must always be two or three witnesses. So Jesus does not violate the law of Moses because the witnesses to the crime have left the building. Jesus offers forgiveness in the midst of the law because the accusers, the witnesses to the crime are gone. And Jesus can't violate the law. You can't kill someone without the presence of multiple witnesses to attest to the crime. So Jesus offers forgiveness in the midst of the law without violating the law of Moses, without violating the law of the Romans. And here we have quite possibly one of the most famous lines of Jesus. Where are your accusers? Notice, didn't even one. Didn't even one. No one was left to accuse her of being caught in adultery. No. And Jesus says, neither do I. Go and sin no more. Anybody knows the Rebecca St. James song by that thing title? She made this line super famous. Go and sin no more. A more literal translation is go and leave your life of sin. That's harsh. Go and leave your life of sin. The first thing I want you to understand is Jesus does not violate the law of Moses because there are no witnesses left and you can't kill someone according to the law without those witnesses. So forgiveness happens within the law. But here's the real kicker. Forgiveness in Jesus is not authorization for sin. Jesus dying on a cross does not give you a Holy Spirit credit card that makes it acceptable to continue to sin and just charge it and charge it and charge it. Jesus was clear. I forgive you, but Jonathan, stop sinning. He doesn't let her off the hook for the sin that started the story. He looks her right in the face and says, I know. Now stop. He didn't let her off the hook for the sin even though she was forgiven. Even though he said, neither do I. Hold it against you. Neither do I accuse you. Chris, you can be forgiven of your sins, but that doesn't mean you get to go back to the same slop day after day after day. Forgiveness means go and stop doing it. Jesus does not let the woman off the hook for her sin. In the midst of the forgiveness within the law, he clearly says, don't do it anymore. I will forgive you. Now go and do something else. She didn't skate by with her sin being OK. This is one of the biggest problems I have with the way religiosity comes across in contemporary Christianity. It's like we have two fields. We have the legalist field over here that has all these laws and is very judgmental and everything is a sin. And if you're in sin, you're backsliding and Jesus forgave you, so you should never do anything anymore. You should live by all my laws and woohoo, I can't live there. So then we come over here and there's liberalism where God loves you so much your sin is OK. OK? No. God loves you so much your sin is OK does not match the Bible, does not match what Jesus said. Sin is forgiven, but holiness is expected. Jesus doesn't go, OK, see you next adultery. That's not what he said. He doesn't go, Doug, it's OK, you're forgiven. I'll just catch up with you the next time. It's almost like the idea of I'll just keep on sinning and keep on asking. At a certain point, Jesus is going to look you in the face and go, Dan, stop living your life of sin. Just as he said to this woman, the forgiveness of Jesus was never meant to be considered a credit card so you can continue sinning and feel good about it. What he says to this woman is, I forgive you, now go and stop living your life of sin. Now, a caveat thought about not sinning anymore. What is the primary motivation that should drive us not to sin? Well, for some, it's the fear of going to hell. Hell is a real place. I'll be honest, it's going to suck. I don't want to go there. I don't want any of you to go there. But there is something more motivating about stopping a life of sin than the fear of hell and brimstone. In my opinion, that is the joy and acceptance that one feels when you fully come to grips with the idea of how much Jesus loves you. When you are driven from a point of love, it is easy to stop doing those things you used to do. When you are driven from a point of closeness with God, when you open your Bible in the morning and you can feel his presence with you, hopefully you don't forget his presence is with you the rest of the day too. It's not like you can go, oh, okay, God, I'm done with my Bible time here. I'm going to go ahead and hang my Christianity over here. I'm going to go do some sin, and then I'll come back tomorrow morning and I'll put it on and we'll be good, right? And we'll get back in the Bible together. No. When you truly live in the knowledge and the presence of Jesus, sin starts to become a little repulsive. Because whatever sin you get in, you drag Jesus through. You can't have God with you only when you want. It's not a clap off, okay, no more Holy Spirit. Oh, I need a job. Clap on, okay, God, let me talk to you again. Oops, I'm going to the movies. Clap off. Oops, I'm going to a party. You can't do that. It's either God is with you or he isn't. And if he's with you all the time, then he's with you with every sin you get into as well. That's why he said to this woman, go and leave your life of sin. Accepting the forgiveness in Christ is also accepting the responsibility to learn to live in a way that pleases him. To learn to live in a way that says, God, you know, I was telling somebody this morning, I asked myself one question. God, are you pleased with what I'm doing right now? Whatever it is, I don't care if it's grocery shopping. God, are you pleased with what I'm doing right now? Is that life still where you want it to be? Is my prayer life where you want it to be? Is the way I speak to my children when they do something that super aggravates me still honoring you? A lot of tough questions can be had by just saying, God, are you pleased with what I'm doing right now?