This morning we are going to continue our Hall of Heroes series. If you've not been here for all of Hall of Heroes, let me give you a brief explanation. Every summer I try my best to give you an introduction to some biblical characters from more of a narrative base. The Bible has lots of stories, and in those stories are real life people who face real life situations and real life challenges. And I thought it was super important to come up with a way to introduce you to some of these characters. Because not everybody grew up in church. I did. I used to have a pastor who used to tell a story. When I was growing up I had a drug problem. My parents drugged me to church every time it was open. That's a really, really shameless pastor joke. You can just, oh. In fact, I may just edit that out of the recording. But I recognize, here's the truth, I recognize in today's religious culture not everyone sitting in this room grew up in church. Not everybody sitting in this room is super familiar with all the Bible characters that I grew up learning in Sunday school. Some of them very, very minute, minuscule characters. And some of them, the only thing people know of David is he fought a guy named Goliath. So every summer we do Hall of Heroes. And I try to bring you some stories of some real life people facing real life challenges. Now this morning we are going to continue looking at a man named Solomon. Solomon is king of Israel at the moment in this story. Who was the first king? Anybody remember? Saul. Saul, that's right. Who came after him? David. That's right. And who came after David? Solomon. Solomon is known as the wise king. We looked at that this past week. If you'll notice on the back of your bulletin, the title of this morning's message is entitled Solomon, the baby dilemma. Solomon, the baby dilemma. And this is not the same as the baby dilemma when you wake up and realize you're pregnant. That was Bathsheba a couple weeks ago. It's not that baby dilemma, it's different. That was David and Bathsheba a few weeks ago. Now this morning if you have your Bibles with you, I want to invite you to turn or click with me to 1 Kings chapter 3. We're going to be in verse 16. First Kings chapter 3 verse 6, or starting, wait no, don't go there yet. Go to the, yeah just stay right there. Chapter 3, you're right. 17 to 28. Before we get into the text though, I want to give you a little, a sort of framework. Many of you know or remember we had a previous president in the United States named Ronald Reagan. Well, a little known story that most people don't know, before Ronald Reagan became the popular actor and then politician, he had a grandmother. And on one fateful weekend, his grandmother turned to him and said, Ronald, we should get you some new shoes. And so Ronald and his grandmother go to the local cobbler, because that's what you did back then. In fact, I went to a cobbler when I was a kid, so they're not that old, and went to get a pair of shoes made. Not just bought off a rack. Grandma went to the cobbler to get a pair of shoes made for Ronald Reagan. And as Ronald Reagan and his grandmother enter the cobbler shop, they're looking, they're picking out the color, they're measuring his foot for size. And then Terry, there's one final variable that the soon to be president of the United States had to decide. And it's the single quintessential question for men's dress shoes. No, not laces or no laces. That's the question. Toes, round or square. All of men's dress shoes fall into two categories. There's either the round, and of course, my dress shoes are flip flops, but this is Florida. Most of the time, when you dress up, men's dress shoes come in two main styles. They have the rounded toes, and they have the square toes. And Ronald couldn't decide. And he goes, you know what? It's okay. Before I make the toes for your shoes, I'll ask you in a couple days. And so Ronald and his grandmother leave. Well, a few days go by, and the cobbler passes Ronald out, you know, walking around the street, because apparently that's what you did then when you went to a cobbler's who walked down the street. And he said, Mr. Reagan, I'm preparing to finish your shoes. Have you decided whether you want round toes or square toes? And Ronald goes, I just don't know. And the cobbler goes, okay, I've got a couple more days. I'll ask you one more time. So finally, he calls Ronald at home and says, Ronald, I'm finishing your shoes. You got to make a choice. And he still couldn't make a decision. So the cobbler goes, okay, I'll take care of it. Hang up the phone. The next day, he gets the phone call. He and his grandmother go in. Ronald tries on the shoes, and they're great. And he looks down, and his left foot is square and his right foot is round. And the cobbler looked at Mr. Reagan and says, Ronald, don't ever let anybody make decisions for you. The second example I want to give you is in World War II, there was a man named Winston Churchill, arguably one of the best politicians in England of the century, had a very difficult decision to make. If any of you are history buffs, you may know what the Enigma machine is in World War II, the code breaking machine that we had to break the code of. In fact, there was a movie just made about it recently about the team that broke the Enigma machine. Well, the Enigma machine was basically Nazi Germany's encryption. And they were sending these encrypted messages to the rest of their battle group, and we couldn't break it and we couldn't figure it out. And finally, they did it. The British, those smart guys, finally broke the Enigma machine. And Winston Churchill found out in advance that the Nazis were going to bomb a small town in eastern Britain. And now Mr. Churchill has a decision. Miss Josephine, I have the advance warning. I can go evacuate the town. But guess what's going to happen if I evacuate the town? The enemy's going to know that I broke their code. And I will have sacrificed the knowledge to save the small town and might have lost the war. And Winston Churchill was faced with a difficult decision, Dan, of balancing a few hundred lives versus how many lives would be lost over the course of the war if they used this ability to break the Nazi code without them knowing about it. I will leave it up to you after church to look up what he decided. What I want to prove to you is the text we're going to look at today, decisions are difficult. The decision that Mr. Reagan faced was shoes. Not difficult, and yet he struggled with it. The decision that Mr. Churchill faced was literally life and death. And really, to be fair to Winston Churchill, it didn't really matter what decided. Somebody was going to die because it's war. In our story today, we are also faced with a life and death situation. This is probably one of the most famous stories from the life of King Solomon, and it's what I'm calling the baby dilemma this morning. So do me a favor, turn with me to 1 Kings chapter 3. I have it for you here on the screen in the New Living Translation, and we're going to read 17 to 28. Let's take a look at what it says. 1 Kings chapter 3, starting in verse 17. Sometime later, as in later from what we talked about last week, we'll get to that. Sometime later, two prostitutes came to see the king to have an argument settled. Please, my lord, one of them begged, this woman and I live in the same house. I gave birth to a baby while she was with me in the house. Three days later, this woman also had a baby. We were alone, there were only two of us in the house, but her baby died during the night when she rolled over on it. Then she got up in the night and took my son from me, from beside me while I was asleep. She laid her dead child in my arms and took mine to sleep beside her. In the morning, when I tried to nurse my son, he was dead. But when I looked more closely in the morning light, I saw it wasn't my son at all. Then the other woman interrupted. It certainly was your son. Living child is mine. No, the first woman said, the living child is mine and the dead one is yours. And so they argued back and forth before the king. But the king said, let's get the facts straight. Both of you claim the living child is yours and each says the dead one belongs to the other. All right, bring me a sword. So a sword was brought to the king. Then he said, cut the living child in two and give half to one woman and half to the other. Then the woman who was the real mother of the living child and who loved him very much cried out, no, no, my lord, give her the child. Please don't kill him. But the other woman said, all right, he'll be neither yours nor mine. Divide him between us. Yeah. Then the king said, do not kill the child, but give him to the woman who wants him to live for she is his mother. When all Israel heard the king's decision, the people were in awe of the king, for they saw the wisdom of God had given him for rendering justice. Like I said, this is perhaps one of the most famous stories from the life of King Solomon, this baby drama, this baby dilemma. So I want to give you your first blank in your bulletin and then I want to go back through this text and sort of eat it up a little bit because I think there are some very applicable realities for tough decisions today. So your first blank this morning is this. It was Solomon's job to judge. It was Solomon's job to judge. Now this is obviously a direct continuation of what we talked about last week. Last week we looked at Solomon asking the Lord for wisdom and specifically, does anybody remember what kind of wisdom he asked for? He asked for the wisdom to govern God's people. That's super important because that lays the foundation for what we talk about this week. He asked for the wisdom to govern God's people. And then Miss Diane, here we have the very next section of the same chapter, an example of Solomon using godly wisdom to judge God's people. Take a look at verses, oh I know, 16 through 18. I know. A story about dead baby, nobody likes it. All right. He's getting all flustered. He's like this is too personal. First Kings chapter 3, take a look at this. Some time later two prostitutes came to the king to have an argument settled. Why do they come to the king? Because in this time and this day the king is, he is the supreme court. He is the highest authority in his land. If all other adjudication fails, every citizen has the right to appeal to the king. In fact in the New Testament we see that Paul does this. And he says I appeal to Caesar. Why? Because I'm a Roman. I have the right to appeal to my sovereign, to my king, to have my decision dealt with. It was Solomon's job, just like it was Saul's job, just like it was David's job. It was Solomon's job to lead his people, but Dan also to govern and adjudicate disagreements and cases between his subjects. So these two women come to him and then the story begins to lay out. First both women live in the same home. Second the first woman has a baby. Now keep in mind these women are not named. And if I go back and forth all morning and just say woman, woman, woman, woman, woman, it's going to get a little confusing. So we're going to go ahead and name them for the purpose of this teaching. Instead of woman A and woman B, the first woman is going to be named Anne and the second woman is going to be named Becky. Just so we can keep it straight. Because as I was reading it and as I was studying it I was like okay which woman said what again? And you can get a little mixed up. So the first woman who speaks, please my lord, one of the best, call her Anne. So Anne says this woman and I live in the same house. I gave birth to a baby while she was with me in the house and three days later Becky had a baby too. So from the get go, look at the very last one, we were alone. There are only two of us in the house. There are no witnesses to this event. Which is one of the main reasons why Lynette, it probably got kicked all the way up to the higher court of appeals because nobody wanted to pass judgment when there's no corroborating evidence. There's no witnesses, there's nobody else who can come forward and be like yes this went down this way, this went down this way. All you have is literally a she said she said problem. Well sure, yeah I mean we'll just go ahead and call Horatio and CSI Miami and we'll get a DNA test and you know. And think about it this way, you can't even go off of the way the babies look because they're all from the same hereditary line. They're all Jews. They're all of the same heredity and they're living in the same generation. So it's not like, I mean yes I would argue even when I held my son for the first time in the hospital, I knew his face because I know my own face and I know my wife's. Or if he was in a room full of other babies, now when Micah was born he was put right into the NICU by himself. So I never really saw him next to a bunch of other babies. I never had to go oh which one, you know like that typical movie moment where the dad who wasn't there with the child is looking through the window going which one's my baby. Like that never happened to me. They literally brought me the baby, slapped a thing on my wrist and said he cannot leave your side and drug me all around the NICU with Micah. Because when Micah was born he had a hard time breathing. We don't get any of those modern advances that we have today. Literally all we have is the king trying to solve a she said she said problem with two women with conflicting stories. No evidence. Now let me give you your second blank and I'll explain why this is so difficult. Here's your second blank. The emotions were pretty high. The emotions were high. Take a look at verse 19 and the beginning 19 through 21a. So 1920 and the beginning of 21. Now here we not only have Anne and Becky who are roommates living together. They both just had babies. There are no baby daddies in this story. Did you notice that? There are no men mentioned in this story. Well, and I know I should probably just say this. Everyone's going to get hung up on the idea that these guys are prostitutes right? It doesn't really mean the same things it means for us. The word prostitute in ancient Hebrew also could stand for a woman who had no way to make means for herself other than to use her body as a tool. She had no man taking care of her i.e. her husband died. Maybe she didn't have any other male children. There was no one to care for her estate because keep in mind we're like 957 BC women don't own property in ancient Israel. They had to be cared for. Take as the New Testament version of orphans and widows. The only way that these women could make money was using their body. That's also why they live together because they had no one else to care for them. So I don't want you to think that they're just you know like career street walkers but they could have just been a woman who fell into a situation where that's the only way she could continue to make means for herself and then they both happen to be pregnant at the same time. So then we find out one of the babies dies in the middle of the night. This is incredibly sad and I don't want to try to make light or make humor of this at all. This is not a funny moment. One of the reasons that this particular story is so vital to the story of Solomon is there are things that happen in life that are not funny, that are not fun, that are not humorous, that we really need God's wisdom to deal with. And that's why I believe the writer of Kings left us this story as the example of Solomon's wisdom because you got to know when you're fighting for somebody's baby this is a very emotional moment. This is a big deal. If you try to take my children from me you will find out how emotional I can be. Just think about that for a moment. Somebody is stealing somebody's baby. Just, I mean can you just feel that? Those of you who are parents when you are holding your baby and somebody walks up and goes no that's really my... Like you better pray to God I'm not carrying my gun the moment you try to take my baby because we are going to have major issues and then you are going to need major surgery. But that is exactly what's happening. Somebody is stealing someone else's baby and they've gone through the court system. Niko, they've gone through all of the legal recourse they can and the final court of appeal is the king himself. And now we find out one of the babies has died during the night when the mom rolled over on the baby. Now I have to say as a parent this is probably one of the things I was most afraid of having children because I sleep hard. I sleep like a rock and I was always afraid to have my children, as much as I want to hold my children I want to cuddle them and it's time for bed. Put you over there, sleep over here. I like built the great wall of china out of pillows between me and the baby so that I wouldn't... I mean we even at one point put the baby in the bassinet in the bed because we could be next to her, next to him, it was actually Micah, I could be next to him but I'd roll over and hit my head on the bassinet and it would hurt and I would wake up and I'd roll back the other way. Melanie actually when we lived in Georgia she worked with a woman that just happened to. It was incredibly heartbreaking. She had sleep apnea so she slept really hard and she did actually roll over and smother her infant in the middle of the night. And it was so heartbreaking. Again I'm not trying to over dramatize it, this is the reality of what we're talking about. One of the babies dies and then the mother of the one who just lost a child figures out that she can get up in the middle of the night and she can swap babies and no one's going to know any better. Number one, there are no witnesses, remember that. The only four people living in this home are Ann, Becky and both the babies. There are no men, there are no external servants, there are no witnesses, they're the only people and currently mommy number one and baby Ann and her baby are asleep. The only person awake in the house is the mom who's actually swapping out the baby. So there are, I mean she's literally total cover of darkness. She goes and lays the dead child in the arms of the sleeping mother so if it's Becky then Becky is bringing the baby to Ann and in the morning she wakes up, she tries to nurse her newborn and she discovers he's dead. One of these two women is vile as vile can be and the other one is the victim. So you guys see that, incredible emotional tension. Here's your next blank. There was no clear answer. There was no clear answer. Let's take a look at 21B and 22. So 21B and 22. When I looked more closely in the morning light, so obviously when the mother rolled over to nurse her baby it was obviously before dawn, before sunlight and I remember several times when I would take care of my kids and I was like and rock and I did a whole thing with my eyes closed. I was awake but I was like in that zombie awake, those of you who had a baby you know that zombie state where you're awake enough to make sure you can properly care for a baby and got like one eye closed to try to rack up extra half minutes of sleep. Yes, been there. That is exactly what happens. Then when the morning, when the sunlight breaks, I.E. when illumination happens, she's got enough light, she stops and she realizes this is not my baby, this is not my son and now Becky chimes in, it certainly was your son, the living baby is mine. Here's the problem and this will have somewhat to do with what translation of the Bible you read. In the NIV Solomon is quoted as referring to giving the baby to the first woman. So if you have a new international version your Bible is going to read give the baby to the first woman, I.E. the first woman who spoke. The problem is that distinction of the first does not exist in the original Hebrew text. The way the story is written in Hebrew, Julie, we don't know who's guilty. It could be Ann, it could be Becky. Now here's my question to you. As we read the text this morning, did you decide who you thought was right and who you thought was wrong? Almost everyone does. So by a show of hands, how many people think Ann, the first woman to talk, is the victim? In English that's mostly how we read it. How many people thought Ann was actually spinning the entire story to steal Becky's baby? Nobody. Interestingly, that distinction is nowhere in the text. You all jumped to the same conclusion because we automatically want to side with the first person who speaks. The first person who told the story, Lynette, we just assumed it was right. But how about Ann realizes her baby is dead and rather than steal someone's baby she concocts the story that she already stole my baby. And so now you owe me that child that's really yours that I'm calling mine that is completely textually accurate to the way this reads. What's interesting in English is, Dan, we all want to side with the first woman who speaks. Why? Because you assumed her story was true. You assumed when the first woman spoke up, yeah, we live alone and I had a baby and then she had a baby and in the middle of the night she took my baby. There's no reason to assume the first woman who spoke is actually telling the truth. But what's interesting, Lynette, is in the NIV that's exactly how it reads. Because the translation team between the NIV decided that which all of you automatically decided in and of yourself. The first woman to speak must be the victim and the second woman to speak must be the perpetrator. But Miss Lena, in the Hebrew that distinction does not exist. And that is one of the keys to understanding this passage is there is no clear answer when both of them give their testimony and they are directly conflicting. There is no reason to assume that Anne or Becky is telling the truth. Both answers are plausible, which is why this made it all the way to the king. Because no one had the wisdom to figure out how do I get, like when one person is telling the truth and the other person is lying and you don't know and there's no evidence, how do I figure this out? And again, keep in mind, Melissa, last week we talked about Solomon got God from God. This story is meant to illustrate that. So then the first woman says, no, no, no, the living child is mine, the dead one is yours and so they argue back and forth. The second woman who I have dubbed Becky for this morning, Lynette, she could absolutely be telling the truth. I know we don't default to that. Abby, we automatically default to the first lady who speaks is telling the truth and the second lady who speaks is obviously the vile, evil woman. But what happens if you just happen to have met the psychopath first woman first and she concocts this whole story because she rolled over on her own baby, she killed her own baby and out of jealousy she wants someone else's baby. I know no one wants to admit that people can be that psycho and cruel. I know, especially nobody elbow anybody, okay? This is not the right moment to start elbowing your neighbor. But what I want you to understand is in the original Hebrew, either one of these women could have been guilty of the crime. Take a look at your next blank this morning. Blank number four. Solomon got to the heart of the matter. Solomon got to the heart of the matter. Solomon got to the heart of the matter. Take a look at verses 23 to 26. 23 to 26. The king said, okay, then let's get the facts straight. Because really, I mean, Lena, that's all he's got to work on is facts. There is no evidence. There is no I'm going to present my case and here's my paternity test. None of that exists. All it is is she said versus she said. So let's get the facts straight. Both of you claim the living child is yours and the dead one belongs to the other one. I know this sounds super repetitious, but it's going to make a whole lot of sense in a moment. We are talking about one living baby and one dead baby and we are arguing over who the living baby belongs to and who gets stuck with the dead baby. Everybody's really clear on that because that's about to make a whole lot of sense. All right. Bring me a sword. I have to say, if I was a fly on the wall in the moment that Solomon said this, I'd be going, is that what you meant? Like, I think I, like, maybe I'll just have some hummus in my ear. Is that really what you meant? You want a sword? It's a baby. Like just think about how funny that must have seemed to the servant who actually had to go get the weapon. Like, wait a minute, we're talking about babies. You know what we need? We need a sword. How can we solve this? Don't get me my grandpa with cyber. We'll fix the problem right now. Like you got to, just sometimes you got to stop in the midst of difficulty and find the humor in this. Solomon is adjudicating a case of a dead infant and he asks for a weapon. And so apparently somebody brings it to him. A sword was brought to the king and then he says this, cut the living child in two, half to one and half to the other. And now he's lost it. We're like, okay, we already have one dead baby. Let's go ahead and make a second dead baby. Give me the next slide. Then the woman who was the real mother of the living child who loved him very much cried out, oh no, give her the child, but don't kill him. Here is why Solomon's wisdom is so amazingly significant. It doesn't really matter whether it was Anne or whether it was Becky who's lying. Solomon knows there's one thing that differentiates them. One of these two mothers has already experienced the loss of her baby. The other has not. That's the only thing that tells the two of them apart. Because it doesn't really matter which one rolled over and killed the baby. It was that mother, the one whose baby is dead, is the one who woke up in the middle of the night and swapped him out. Now whether the actual swapping happened or whether the swapping is the story doesn't really matter. Because if the swapping is the story, let's say Anne is the bad guy. That means she rolled over, she found her dead baby, and she fought long and hard about how to come up with a scheme to steal Becky's baby. Now let's say Anne is the victim and Becky's the bad guy. That means Becky did actually get up in the middle of the night, notice that her baby was gone, and swap him out. Either way, one mother has already experienced the emotional blow of losing her child. The other has not. That's what Solomon gets at. He knows that one of these two women has already experienced this crushing emotional blow. And one of them hasn't. And by offering up the child's life, he discovers which mother is not heartbroken. And that's how he tells them apart. Now what's interesting is, regardless of whether it's Anne or it's Becky who responds with this, no, no, no, no, give her the child, please don't kill him. Notice she's sacrificing her child anyway. The only way to cause him to live is to give up and lose the case. What are they in front of the king for in the first place? She wants her baby. It doesn't matter which mother it is, one of the mothers wants to go home with the living baby. The actual biological mother of the living child chooses to sacrifice her motherly rights to save her baby. Because she does not want to experience the emotional loss which the other mother already has. And look at this, then he will be neither yours nor mine, divided between us. Why? Because that woman's angry. That woman's heartbroken. And that woman knows what it feels like to lose a child, which is why she's all more ready to watch someone else experience the same pain she's already gone through. In a moment where there was no clear evidence, in a moment where there was no supporting factors, through godly wisdom Solomon knew, you can't ignore the heart. As I was preparing for this, I thought about those times when I was in middle school and it was in the middle of the summer and my uncle worked for the phone company. Sometimes he had these really odd hours. We would sit up in the afternoon from 3 o'clock to 5 o'clock before my aunt would come home and we would watch Matlock. That's what we did every afternoon. We would get up, we would do all our chores, mow the lawn, pine straw the berm, do whatever we had to do, pull the weeds. But I tell you what, we'd get lunch and we'd go into the living room and from 3 o'clock to 5 o'clock me and my uncle would watch Matlock. And about every three episodes, and I'm sure you're familiar with this if you watch any sort of crime dramas, law and order, what have you, there's always that episode where the person's sitting there in the witness box and the prosecutor's just nailing him and nailing him and nailing him and all of a sudden this burst of emotion and you realize, oh, can I take that back, your honor? That's this moment. This is the Matlock moment where the king realizes, wait a minute, I know how to tell these women apart. One of them is heartbroken and viciously angry. Angry enough to steal a baby. That's not like I stubbed my toe angry. Miss Josephine, that's a whole nother level of crazy. Like I am angry enough to steal your baby. That's angry. And the other woman just wants the safety of her child. And by using godly wisdom, he gets it exactly that. Here's your last blank. Solomon's blessing served God's plan. Solomon's blessing served God's plan. Now you remember I told you that what we talked about last week is the entire foundation for this week. Last week we saw Solomon praying to God. God says, Solomon, ask me for whatever you want. Here's a blank check to be blessed in your life. What can I do for you today? Hoof, we need another movie reference for those of you who are paying attention. And Solomon says, Lord, how can I govern your people well? Give me the wisdom to know the difference between right and wrong. And here in the following verses we have a great example of him using that exact godly wisdom. Melissa, show me the end of our text please. Then the king said, do not kill the child, but give him to the woman who wants him to live for she is his mother. When all Israel heard the king's decision, the people were in awe of the king, for they saw, look at that, they saw the wisdom God had given him for rendering justice. If you go back and look at verses 9 through 11 of this same chapter, that is exactly what Solomon asked for. He didn't ask for money, he didn't ask for women, he didn't ask for gold, jewels, he asked for wisdom to distribute justice because he knew that was God's plan for him in the position of being king. And here we have a great example that the people of God didn't just respond to Solomon as an awesome king. Jonathan, the people of God recognized God's call and God's spirit and God's moving through God's man and God's position. And this is where it comes full circle. Solomon wanted to serve God, asked to be blessed with the skills to do what God had called him to do. And here we see God's people responding to the move of God through Solomon. This story is probably mistaught so often because we get caught up on focusing on Anne and Becky. The real truth of the story is Solomon is the star of this entire chapter. Whilst Anne and Becky have a huge part to play and it's a very emotional story. Dan, the problem that the two mothers represent, the entire baby dilemma, is really to teach us one big thing. How much God had blessed Solomon's wisdom. And you see that because in the beginning of the chapter he asks for God's wisdom in order to distribute justice and lead God's people. And here in the closing verses of that same chapter, for they, meaning the people of Israel, saw the wisdom God had given him for rendering justice. When you do what God has called you to do, you automatically point people to God, not yourself. When you do what you want to do, sometimes you point people to yourself, sometimes you just mess up. I'm trying to be honest. Sometimes when you try to make yourself look good you just fall flat on your face. Or maybe that's just me. I'm just saying, maybe that's just me. So how do we bring this to today? Obviously, or hopefully, let me say hopefully, none of us are faced with a situation that Solomon had to deal with where we actually have to pass judgment over whose baby belongs to who. We live in a country that's governed by a court system. We have a whole lot of legal recourse. But we do eventually have courses that make it up to cases that make it all the way up to the Supreme Court that require the highest level of judicial determination. I hope and pray that God speaks to them when they make those decisions because that's the highest authority. But as believers, we have a higher authority than the Supreme Court. We still have a king who ultimately distributes godly justice through godly wisdom because Jesus is our king. Now, is Solomon a type or an example of Jesus' just ruling in this? Yes he is. Jesus is the promised king of the Jewish people. When Jesus returns, those of you who were here for end of days, when Jesus returns he will be the king of the Jews. And he will rule with all of God's wisdom and all of God's mercy and all of God's justice. Yes, we will have that king. But today, Solomon is the star of this chapter. The women present the problem, but Solomon is ultimately the star for God using him to present the solution. The question that I have for you today, what I want you to take away from this, is how is God working in your life when you are faced with difficult decisions? Hopefully you're not as difficult as the one Solomon faced here. Be honest, we all face trying circumstances, right? We all face difficulty, we all face trial, we all face the proverbial stuck between a rock and a hard place. For some of us it may be taking our faith into work with us. For some of us it may be dealing with our family, dealing with our neighbors, dealing with our friends. If you face those trials and face those circumstances, how often do you just do it by yourself? Dan, I'm just going to go my own way here. And how often do you stop and go, God, what would you have me do? Because if you do the latter, if you stop and ask for God's wisdom and God's instruction to help you solve the problem that may seem impossible, that may have no clear answer, it's God's wisdom that ultimately trumps all of man's wisdom, hands down. God's wisdom will always trump man's wisdom. Think about Solomon in the middle of the story going, hey, Fred, go give me a sword. Sometimes God's wisdom doesn't make sense in the moment. It's through hindsight when you see it all play out. So don't be afraid to take that step of faith, to take that step out. Miss Diane, something that may not seem to fit with the situation, talking about babies, let's go get weapons, because that totally goes together. Sometimes in order to follow God's leading, you will have to step out into an area that may not make sense at the foreground. It may not make sense in the moment, but once you get a few steps past that moment, all of a sudden, I can tell you for sure, there have been times in my life that God asked me to do something that made absolutely no ever-loving sense. But then when you look back on it, oh, see, God knows way more than we know about the way he's moving in our lives. God's perspective is much greater than ours.