We are going to be continuing the Hall of Heroes Kings of Gold. Kings of Gold, this is what it is. Every year during the summer, I have kind of a tradition. I want to make sure that everybody gets a chance to see the different characters that are in the Bible. So for the last three years, we have done a Hall of Heroes, thank you so much my good sir, we have done a Hall of Heroes series and what it basically is is a series that looks at biographical sketches of people from the Bible. The first Hall of Heroes series was the major leaders from the children of Israel. So we looked at Moses and Joshua and Elijah. Last year's Hall of Heroes was women of the Bible and we looked at people like Ruth and Rahab and then we came into the New Testament, we looked at Mary. Well this year we're taking a little bit of a different twinge on it. We're talking about the first three kings of the nation of Israel in the middle of the Old Testament. Can someone tell me who was the first king of Israel? Saul. And then who came after him? David. And who came after him? Solomon. Right. And when exactly in history did all of this take place? Does anybody remember? It's about fifteen, you're right, if Terry was sitting here, it's about 1500 BC. So the story we're going to talk about today, which is probably one that you may have heard before, takes place at about 1500 BC or roughly 1500 years before Jesus was ever born. The Roman Empire doesn't even come on the scene until about 500 BC. So we're a thousand years before the Roman Empire even came into existence. And this morning we're going to talk about David and Bathsheba. The story of David and Bathsheba. Now if you would please notice on the back of your bulletin, there are some blanks that I would love for you to fill in along with me. I love to say even if you're going to leave the bulletin here, even if you want to leave it here, I'm not offended. But please fill out the blanks while we go through it. It helps you to engage in the message. It'll help you to learn a little more. And I think the story of David and Bathsheba, especially if you're like me and you went to church a lot as a kid, this story may be familiar. But what I hope is we'll see that there are some details that, you know, Miss Diane, sometimes we whitewash the stories when we tell them. And there are some really cool details within this story that I think will illuminate some things for us. So if you're going to follow along in your Bibles with you with me this morning, whether they're physical or digital, please turn or click with me to the book of Second Samuel. The book of Second Samuel. Would anyone like to guess what it comes right after? After. After. Comes right after. There's that dyslexia coming up again. After First Samuel. So if you find First Samuel, which is where we've been for the last couple of weeks, go to the very next book, you'll find Second Samuel. I don't know how many of you remember I said this at the beginning, but in the Hebrew Bible there isn't a first and second Samuel. It's just Samuel. It's the book of Samuel. And Kings is the same way and Chronicles is the same way. But when they translated the book into Latin, when they made the Latin Vulgate, the Latin translators broke the stories in half to make it easier to translate. And so that's why we have First and Second Samuel, First Second Kings, and First and Second Chronicles. So today in our English Bible, we're going to be in Second Samuel chapter 11. I'm pretty much going to read the entire chapter. I'll give you another second to get there. I will have it for you on the screen in, I think it's the New Living this week. I read it in a couple, but I'm pretty sure I put it in the New Living. So let's take a look at Second Samuel chapter 11, beginning in verse 1. And I forgot to change the title. But that is the right text, right? Like I said, my brain, I got here and spent the first 30 minutes troubleshooting the sound system because something was wrong with it. So my brain's a little off today. So this is Second Samuel chapter 11, starting in verse 1. And I'll be reading in the New Living. This is what it says. In the spring of the year, when the kings normally go out to war, David sent Joab and the Israelite army to fight the Ammonites. They destroyed the Ammonite army and laid siege to the city of Rabah. However, David stayed behind in Jerusalem. One late afternoon, after his midday rest, David got out of bed and was walking on the roof of the palace. As he looked out over the city, he noticed a woman of unusual beauty taking a bath. He sent someone to find out who she was, and he was told she's Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam and the wife of Uriah the Hittite. Then David sent messengers to go get her. When she came to the palace, he slept with her. And she had just completed the purification rites after her menstrual period. Then she returned home. Later, when Bathsheba discovered she was pregnant, she sent David a message saying, I'm pregnant. Then David sent word to Joab, send me Uriah the Hittite. So Joab sent him to David. When Uriah arrived, David asked him how Joab and the army were getting along and how the war was progressing. Then he told Uriah, go home and relax. David sent a gift to Uriah after he had left the palace, but Uriah didn't go home. He slept that night at the palace entrance with the king's palace guard. When David heard that Uriah had not gone home, he summoned him again and asked, what's the matter? Why didn't you go home last night after being away for so long? Uriah replied, the ark and armies of Israel and Judah are living in tents. And Joab, my master's men, are camping in the open fields. How could I go home and wine and dine and sleep with my wife? I swear that I would never do such a thing. Well, stay here today, David told him. And tomorrow you may return to the army. So Uriah stayed in Jerusalem that day and the next. Then David invited him to dinner and he got him drunk. But even then, he couldn't get Uriah to go home to his wife. Again, he slept at the palace entrance with the king's palace guard. So the next morning, David wrote a letter to Joab and gave it to Uriah to deliver. The letter instructed Joab, station Uriah at the front lines where the battle is the fiercest. Then pull back so that he will be killed. Yeah, this goes down pretty hardcore. So Joab assigned Uriah to a spot close to the city wall where he knew the enemy's strongest men were fighting. And when the two enemy soldiers came out of the city to fight, Uriah the Hittite was killed along with several other Israelite soldiers. Then Joab sent a battle report to David. He told his messenger, report all the battle news to the king. But he might get angry and ask, why did the troops go so close to the city? Didn't you know that there would be shooting from the walls? Wasn't a Bimalak son of Gideon killed at Thebes by a woman who threw a millstone down from the wall? Why would you get so close to the wall? Then tell him Uriah the Hittite was killed too. So the messenger went to Jerusalem and gave David a complete report to David. The enemy came out against us in the open fields, he said. And as we chased them back to the city gate, the archers on the wall shot arrows at us. Some of the king's men were killed, including Uriah the Hittite. Well, tell Joab not to be discouraged, David said. The sword devours this one today and that one tomorrow. Fight harder next time and conquer the city. When Uriah's wife heard that her husband was dead, she mourned for him. When the period of mourning was over, David sent for her and brought her to the palace. And she became one of his wives. Then she gave birth to a son. But the Lord was displeased with what David had done. Yes. And here we see that the shepherd king, the boy who defeated Goliath, the man after God's own heart, is not the man of God's perfection. David clearly has some issues. So I want to give you your first blank this morning. And then I want to sort of go back through this and break it down. So here's your first blank this morning. David ignored his responsibility. David ignored his responsibility. Sure. I don't know. I got to check my notes. I don't know. I don't want to give you an answer without checking my notes. But text me that question after church and I'll look it up. Let's take a look at the first two verses of our chapter. In the spring of the year when the kings normally go out to war, David sent Joab and the Israelite army to fight the Ammonites. And then look at the last five words there. But David stayed behind. Now, this is really the setting that sets up the story. As a child, when I heard the story of David and Bathsheba, the story always starts with him on the roof and her in the bath. But that's not really where the story starts. The author here gives us the information of what time of year it is. And that's super important because you have to understand the way war worked in the ancient world. People went to war in the spring after they planted their crops. But before they had to harvest them. They had this little window of time in spring and early summer where we can go bash swords together and then we can go back to the old days. And then we have this little window of time in spring and early summer where we can go bash swords together and try to take over territory. But when fall gets here, everyone is responsible for the agriculture that sustains our community. So there's this window of time where they can go to war. And that's what the author is letting us know. That there's a short window of time for these people to go out to war. And David chose in this instance to send Joab. And if you know anything about Joab, he is a fierce, passionate warrior. So much so that in his passion, he actually kills one of David's family members. And before David dies, he asks his son to lay out wrath on Joab. And Joab dies before David dies. But in this moment, Joab hasn't acted to fool quite yet. Joab is a trusted military leader. And David hands him the army and sends him out to fight. If you remember anything about this story of David and Goliath, remember I said you can't understand the victory of David without understanding the failure of Saul. Here, David repeats the same failure. Go back to when did Samuel first instituted a king? What did the nation of Israel say? No, no, no, no. We want a king who will lead us into battle. The number one thing the nation wanted was a human being leading them out to war. And what is the number one failure that the first two kings of Israel make? They stay home and they send everybody else to go fight their battles. So the entire story of David and Bathsheba is set with David ignoring responsibility, being lazy, and choosing his own personal pleasure over his responsibility and his job. That's the real setting. This is not just a story of a one-time lustful indiscretion. Because if he was where he was supposed to be, he never would have been on the roof to see her taking her bath. If he was doing his job, he wouldn't have had the time to be distracted by temptation. That's how this story opens. Has anybody ever heard the phrase, idle hands? What's the end of it? Or the devil's workshop or playground, right. Idle's hand or the devil's workshop. In this story, David's hands are idle. They should have been out to war with his army. They should have been out there doing his job as a king. But instead, he decides to send his army with his most trusted commander, which is not a problem. And he decides to stay at home. He creates the opportunity by giving in to laziness and he becomes idle. Here's your second blank this morning. David crossed the line and chose to sin. It was supposed to be chose, not choose. I make no pretenses. I can't spell to save my life. David crossed the line and chose to sin, not choose to sin. At least I didn't say choosed. He chewed. He chewed to sin. He chewed to sin. David crossed the line and chose to sin. Let's look at verses three and four. Late one afternoon after his midday rest, stop. What do we call that? A nap. Just show of hands, how many people are going home and taking a nap today? Right. What kind of life, what kind of, er, day? Yeah, life lived with naps is better. That's a meme. Somebody make that this week. Naps are always better. That's exactly what he's doing. And keep in mind, what did we just notice? The rest of his army is on the battlefield. They don't get no naps. There are no naps in the middle of war. We don't just take a break and go, oh, okay, everybody put your guns down. It's one o'clock. Everybody gets a 40 minute, this is not kindergarten. Okay, let's roll out, roll out your sleeping mats. Everybody, everybody take, here's your cookies. Everybody sit down. But look at what David's doing. He says, late one afternoon. The Jewish time table goes 6 a.m., 12 p.m., 6 p.m. We're probably, what, maybe 3 to 5 p.m. He's getting up from a nap at 3 to 4 or 5 p.m. Like, that's a life. He's, now, not only is he getting up from a nap, but look what he does next. He got out of bed and was walking on the roof of the palace. Now, I need to explain this because in our modern day context, let me, how can I say this in a nice churchy way? Normally, if you were to look out from your driveway and see one of your neighbors walking across the roof of their home, you're probably going to think there's some sort of hallucinogen involved. Okay? Or it's just Terry, which really doesn't rule out the first. Or Fred. Right. You guys are not allowed to sit close enough together where you can hear each other. But remember, we're 1500 B.C. We're 1500 B.C. People in those days, the roof is what we might use a deck or a porch for in our day. So, if I rephrase this sentence and I go, David got out of his bed and was walking around on his porch or out on his deck. Now, do you get the idea? He's not like crazily walking around on some teeter-totter roof. No, this is a flat, open space with tables and chairs. He's sunning himself. He gets up from his nap to go sun himself on his roof. Yes, in Prince of Persia, they had these big roofs. Yes, it's big, it's flat. It was used as an area of congregation. So, this is not some crazy sleep-induced or drug-induced balance beam act. No, he's going up out on his deck, catching some sun, just got up from a nap, feeling pretty good, grabbed some olives and some hummus and make an afternoon of it. And then he looks over the city, and this is another important thing. His palace was on a raised platform. His view from his roof looked down at the rest of the city. He was elevated. And because of this elevation and because he was on his roof at this particular time of day, he gets a bird's-eye view of his entire kingdom, his whole city. He can look out and see it. And this is the setting in which he sees the now infamous Bathsheba taking her bath. Again, getting up from a nap at 4 o'clock in the afternoon to go outside on your deck. Doesn't sound too bad of an option, but usually you're not watching your neighbors swim naked and sore. I'm saying, don't shut up, don't say another word. I don't want to hear your comment to that statement. Hopefully, let me rephrase this, hopefully as long as you don't live next to Mary, that you're not going out on your deck at 4 o'clock in the afternoon and watching your neighbors bathing in the buff. But to this is the situation in which David finds himself. And there's something really important I want you to see here. As he looked out over the city, he noticed a woman of unusual beauty. Bathsheba's first instance of being in scripture is naked and she's pretty. That's the first time we hear the name Bathsheba. She's naked and she's pretty. She was attractive to David. So what does David do? David sends someone to go find out who that be. Who that be? There's the international Bill version. He's on his roof, he just got up from a nap, he's taking in the afternoon Israeli sun, and there's this beautiful woman bathing herself and go, hey, Nelson, who's that? That's what happens. Who's that? And so someone finds out, and this is really important, the daughter of Eliam and the wife of Uriah the Hittite. Not only does the description of Bathsheba include her current marital relationship, it includes her family of origin. Now remember what I told you guys on Tuesdays. Any time a name is mentioned, you got to ask an important question. Why? Theological history. The Bible only includes names when names have meaning. Why are these two people mentioned? Because if you look up who Eliam is, Eliam is the son of one of David's most trusted advisors, which means Bathsheba is the granddaughter of one of David's friends. Just put it all together for you. Sometimes these names can be very specific. Eliam is the son of one of David's advisors. Now, in reality, David's, Eliam is probably closer to David's age, maybe even a little older. So Bathsheba's not an incredible amount of age difference from David. But he has two different understandings of who she is. First, she's the granddaughter of somebody I know, and B, she is the wife of someone I know. Because Uriah the Hittite, has anybody ever heard the phrase David's mighty men, his mighty warriors? David had a special operative team. Uriah is one of them. Uriah is not some random soldier in the army. Uriah is a member of David's elite fighting force. And if you read the story between the one we looked at last week and now, you'll see that Uriah the Hittite shows up a couple of times because of what's about to happen. Not only is Bathsheba the daughter, the wife of one of your friends, she's the granddaughter of another one of your friends. There should be some big red flags going up, going, okay, she might look really hot, but no. At some point, and that's what I think is so great about this one verse right here, when someone tells him who she is, he had to ignore all of those pre-established relationships when he called her to the palace. It's what I'm going to call premeditated adultery. This is not, and sometimes the story of Bathsheba is sold as a moment of lustful passion he gave in. You can't say that because of that line right there. He stopped and asked who she was, and with the information that she was married and the granddaughter of one of his advisors, he still pursued the engagement. That means this is not some random happenstance of I got in over my head, you know, things got out of hand. That's not what this is. This is premeditated adultery. Now let's go one step further. Do you really think she had a choice? 1500 BC, her husband's out of town, he's the king. There's an argument to be made that Bathsheba is just as guilty because she also commits. She doesn't resist, but there is a counter argument to be made that she really has a right to resist in 1500 BC. So whilst I'll say it's not super clear, I'm not going to call it rape, let's just call it forced non-consent. Does that make it? So this is not, I want to make very clear, this is not some accidental I gave in to temptation. David had clear lines he shouldn't have crossed. Not only that, but David's married at this point. David already has a couple of wives. So David's got a couple of wives who I'm sure we're not happy about this. Bathsheba's married, and obviously Uriah wouldn't be happy about it, and she's the granddaughter of one of his friends. There should have been a couple lines that went up that go, woohoo, look the other way, forget the mental picture, hit the trash can button, move on. But he doesn't do any of this. He intentionally pursues her, and even after he's given the information about who she is, he still has her called to the palace for one specific reason. This was not, hmm, she has a great personality, I should get to know her better. This is not, I could use another wife, I wonder if she's interested in being this, no. Like, Taylor's the youngest person in this room, right? This was a booty call, straight, free and clear. Like, he called her to the palace for no other reason than sex, and then sent her home. That's exactly what this is. But there's one other very important detail here. She had just completed the purification rites after her period. This is a really important detail because you have to understand how long after your period was over before she was allowed to do the purification rites, about seven to eight days, which means she's right in the middle of ovulation, which is why she got pregnant so quick. That detail is super important. Why? Because Daisy didn't stop to think about it. She is in the three-day window, like those of you who are married, you've actually tried to get pregnant. She's in that three-day window of time where you're supposed to try to have a baby. And that's when he calls Bathsheba to the palace. And that's when they have sex, and then he just sends her home. All right, let's look at your next blank. David tried to hide his sin. David tried to hide his sin. David tried to hide his sin. Let's pick it back up at verse five. Later, when Bathsheba discovered that she was pregnant, she sent David a message. Psst! I'm pregnant! And what does David do? This is very important. No, he's not smart at all. Not smart at all. I'm going to need you to refrain from editorialization for the rest of today. You had your couple strikes, you just sent them all. You're out of tokens for the day. I can't. There's not a big enough one. Here's the deal, and maybe I'm the only person that's experienced this, but have you ever been in a situation where you did something wrong, you knew you did something wrong, you had the opportunity to own up to it, but instead you made things worse? I know I've done that. I know the rest of you, in fact, if you're new, welcome to World's Most Perfect Church. I am the only person in this room that ever screws up. But I've been there, and there have been times in my life when I did something that I knew God wasn't proud of. I knew if my mama found out, she'd show enough, wouldn't be proud of. And so rather than own up to it and explain that I made a mistake and then move on not making a mistake, I did the idiot thing, and I'm like, I'll just hide my mistake. I'll just cover it up. And then you end up getting drawn into this death spiral of you have to keep up the lie, and then you've got to explain why the lie makes sense, so then you've got to manufacture evidence. I mean, it gets to be a really big hairy mess, and that's what David does. I want you to see here that he could have just simply said, I am wrong. And the rest, somebody's ringing. It's an iPhone. Okay. He could have owned up to it right here. And yes, he would have been guilty of sin. And yes, Uriah would have come home really ticked off. But instead of owning up to the problem and admitting he made a mistake, David now compounds his sin with even more sin. And in a very conniving, deceptive, and strategic move, he calls for Uriah the Hittite, Bathsheba's husband. So Joab sent him to David. When Uriah arrived at the palace, David asked him, oh, how's the army going? Does David really care? Doesn't David get updates from Joab? Didn't we already see that later in his passage? David doesn't need to ask Uriah how, hey, man, how's the battle going? It's like talking to somebody, like, man, how about them A's, huh? Like, it's a meaningless gesture because at the end of the day, he really just wants Uriah to go home and have sex with his wife. So he asked him how the war was going, blah, blah, blah. They have their little conversation. How's the weather? Price of tea in China? Okay. Go home and relax. What is he really saying? Go home and have sex with your wife. He's not saying go home and relax, make yourself a sandwich, watch some Netflix, some ESPN. No. He's saying something very specific. And in Hebrew, that term is a lot more understood. It's, I don't know, we don't really have an English term for it that I can use in church. So, but just in your brain, somebody tells you, go home and sleep with your husband. Go home and sleep with your wife. That's what David's really saying. In English, we call it relax. In Hebrew, Abby, the connotation was there. Uriah knew what David was asking him to do. He knew he was sending him home to have a physical contact with his wife. And even then, look, David even sent a gift to Uriah after he left the palace. He not only sends the man home to romance his wife, but then he sends the champagne to go with it. David is setting up the scenario for his best outcome, not for Uriah's. Now, why does David want Uriah to go home and sleep with his wife? Right. So all of a sudden, when the baby looks like the mailman, the husband still doesn't think twice about it. David gets the point. She's right here in this middle window. She just found out she's pregnant. I'll call her husband home. He's been in battle. He's going to miss her. They'll have sex. And that way, when she shows up pregnant, nobody's going to question that it was Uriah's baby. Take me to the next one. But Uriah doesn't go home. Now, again, why does Uriah not go home? This doesn't really make a lot of sense. Until you understand, again, ancient battle tradition. Terry, when all your boys are out on the battlefield, and they're eating their sheep jerky and making cheese, and they're sleeping in tents, it's dishonorable for you to come home and wine and dine and go hit up a melting pot with your wife. It's dishonorable for you to take the enjoyment of life while the rest of your brothers in arms are still out on the battlefield getting shot at and getting hacked up. Uriah knows this, which is why, even though his king has sent him home to sleep with his wife, his allegiance to his brothers in arms prevents him from taking that pleasure. So he goes to where the palace guards are. He goes to another military installation, the palace guards who stayed there to protect David, and he sleeps in the barracks with all the other guys and is having sheep jerky and cheese instead of going home and sleeping with his wife. So then David finds out, he goes, what's up, man? Like, dude, what's going on? And then look at his response here. The ark and the armies of Israel and Judah are living in tents. How could I go home and wine and dine and sleep with my wife? Uriah understands he can't do this. Uriah's character, now do you see the growing juxtaposition here between David's character and Uriah's character? Uriah knows even though he's allowed, even though he's the one man who should be sleeping with his wife, he is abstaining from that because of honor. And yet David knows he's the one man who shouldn't be sleeping with another man's wife and he doesn't abstain. Give me the last one, the next one. I swear I would never do such a thing. And then David goes, okay, stay here another day. And then he gets him drunk. David goes, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to get him sloppy face drunk. And then he'll forget about his high moral character and he'll go home and sleep with his wife like I want him to. Now again, you've got to remember David's not sending Uriah home for Uriah's benefit. David's sending Uriah home for David's benefit to conceal that which David has already done wrong. And yet he gets Uriah straight drunk and he still goes to the barracks and not go home. Uriah drunk had more character than David sober. That's a hard lesson to take out of this chapter, but it's straight truth. Uriah even intentionally drunk at David's hand still had more fortitude and character than David did getting up from his afternoon nappy. That might be mine. Can you check it please? So even after being drunk, he goes and he sleeps at the palace guard again. Let me move to the next one. Here's your next blank. David compounded his sin. David compounded his sin. So he tries, he sends him home with a little gift basket, some wine and dine, some chocolates and some champagne. That doesn't work. So he goes, look, fine, I'll just get you drunk and then you'll do what I want you to do anyway. Still doesn't work. So now let's pick it up again at verse 14. So the next morning, this is the morning after he got Uriah drunk. The next morning he writes a letter to Joab and he gives it to Uriah to deliver. At this moment, Uriah is literally delivering his own death warrant. Now Uriah doesn't know that because common practice for a courier is not to read the mail. He just delivers the mail. He's delivering it to Joab. Joab is the commander. David's the king. I'm just a soldier. I have no reason to read this communique. I'm just going to deliver it. So Uriah delivers it and here's David's command. Station Uriah at the front battle lines where the battle is the fiercest and then pull the troops back. When lying didn't work, when deceiving didn't work, when scheming didn't work, let's just go to murder. I mean, yeah. Do you see how dangerous the spiral of hiding can become? David chooses murder over honesty. Honesty costs him what? A notch off of his character, losing the respect of his men. But instead of just owning up to it, and he's trying to lie about it, he's trying to use this whole scheme of let's say Uriah's drunk, let's send chocolates to the wife. None of that works. So you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to kill you. That's what I'm going to do. Now why he kills Uriah, we're going to look at in another moment. But here what I want you to see is David has now fallen so far down this sin spiral that now he's stuck. Now he has to stick with it. I know, right? He has to go so far until he gets the job done. Because now he's done two or three wrong things on top of the first wrong thing. So Diane, now he's just falling down the rope. He's going to keep going and keep going until he reaches his objective. What is David's objective? No. What is he trying to hide? And what is hiding the baby really hiding? The adultery. At the end of the day, David is trying to conceal adultery. The baby is merely the evidence of the adultery. Had the baby never showed up and she ended up not being pregnant, nothing really would have happened. The baby is the evidence of David's adultery. And so now that since I can't pass the baby off as somebody else's, I'm stuck me and the baby daddy, I got to come up with another way to conceal the adultery. So first I got to get the husband out of the way. I got to go kill this fool. And so he sends him to the battle lines and he has the soldiers back away. So basically Uriah is left defenseless and he's swamped by the other guys. Is there another one after this? Yeah. So I think what's really, really sad is we find the line here. So the next morning they do it. Joab sends the battle report back. There it is. Uriah the Hittite was killed along with several other soldiers. Back one. No, back one more. Yep. Here it is. Uriah the Hittite was killed along with several other Israelite soldiers. David sacrificed the life of more than one soldier just to hide one night of sin. He not only killed Uriah, he planned on killing Uriah. But then sometimes your plans don't always go the way you plan. And now in order to hide his adultery, David has not only killed Uriah, he killed innocent soldiers. He sent innocent soldiers to die just to make sure that Uriah died, just to make sure that his sin stayed hidden. So I think this is falling so far down this spiral. Take a look at your next blank. Take me all the way to blank number five. God saw David's heart. God saw David's heart. Does anybody remember the story we looked at a few weeks ago when Samuel went to go anoint David? He goes over to Jesse's house. He goes to Bethlehem. He says, hey, I'm here to anoint one of your sons. And all of a sudden he sees David, or Jesse's biggest, oldest strapping boy and he goes, surely this must be the king of Israel. What did God say to Samuel? You remember? Don't look at the outward appearance because even though you may look at the outward appearance, it's God who looks at the heart. God who looks at the inside. And now David's getting a fresh look at what it means for God to look at the inside. All of David's scheming, all of David's planning, sending Uriah to the front lines, pulling back the troops, killing Uriah. That may have been hidden from most of Israel, but you've got to know, show enough, never hidden from God. God watched every step of David's monumental failure in this chapter. Take a look at our closing verses. David's attitude, he finds out how many people died. And he says, oh, don't be discouraged. The sword devours this one today, another one tomorrow. Fight harder next time. He's not even remorseful or regretful at all that he just killed multiple people to hide one night of sin. And this is the man that the Bible describes as the man after God's own heart. Now, he is still King David. It's from his line that Jesus came. It's how we got our salvation. But one huge thing I want you to take away from this chapter is you don't have to be perfect to be used or to be called by God. God called David for a specific reason, and in spite of David's failures, God used him. Now, there are some very severe consequences for this particular chapter. If you want to find out, read the following chapter. Not so good. David does receive just reward for his mistakes here. So all of a sudden, Uriah's wife or Bathsheba finds out that her husband is dead, and she mourned for him. When the period of mourning was over, David sent for her and brought her to the palace, and she became one of his wives. Here, Dan, he finally accomplishes the concealment that he's been looking for all chapter long. Because now that he has declared her one of his wives, when she shows up pregnant in seven months, nobody's really going to go June, July, August. Right. Nobody's really going to do the math. I think I was like 18 or 19 years old, and I was going through some of my parents' belongings. I had a marriage certificate, and I had a picture of my parents' wedding album. I finally looked at my parents' wedding album. I've never really done that before. I'm at my grandmother's house. I'm looking at my parents' wedding album, and my parents were married in the middle of June. I was born at the end of November, and I went June, July, August, September. My grandmother saw what I was doing, and she closed the book. She said, Ann, talk about that later. But you get what I'm getting at. By bringing her to the palace, by doing everything as quickly as he could, sure. You could just tell everybody, oh, the baby came early by a couple weeks. He gets away with it, or so he thinks. By killing off Uriah, this is David's plan. He finally gets the concealment of sin that he's been looking for. He sacrificed Uriah and several other good men in order to get it, but he brings her to the palace. He makes her one of his wives, and that way, eight months from now, when she shows up with a baby, nobody's the wiser. It looks like he took in a poor, lonely widow who lost her husband on the battlefield, and he brought her to the palace. I mean, you could sell that, can't you? Oh, you know what, Bathsheba, look, you lost your husband in service to our nation. You're beautiful. Why don't you come live in the palace with me? Become one of my wives. I will take care of you since you lost your husband. You've got to know his political machine was selling that like hotcakes on Sunday morning. He comes out looking like the hero when, in fact, he is the villain. This is the concealment that David has been seeking all chapter long. He brought her to the palace, she became one of his wives, then she gave birth to a son. This is the final verse of the chapter. But the Lord was displeased with what David had done. Despite all of David's trying and scheming and planning and executing, you can't hide from the eyes of God. Does it matter? Maybe your mama doesn't know. My mama don't know. God knows. Maybe your husband or wife doesn't know. God knows. Maybe your friends and family, your co-workers don't know. But God knows. At the end of the day, no matter how hard you try, no matter what lengths you go to, to spin the lies and spin the tales and get the pictures you need to manufacture the evidence that you are not guilty, God knows the truth. And in spite of all of David's failures, God still used him to bring the Messiah, which ultimately blesses all of us. So I want you to really take two things away from this chapter. Number one, I want you to see that spiral cycle that David got trapped in. Diane, if we went all the way back to the middle, he could have just said, Guess what I did yesterday? I was wrong. I'm sorry. I'm sorry about that. I'm going to own up to it. And it would have been over. There would have been no lying. There would have been no let's call the husband home. Let's get him drunk. Let's kill the husband. Let's get a new wife. Like he would not have had to go through any of what he went through if he just owned up to it. But because he didn't, he trapped himself in a death spiral that ended with the death of several men. And there's another death that's coming because of this. Go to chapter 12 and you'll find out. But someone else loses their life because of this sin.