We are talking about holiness and what does it mean to be holy and how do we live holy. And you know it's one thing to learn about holiness in biblical times when they had the temple and when Jesus walked the earth. But we need to bring that forward into today's culture. We need to learn, Melissa, what does holiness mean? What does a holy lifestyle mean in today, in 2016? Now I want to start with two small stories that I hope will get us in the mood and start our point. So here's the first. A teenager is playing basketball in their driveway. Picture a standard, you know, kind of Midwestern America home. There's the white picket fence. The kid's sitting there shooting free throws. All of a sudden he runs inside. Mom! Mom! I lost my, I lost the contact lens in the garage. I looked, I looked, I can't find it, I can't find it. Mom, what are we going to do? Mom goes calm down, go wash your hands, make sure the other one's still there. I'm going to go out and look, I'll be right back. So the son goes, okay mom, I'm so sorry, I can't find it. She goes, son, it's okay, you go inside, I'll be right back. So the son puts the basketball away, goes in and washes his hands. The mom goes out into the driveway, Fred, 30 seconds. She comes back, she goes, I got it, let's clean it off. Mom, how did you do that? She said, son, it was very easy. You were looking for a piece of plastic. I was looking for $175. Second story. A somewhat larger and curvaceous gentleman, possibly like myself, interested in losing weight. Trying very, very hard to slim down his figure and yet is struggling with it. I can identify with this character. Although I have to make a preface, this story has nothing to do with my real life. So a rather large gentleman, he's sitting down with his pastor and he's saying, pastor, listen, I can't do it. I am trying so hard to lose weight and be thinner and it's just not working. And the pastor says, well, okay, do me a favor. Tomorrow morning, 8 a.m. sharp, be dressed and ready to work out. That's it? Just be dressed and ready? He goes, yeah, be dressed and ready. And I'm going to help you work out tomorrow. Oh, pastor, that'd be great, thank you so much. So the young man, he goes home. He's super excited. He gets out his best running shoes and he gets out all his matching jogging gear. He's got a water bottle by the front door. He's ready to go. 8 a.m. sharp, ding dong. The front doorbell rings. He opens the door and standing in front of him is the slimmest, most beautiful woman in a skin tight tracksuit standing there. And she says, if you can catch me, you can date me. And she heads off down the street. So of course, the young man is highly motivated and huffing and puffing. He chases her all the way around the block. Unfortunately, he does not catch her by the time he reaches his home. She goes, okay, go inside. We'll try again tomorrow. Dan, guess what? At 7.59, he is dressed and ready to go at the front door. Again, the doorbell rings. Ding dong. If you can catch me, you can date me. And off the woman goes right down the street day after day after day. And he's still huffing and puffing. He's trying so hard. He cannot catch this elusive, beautiful woman. Three, four months go by. The young man loses a considerable amount of weight considering he's highly motivated to work out. Then three or four months down the road, he says, Judy, today's the day. I'm feeling good. He's limber. He stretches before the doorbell rings. The doorbell rings and he opens the door. And it's not the attractive woman in the running suit. Nope. It's an overweight woman in a running suit. And she said, my pastor said if I can catch you, I can date you. Two very comical stories to try to illustrate one point. It's often the motivation behind the job that gets the job done. The mother in our contact analogy was motivated to find the contact lens because it had more value to her than her teenager. Our young man who struggled to lose weight was, A, motivated by the prospect of a beautiful woman and, B, motivated by the prospect of the overweight woman. In either way you look at it, motivation is everything. This morning's message, if you look at the back of your bulletin, is entitled, The Reason for Holiness. The Reason for Holiness. Now I want to invite you to follow along with me this morning as we work through our blanks because what I hope to share with you this morning is, Nelson, I hope to give you the motivation to desire a holy lifestyle. Dan, we can talk all day about what it means to be holy. We talked all day last, or two weeks ago, we talked about the problem of holiness. The problem of holiness is, Fred, I have to change. If I'm inherently sinful and God calls me to be holy, then eventually that means things must transition from category A to category B. But before that can happen, we have to be honest. We have to be honest. What's the motivation? If you've ever been to theater school, that is the biggest joke on the planet. So what's my motivation in any classic acting school? The motivation behind the line drives the way the character delivers it. So what is our motivation? What is the reason for holiness? Here's your first blank this morning and then we'll get into it. God's plan in the Old Testament was a holy people. God's plan in the Old Testament was a holy people. God's plan in the Old Testament was a holy people. Now if you have your Bibles with you this morning, whether they be physical or digital, please turn with me to the book of Leviticus. That should be easy to find. It's the second book in the Bible, or third book in the Bible. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus. Leviticus chapter 11 verse 44. And I'm going to go through a couple different Bible translations this morning. I have the letters on the screen for all the translations we'll be looking at. If you like one of them, write the letter or maybe if there's a combination of letters you've never seen before, write it down, ask me after church. I'll be happy to tell you a little bit about that translation. So this is Leviticus 11, 44a, which basically just means the first half of verse 44. And this is the English Standard Version. This is the Lord Himself speaking. He says, For I am the Lord your God. Consecrate yourselves therefore and be holy, for I am holy. Now obviously we see that the Lord is speaking, but when He says, For I am the Lord your God, we have to thus identify who is the Lord speaking to in this verse. So let's just backtrack it. Who wrote the book of Leviticus? Anybody know? I'll give you a hint. Same guy that wrote the book of Genesis. Yes ma'am. So Moses is authoring the words we are reading. Who is the audience that is intended for the book of Leviticus? Who was the book of Genesis written to? The Hebrews. The children of Israel, the nation of Israel, the Hebrew Israelites, whichever term you want to use there. The Leviticus begins the books of the law. Melissa, this is the Lord God speaking directly to the nation of people that we now call Israel. The children of Israel, the Hebrews, the children of Abraham. There's a bunch of different words in the Bible to describe it. But the Lord is speaking collectively. That's the main thing I want you to see here. When He says, I am the Lord your God, He's not saying Nelson, I'm the Lord your God, but I'm not Kevin's God. What He is talking to is the collective unit that is the children of Israel. I am the Lord your, in the plural ownership sense, your God. And then He says, consecrate yourselves. Now if you were here for the first message in the Set Apart series, I used a very specific analogy to describe what holiness is. Does anybody remember the household item that I used to describe holiness? Guest towels. Guest towels. That's exactly right. I grew up in a home where we had guest towels. And whether it was Christmas, whether it was Thanksgiving, whether it was Fourth of July, whether it was Mother's Day, whether it was Grandma's birthday, when the guest towel out, we knew there was something special. A guest towel in its basic principle, Melissa, is one of the best examples of what we mean by consecration. When you're consecrated, you are set apart, meaning you are set apart for a special purpose. Here the Lord says, I am the Lord your God, collectively the children of Israel. So therefore the next sentence is addressed collectively to the children of Israel. Consecrate yourselves therefore. Meaning, because I am the Lord your God, go consecrate yourselves. That's what the therefore means. Therefore links the causal factor to the first sentence. Consecrate yourselves therefore and be holy. Look at that. Lynette, first consecrate yourselves and be holy. Consecrating yourself in and of itself is not holiness. It just means setting apart. It's consecrate yourselves, set yourself apart for my special purpose, and now be holy. Meaning, live in that consecrated state. It's not enough just to consecrate yourself one time and then go back to being a dish towel. If you're a guest towel, you're always going to be a guest towel. The point of consecration is to set yourself aside for that special purpose, but then there must be a continual setting aside nature. A lot of times in our modern day version of Christianity, we have this concept where, if I go to church one time and I say a prayer one time that I'm totally saved and I can live my life the rest of the way how I want to, that's kind of consecrating one time, but then going right back to being a dish rag. What the Lord is saying here to his entire nation of Israel is, Consecrate yourselves therefore, be holy. The reason, the motivation, the cause for the children of Israel needing to be a holy people is God is holy. God is the reason we are set apart, thus the example that we should be set apart for. Now this is just Old Testament. We haven't transitioned anywhere else yet. We're talking the beginning, this is Leviticus. We haven't even made out of the first five books of the Old Testament yet, and God had a clear plan for his nation, for his people to be a consecrated, set apart, guest towel like nation. Now let me give you your second blank. God's plan in the New Testament was a holy people. God's plan in the New Testament was a holy people. God's plan in the New Testament was a holy people. If you're following along with me, turn or click to 1 Peter. That's very close to the end of your Bible. 1, 2 Peter, 1, 2, 3 John, Jude, Revelation, so it's like six, seven books before the end of the Bible. 1 Peter chapter 2, this is in the NCV, which is the New Century version. 1 Peter chapter 2 verse 9 in the New Century version. But you are a chosen people, a royal priests, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. You were chosen to tell about the wonderful acts of God who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. Now let's go back and dissect this. You are a chosen people. Just like we had to define who God was talking to in our Leviticus verse, Fred, we've got to define who wrote the book of 1 Peter. I'll give you a hint, his name's in the title of the book. There we go. Peter wrote the book of 1 Peter. Who is Peter's audience? Who did he write to? Well, he did a lot of evangelism to Gentiles, yes, but Peter was an apostle. He is writing to the Church of Jesus Christ. So just like Moses was writing to the Hebrews, here Peter is writing to the Church, which by extension is also us today. But his primary audience or the original audience of this letter was the early Church, the New Testament Church, as it was being born. You are a chosen people, royal priests, and then look at this, a holy nation. Now, if we understand that all of the first converts to Christianity were Jews, they were already called to be a holy nation, right? Why does Peter need to reiterate this fact? If all of the first converts to Christianity, which is true, they were all Jews, they were all already called to holiness. Why then does Peter again say, you are a chosen people, royal priests, in another translation we say a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession? Because now not only are they the chosen people of God, they are now the bride of Christ. They are not just Hebrews, they are now Christians. And by extension, we as Christians today, this verse still applies to us. Now, if you remember the End of Days series, no, the Church does not replace the children of Israel. If we go all the way to the end of the Bible, God has set forth some clear plans, some clear promises for the children of Israel. He has also set forth some clear plans and promises for the Church of Jesus Christ. The two groups are not meant to replace one another. But here in this verse, both groups are really in here. Because, Peter's primary audience, we are all Jewish converts to Christianity to begin with, but it also applies to us. We today are a chosen people. Have you ever given thought to the idea that you are intended to be a priest? No. Most people probably haven't. And I don't mean priest in the idea that you have to go work for the Catholic Church or the Anglican Church or the Greek Orthodox Church, or I can't think of any other churches that call their fathers priests. But I've never been called priest. I've been called a lot of different things. But I've never been called a priest. But biblically, every Christian is a priest unto God. That's one of the major differences between the New Testament Church and the Old Testament Nation of Israel. The Old Testament Nation of Israel was 12 separate tribes, and one of those tribes was dedicated to the service of God. Which tribe was it? The Levites. Exactly right. It was one of the tribes that was dedicated to the service of God. The Christian Church, all of us are in effect Levites, if you want to use it colloquially. You are God's own possession. And here we go. You were chosen to tell about the wonderful acts of God. Does that mean we are chosen to tell the wonderful acts of God? Yes, it does. That is exactly what it means. Think about Jesus' final statements to his disciples, the commission. Go into all the world and do what? Make disciples, baptize them, and teach them. Go into all the world, make disciples, baptize them, and teach them. And I don't have the time to get on this particular soapbox, but that three-stage command is given to every Christian, not just pastors. Lynette, you have the right, the privilege, and I would almost say the responsibility to baptize someone if you lead them to Christ. And you have a pool, so it should make it a lot easier. Every one of us is in this you are. You were chosen to tell about the wonderful acts of God who called you out of darkness and into his wonderful light. You're here this morning because most likely you either are a Christian, or you're at least interested in learning what it means to be a Christian. That's the gospel in a nutshell. Being a Christian means, listen, I recognize I was a sinner. I fully recognize Jesus saved me from my sin. And I thirdly recognize it's my responsibility to tell somebody that exact fact. I was a sinner. I have been forgiven by Christ. And now it's my job to tell somebody else. That's the Christian church in a nice little three-step shell. Yes, we can get a lot more complicated in doctrine and theology, but we need to recognize that in the New Testament, God's plan for the Christian church was to have a holy people just as much as his plan in the Old Testament was a holy people. Here is your third blank. God's plan for us is to be his holy people. God's plan for us is to be his holy people. God's plan for us is to be his holy people. Now we're going to go over to the book of Ephesians. Ephesians chapter two verses eight through ten. And this will be in the New Living translation. So Ephesians chapter two verses eight through ten in the New Living translation. This is the apostle Paul writing a letter to the New Testament church in the city of Ephesus. God saved you by his grace when you believed. You can't take credit for this. It's a gift from God. Salvation is not a reward for the good things we have done. So none of us can boast about it, for we are God's masterpiece. He has created us anew in Jesus Christ so that we can do the good things that we have done. So that we can do the good things he planned for us long ago. God's plan in the Old Testament was his people be holy. God's plan in the New Testament was his people be holy. God's plan for you and I today is for us to be holy. And I mean that in the literal sense. Again, what does the word holy mean? It means set apart. It means consecrated. It means dedicated to a special purpose. It means stop being a dish rag and start living like a guest towel. That's what holy means. God saved you and by proxy me and Kevin and Miss Lena and Miss June and all of us. God saved all of us by his grace when we believed. We cannot take credit. And this is a huge point about holiness. When you truly gain the concept that you do not take any credit for your own salvation, you no longer have a foundation to be judgmental to anyone else. Because Melissa, I didn't make myself clean. I was still rotten and sinful and putrid and dirty and all of these things. Scripture says that my best righteousness, my best attempts at pleasing God, is no better than filthy menstrual rags to the glory of God. I did nothing to elevate myself out of the scum and filth of my life and to make myself one of God's possessions. And if I did nothing to accomplish that, then Amanda, I don't have any right to brag or judge or put down or sneer at. We talked in wired words about sneering at people. I don't have any foundation to do any of those things because I didn't bring myself from over there to here. If it's only by God's grace that he brought me out of my own sin, then you really don't have a leg to stand on to be all churchy and judgy and whatnot. But sadly, when people forget, they think, oh, I'm, you know, Melissa, and I don't know why all of a sudden the self-righteous guy in my head, like if you haven't heard me preach for a long time, there are several people that exist in my head. One of them is the self-righteous Christian. For whatever reason, my self-righteous Christian always has a southern accent. I don't know if he has a southern accent, but it's just that's the way he is. Bill, you know, I could tell you right now I am God's chosen people because my granddaddy's granddaddy founded this church 400 years ago, and my family's been raised on this pew. And if you need to know how to live right with God, I can tell you. No. How about if I need to live right with God, the Word of God will tell me and you can just pray with me. If we embrace the reality that God's grace alone has saved our soul from sin, that should really draw us to want more people to experience his grace, not drive us to a position where I feel holier than thou. That concept of, well, I'm holier than thou art holy. When you have to say, I'm holier than thou art holy, we've got a whole other prayer issue we've got to deal with. God saved you by his grace when you first believed. You can't take credit for this. It is a gift from God. And then look at this. Salvation is also not a reward for the good things we have done. Andy Stanley wrote a great little book entitled, How Good Is Good Enough? And it combats one specific idea that there is a measure of good enough to get into heaven. When you talk to a normal person on the street and they say, Hey Jess, you think you're going to go to heaven? What's the stereotypical American response? I'm a good person. Right? All of you just finished my sentence. I'm a good person. Wait a minute. Miss Judy, what is good? How do you define good? What is good in your eyes may not be good in my eyes. What standard of good are you using in order to define yourself as a good person? For most people, you're using whatever standard you are as good. Well, I'm not as bad as that person because of, you know, you become your own rule of good instead of measuring yourself against a clear and unwavering standard. The problem is when you begin to become your own definition of good, you're your own definition of morality. You're your own definition of ethics. You're your own definition of acceptable and unacceptable. And all of a sudden, Miss Diane, everyone lives their own standard of, quote, good. Salvation is not a reward for being good. Because, Nico, what is good for you may not be good for me. What is good for Amanda may not be good for my wife. What is good for Miss Judy may not be good for the other Miss Judy. Like, you have no idea when we just go, good. People say that to me. My brain, like, wants to pour out of my nostrils. And I go, what is good? Like, I even sometimes, you ever have this problem where you know you've said a word your entire life and all of a sudden you can't spell it? The other day I was trying to write your five-minute moments and I was going, what? I had like W-A-H, no, there's no H in water, like W-A-U, like I literally could not remember how to spell a simple word that my six-year-old can read in a book. I completely forgot how to spell the word water. I have no idea where I was going with that point, but it was funny. If we do not embrace the reality that there is one standard for heaven and hell, and that's Jesus, you can't be good enough. You can't earn it. Dan, you can't buy it by giving enough money to the church, although I'll be welcome for you to try. You cannot buy it by the amount of service you give to the church, although I will be welcome to help you sign up. You can't earn it, you can't buy it. Why? Because salvation is not a reward. So therefore none of us should boast about the things we do for the church. None of us should boast about the money we give. None of us should boast about the service that we give. Why? Because it doesn't matter. You know what I mean? You can't earn it, so therefore it's still God's grace. And if I can't earn it, then this whole righteous by comparison thing goes right out the window. Holiness means you're set apart by God's grace and nothing else. For we are God's masterpiece. He has created us anew in Christ Jesus, and here's the point. He has created us anew in Christ Jesus, so we can do the good things He has planned for us. Jess, let me ask you a question. Obviously everyone else can just take a five. Have you ever given thought to the idea that God has certain tasks, certain accomplishments set aside for your life to complete? That there are these dominoes, if you will, these little cubes in heaven that are things that the Lord has set aside for you to achieve in your life, for you to accomplish. And when you achieve and accomplish these cubes, these items, that these become the treasure that is stored up in heaven. Remember Jesus said, don't store up for yourselves treasures here on earth where moss and rust, but store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. God has planned these little cube-like items for each of us to accomplish in our life. And the sooner you catch that idea and that responsibility, wow, Dan, God has things for me. Like it's not just the guy who calls himself pastor who works for God. You do too. But if God had to check your productivity level, oh, ouch. All of a sudden, what if He has made us anew in Christ Jesus, not so that I can brag about my self-given righteousness, not so that I can be better than the sinner down the street, not so that I can be so super righteous that nobody can sit next to me in church without getting singed. He has made me new because God has things planned for me to do. The whole point of your righteous regeneration and salvation is Mr. Kevin, there is something God has purposed your life for that only you could accomplish. There's something purposed for Nelson. There's something purposed for me. There's something purposed for Dan. For every one of us, God has good things. Look at this. Good things that He has planned for us to do. I just, I think holiness is super exciting, but I will willingly admit to you that I have heard people preach holiness with so much condemnation that I couldn't even sit through it. You should desire to live a life of holiness because of all of this grace thing that just happened. We don't live holy in order to earn God's forgiveness. We live holy because we've been given that which we don't deserve in God's forgiveness. Now, let me give you your next blank this morning. Sin draws us away from God's plan. Sin draws us away from God's plan. Sin draws us away from God's plan. If you're following along with me, turn to 1 John. 1 John chapter 1. It's the fourth book before the end of the Bible. 1, 2, 3, John, Jude, Revelation. 1 John chapter 1. This is going to be verses 8 through 10 in the NIV or the New International Version. 1 John chapter 1 starting in verse 8. If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. If we claim we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar and his word is not in us. Now, this is the apostle John, the same guy who wrote the Gospel of John, the same guy who wrote the Book of Revelation. This is the apostle John also writing to the early church. Now, what I want to do is I want to look at the first sentence, then the last sentence, then I'll come back to the Oreo in the middle. If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves. If you are sitting here this morning and you think that you don't have any sin, you are psychotic. If you think you don't have any sin, you are delusional. What is psychotic? Someone who has actually deceived themselves into thinking their own self-deception is accurate. You are crazy, delusional. If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves. And look at this, God's truth does not exist in you. Now, that's a little harsher than just being called psychotic. That's a little tough. If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves. You give in to your own self-deception that you in and of yourself don't have any sin, and you live that delusion, and then God's truth is not in you. Now, look at the last sentence. If we claim we have not sinned, now these are two different things. The first one is, Fred, in and of myself I am not a sinful being. The second one is, I just haven't sinned. You see the difference. One is, I am inherently sinful or sinless in and of my own nature. I am so perfect, I can't sin. That's the first sentence. I am so perfect, I can't sin. The latter sentence is, if we claim we have not sinned. The latter sentence is a little bit lighter. Nelson, I recognize that sin exists. I recognize that you other people have probably sinned before, but I have never sinned. The first sentence is looking at the sin in your life from the perspective of you are inherently incapable of sin. The third sentence is looking at sin, Ms. Judy, from the perspective of while I am capable of sinning, I have never made that choice. Either one is still super crazy, but they come with two different things. If we claim we have not sinned, which means you willingly accept the existence of sin, but you think you've never done that. We make him out, who God? We make him out to be sinless. We make him out to be a liar, and his word is not in us. Do you notice the first and third sentences both end with the same result? If you do not accept the reality that you are a sinner, you don't have a relationship with God. Why? Because sin separates from God. Go all the way back to Genesis. What happened in the Garden of Eden when Adam and Eve disobeyed God and sin entered the world? The very first thing that happened, separation. They were brought out of God's big garden, and they were put into the earth. Second, there was still some consequences from sin, but the very first thing that happened is an automatic separation of relationship with God. Now look at the middle sentence. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us. Stop. I want to make sure we don't get off. I want to make sure we don't get off on a Catholic-bent tinge here. Who do we confess sin to? Yes, to God. There is no reason to confess sin to another mortal human being, because there are no mortal human beings who forgive sin. We're all clear on that one, right? All right, as long as we're clear on that. Now let me ask you a different question. If you're willing to get over a sin and you choose to confess it to a brother or sister to help hold you accountable, is that a bad thing or a good thing? That's a good thing. But do you believe in confessing that accountability that you're earning forgiveness from that person? No. I just want to make sure we're all clear on that. Sometimes when you see the word confess, your mind wants to go to that typical picture of the Catholic confessional. That's not the kind of confession we're talking about here. Confession literally means an open conversation with God. Because when we are open and we talk honestly and we admit to the Lord God, He purifies us from all, all unrighteousness. The cool thing about forgiveness in Jesus is your sins are forgiven past, present, and future. When you accept Christ, all sin from your life is forgiven. That includes the sins you haven't committed yet. Now, let me ask a question. If God has already forgiven you of all the sin that you will ever commit in your life, shouldn't we just go ahead and sin all we want? No. I'm super glad you all said no. Instead of somebody going, yes, that's what I get out of church today. And I'm out. No. Thank you all for being wise enough to see that. No. When we accept forgiveness in Christ, all sin is forgiven. From the beginning of your life to the end of your life, you are forgiven. But you also start a new process of learning to live the guest towel life. You have to learn to live in the forgiven state. Which brings me to your last point this morning. God's plan starts at salvation. Our last scripture this morning is going to come from the book of Romans. Romans chapter 5. We're going to look at verses 8 and 9. This is the new King James Version. Romans chapter 5, verses 8 and 9 in the NKJV says this. This is one of the most beautiful verses in the Bible. God demonstrates his own love towards us in that we are not going to be forgiven. This is one of the most beautiful verses in the Bible. God demonstrates his own love towards us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. The plan for you to live a holy life begins or began at the moment in which you accepted Christ as your Lord and Savior. In that moment, you were forgiven of all your sin. That is the demonstration of God's love for you. God demonstrates his own love towards us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Christ died for the sin of the world while we were yet lost in our sin. While we were still not deserving of forgiveness, we were issued that very forgiveness. God's love is the first cause, if you're familiar with that term. God's love is the first cause that starts the salvation cycle. God forgave us even, Melissa, when we were undeserving. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, justified that it's not just a TV show. It is a theological term. The term justified is, I think, the best way to explain it, is kind of like an accountant looks to balance the bottom line. You have debits, you have credits, but when you, what do you call it, you balance the books, all of a sudden the debits and the credits equal out, you go out to zero, and you know where all the money went. The term justified is very much like that. I suggest when we get to heaven and we have to answer for the sins of our life, those are debits. Those are the debits of our life, the sins we have committed, the failures in which we have failed God. And the question that comes up is, are those sins justified? Not, I was justified in running that person down because that is not what I mean. I was justified in giving that woman my peace of mind because, okay, just, mm-mm. What's that? You say that to yourself all the time. Yo, God, I was totally justified. You see the way he talked to me? For real. Had to smack him. God, if that person could use a turn signal, I wouldn't have had to stick my hand out the window. I'm justified. If God, if my form wasn't broken, I wouldn't have had to use those words. God, I'm justified. Not the kind of justification we're talking about. Is she going to love me? The word justified in a theological term means the balancing of the books. When we reach the gates of heaven and we are judged by God for the sins of our life, the credit of Jesus' righteousness cancels all the debits of our own sinfulness, and we are justified, we are balanced into the positive category. That is what, when it says we are justified by Christ, that's what's called the great exchange, if you've ever heard that. God exchanges our unrighteousness because Jesus' righteousness overtakes it, and when you bottom it out, we end up as holy. We shall be saved from wrath through him. Obviously, wrath meaning we don't got to go to hell. Even better, now that I've studied Revelation, we don't got to live through the tribulation. Thank you, Jesus. I would like to be gone for that seven-year hiatus. So, when we get to heaven and are justified by Christ, that is the beginning of this whole holiness process. Now, something I do need to point out that I think is very important to say. Just because your soul is holy does not mean your lifestyle is. Nobody wanted to amen that one. Everybody went, mmm. That's what I need. I need a button that I can press, and the law and order goes off. Let's work, Nelson, let's work on that. Give me a law and order button right here. And then I need an Alex Trebek button over here. So, when I ask the church a question and nobody says anything, I can just go, yeah, so I need a Jeopardy button and a law and order button. That tells you where I get all my theology from, primetime television. When each of us begins our journey with Christ, a pastor friend of mine, as I was talking about this series, he said something, and I will completely give him credit for it. Pastor Jim Olson at First Baptist Church, Pine Island, this is his term, but he said, he said, Bill, we are made positionally holy. Meaning, Miss Lena, in our position with God, our soul is completely holy. We are made holy because of Jesus. That doesn't mean just because your soul is holy, your lifestyle choices are. Just because your soul is holy, your language might not be. Just because your soul is holy, your entertainment choices might not be. Just because your soul is holy, your internet activities might not be. These over here don't stop the soul from being holy. It's the soul being holy that should stop these over here. I want to put it in the right order. You are made positionally holy with God the moment you accept Christ's salvation. We have the rest of our lives to work out living, to reflect the holy state of your soul that you gained in an instant. That's the point of discipleship. That's the point of growth. That's the point of accountability. You were made a guest towel, even though you live like a dish rag. That's a good tweet by the way. We should tweet that. You were made a guest towel. I don't know why I looked at you for Twitter, but I'm just saying. I should really look over there for Instagram. Right? You were made a guest towel in a moment, even though your life still looks like a dish rag. The point of living in holiness is accept the fact that you are already holy. You are made holy because you are made holy because you are made holy. I love movies. I love them. I love all sorts of movies. I was watching the original Robocop when I was seven. So I don't really have a problem with language in movies. It doesn't faze me. It doesn't bother me. It bothers the heck out of my wife. She does not like foul language one bit. Now, does that mean that my wife's life is not going to be good? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Now, does that mean that my wife's level of holiness is better than mine or different? Yes. As my wife would say, yes it does. Yes it does. You have to decide for yourself what parts of the world you're going to keep in your holy life But just because you're going to use the excuse that I need to do evangelism does not give you an excuse to not consider yourself as holy. There should be parts of your life post conversion that are different than pre-conversion. If you plus Jesus equals you without Jesus equals equals nothing. I say that like every week during this series because it's completely true. What part of your life has changed because of your salvation? That's holiness. That's set apart. That's consecrated. I'm no longer a dish towel, or a dish rag. I'm a guest towel. Because I'm a guest towel, I don't have to fill in the blank even though you might want to. That's the really hard part. You need to look at yourself as already holy and go, do I need to do that? Do I need to watch that? Do I need to see that? Do I need to say that? Do I need to think that? Whatever your challenge is, let's be honest, we all have our different struggles with our faith. But if your life doesn't change when you were saved, we've got to have a whole other salvation talk. Because I wrote this down, I don't think I said it so far in this series, but I wrote it down. If Jesus hasn't changed your life, where is the evidence He's going to change your death? What's that? I don't know that I've said it yet in this series, but it really hit me as I was trying to prepare to talk about this topic with you. Because it is a hard topic. Fred, we live in a world that doesn't care about what God says. We live in a society, in a culture that doesn't care about what the Bible says. And yet we are called to be a holy people. How do I be holy in a sinful culture? Go back and read the New Testament. The church was born in an age of polytheism and humanism and rampant sex and adultery. Did you know in the city of Ephesus to go to church meant you would go to the temple at Ephesus and physically copulate with one of the temple prostitutes that were there, and then you'd give an offering and go home? They never had a problem with attendance. Does that make it righteous? No. Just because you are a Christian should be enough to start thinking about what areas of your life should change. Do me a favor, pull out your connection card. Yes. No. I said if Jesus hasn't changed your life, where's the evidence He will change your death? Where's the evidence of it? Our changed life with the Holy Spirit is supposed to be part of the evidence of our salvation. If there's no change in your life, where's the evidence you actually got saved? Where's the evidence that Jesus meant enough to you to save you from eternity, but not enough to change your daily life?