This morning we are going to begin a series that I am honestly really excited about and it's entitled habits for health habits for health and then the basic concept is this we all have habits, right? Some of them good maybe some of them not so good. Okay, I'll give it Some of us may still have some bad habits left But the reality is we all have habits with the question that I want to present to you Throughout this series and have a sort of unpack and discuss is how do those habits affect us spiritually? Melissa, how do your everyday habits the things that you are used to doing? Affect you on the spiritual plane of your life Judy I think the reality is we would all admit we have habits Maybe some we would less be less likely to admit to can I say that we might have some habits that we'd be less likely To admit that we have and what I would hope to present to you over the next few coming weeks are The habits and that are going to help us to become spiritually healthy now Before we even get into this series, let me lay it Sean Let me just lay a little bit of of ground work here The definition of the word habit is an acquired behavior regularly followed until it becomes almost involuntary Melissa you can pretty much leave me here for next couple of minutes because I'm just gonna give you a little intro So it's an acquired behavior Regularly followed until it becomes almost involuntary Sabine It's not a habit if you have to remind yourself to do it. That's the first thing we want to understand It's not a habit Amanda until it becomes second nature It might be an acquired behavior, but it's not a habit until it becomes second nature Let me give you a list of the common bad habits that I was able to find in my googling I love that that's a verb now googling in my googling. Here are some of the top bad habits in the United States of America Number one and these are not in order of how many people have it just in the order that I made them smoking I think all of us would agree smoking is a bad habit drinking in excess Drinking in excess is a bad habit Here's one that I really didn't think of until I read about it not eating breakfast Did you know that not eating breakfast is classified as a bad habit snacking non-stop Guilty guilty. I'll just I'll just claim that one. Just own it tell the truth shame the devil snacking non-stop guilty It's a bad habit. This is one for us are my fair-skinned friends in Florida getting sunburned regularly But it was funny when I read it online It said getting sunburned regularly during the summer and I went that's pretty much all year round down here getting sunburned regularly is a bad habit Worrying on a regular basis. There are always things in life that we can worry about but when worrying becomes a natural default for you it has become a habit and Finally the overuse of painkillers or sleep aids The overuse of painkillers or sleep aids just because it's over-the-counter does not mean consistent use is a good thing But my question is with all those things that I just described to you Trevor. Why do we call it a bad habit? Why do we call it a bad habit often? It's because the effectual outcome on our life Kevin is negative smoking regularly the effectual outcome on your life is negative Over-eating and snacking over regularly the effectual outcome on your life is Negative, but if we can call something a bad habit Then I must also admit we should be able to call things a good habit and Chris will know it's a good habit if the effectual outcome in our life is positive and That is really the foundation of what I want to talk about over the next few weeks called habits for health My desire is for you to establish because it's the new year habits Dan involuntary actions you do so regularly that they become involuntary Habits that will make you Spiritually healthy now every every series at C3. We have a key thought so you can go ahead and show me our key thought for this series Our key thought my habits determine my health Give me a favor say that with me my habits determine my health one more time my habits determine my health Cha cha cha my habits determine my health cha cha cha That is the underlying truth that we're going to examine throughout this series my habits determine my health now that is both good and bad I will admit that some of us probably have habits that are spiritually unhealthy Not pointing fingers. I'm just saying I bet you that me me included There's a few of us that may have habits that are spiritually unhealthy But Nelson I also think there may be some of us who have habits that are spiritually healthy So in the next slide, this is what our message is going to be this week And we're all every one of those icons has a week so we're going to look at six unique habits this week the Bible Healthy habits the Bible the reason this is first is there is no more Important tool to your spiritual development than the Word of God Let me say that again. That's worth writing down analyzing tweeting whatever you need There is no more important tool to your spiritual health than the Word of God number one period all day the best habit that you can do is Begin in taking and consuming the Word of God on a regular basis So I've got a few thoughts for you this morning, but before that a short story Two brothers are walking along in the woods or Amanda two sisters if you like two siblings Let me say that be a little more be a little more gender non-specific Two siblings are walking in the woods Deep into the woods and they come across the clearing and in the middle of that clearing is a fruit tree Whatever fruit tree you want it to be this can be our story together Whatever fruit tree you want it to be and this fruit tree is laden with beautifully ripe lush Delicious almost lunchtime fruit now. I've got everybody's attention this fruit tree is laden Just just hanging with delicious fruit So the two siblings they walk up and they sit beneath the street the shade of this fruit tree and they eat their fill delicious yummy fruit and And and they want to take some with them. So what do we do? the first sibling begins to gather up as much fruit as they can take off the tree and and sort of makes a sack out of his shirt or somehow carries home a large amount of this fruit for him and his family and they enjoy that fruit for about a week or so the second sibling Takes the time to unroot the tree and plant it in their backyard and their family enjoys that delicious fruit For the rest of the year and years to come In your life the Word of God your Bible is this tree laden with fruit What I want you to ask yourself is today which one of those people are you? Do you come once a week to church and gather and collect your fill of Spiritual fruit and then dole it out to yourself all week long But then by the end of the next Sunday Melissa you're out of fruit So you come back to church to sort of refill and recharge but you're not developing fruit at home or Are you the other sibling that Kevin you found the joy and moving that tree into your home into your family and you? Regularly open the Word of God at home to read it and to study it this week I hope that I will encourage you and inspire you to create a better habit of Interfacing with the Word of God because remember my habits determine my health So if you look at the back of your bulletin it looks a little like this. It's got some blanks on it I've got five things I want to tell you about the Word of God this morning and each one's gonna have a fill in I'm gonna ask you to fill it in with me as we go along And then at the end of it, we'll get to your connection card. So here's your first blank this morning the Bible should guide your life I May be quote-unquote preaching of the choir here, but this is a foundational principle the Bible should guide your life The Bible should guide your life If you brought your Bibles with you this morning, whether they're physical or digital Please do me a favor and turn or click to the book of Psalms If you take your physical Bible and stick your finger right in the middle of it most likely you will land in the book of Psalms It's 150 chapters smack dab in the center. We're looking for Psalm verse chapter 119 verse 105 So Psalm 119 verse 105 and I'll have a for you here on the screen in the New Living translation So this is Psalm 119 105 in the New Living as we go throughout our message this morning We'll be using several different translations of the Bible If you find one that you like write the letters down ask me about it after church I'll tell you anything you want to know so Psalm 119 verse 105 This is in the New Living the word is a lamp to guide my feet and a light for my path Now those of you who may have grown up like me with the more King James Ian thy word is a light unto my feet A lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. What's that? And the Amy Grant song. Thank you You may be very familiar with this verse But what I want to show you here is all the way in the middle of the Old Testament We haven't gotten to Jesus we haven't gotten to the Calvary We haven't gotten to Paul and the planting of the New Testament churches There is a reverence and a need for the Word of God to be a guide and I really like the way the New Living Translates this in your word is a lamp to guide my feet I remember as a little child growing up in the Baptist Church and I First heard that verse your word is a lamp unto my feet I imagine small little flashlights on the tops of my loafers and and I as you know Just a lamp unto I was a kid I was I supposed to know any better a lamp unto my feet flashlight duct tape tape. I'm good The point of a lamp to guide my feet is very simple How many life decisions do you stop and reference the Word of God first? Just everybody think on nobody point fingers elbow in your neighbor is acceptable. However How many times how many times and when you are making life choices? Do you stop and consult the Word of God? How many times when doing business Do you stop and consider consultating the Word of God before? Executing a decision if you do not at all consult the Word of God Then Melissa by proxy the Word of God is not informing your life choices. It is not guiding your feet If we are to say that the Bible guides my life and Kevin I must at least refer to it in order to make life decisions That's like saying I'm going camping and I'm following my compass, but I left it at home What are you really doing? You're following your own will just admit it Just admit you need to be in charge of your life Just admit God is not powerful enough to help make your decisions. You have to make them on your own That is what I mean by the Word of God should guide our life It should be the guide to my feet and a light for my path Do me a favor highlight long press underline circle the word path in this verse to me Doug this one word Illustrates a very beautiful truth Do we believe as Christians that God has a plan for our life? Or do we simply believe Kevin that God is along for the journey that we choose for our life? Those are two diametrically opposed viewpoints. You cannot believe both either a you believe That God does have a plan for your life or be God is the spectator to your plan for your life But there cannot be two bus drivers Okay, so in your mind in your life, and this is obviously rhetorical don't point fingers elbows Okay in your life who's in charge of your decisions? Who's in charge of your long-term planning when you're planning out your life and you're looking at your expectations? And you're looking at what will the future hold this week is a great week to do that It's the beginning of a new year Mellie and I always sit down at the beginning of the new year and we talk about what do we want to do differently this year? What do we want different in our family? What do we want different in our marriage? What do we want different in our relationship with our children now that we're homeschooling? What do we want different in the way we educate our children? What do I want different in the way I do ministry? Get a plan now and plan your work and work your plan because dan you can want all day long and get nothing done You know what I mean you can have a plan all day long and still get nothing done Hopes and dreams and all that fun But at the end of the day who's driving the bus for your life if we agree that this verse is true Your word is a lamp to guide my feet my decisions must be consulting the word of god and a light for my path Melissa i'm riding the bus But my god is driving and directing my life That is a very different viewpoint than a lot of people will say we've earned here in our american culture Sabine, it's it's almost like i'm in charge of my life I make my decisions, but I love it How many people will come to me and they'll say pastor bill i've applied for such and such a job. Will you please pray? Yeah Absolutely, I will take every opportunity to pray for you. But what are you saying bianca when you ask me Will you pray for me to get such and such a job? What are you saying? You're asking will god help me get this job? Well, why do we ask god for help for the things we want but then don't allow him to drive the bus for the things He might want for us You know what I mean? So when we talk about god being a light for my path Whose path is it your path that god is watching or is it god's path that you are walking? Here's your second blank this morning The bible should Teach you how to live The bible should teach you how to live Now, I know this may sound like the exact same point, but I promise it's not The bible should teach you how to live If you're in the book of psalms, I need you to go all the way to the middle of the new testament We're going to look at second timothy chapter 3 verse 16 second timothy chapter 3 verse 16 one of the most Famous passages of scripture when we're talking about the bible itself second timothy chapter 3 verse 16 This is the new century version. This is probably one of my favorite translations For for teaching people who have never read the bible before or for teaching younger students teenagers kids like that The ncv was written and intentionally written to have an eighth grade reading level So it's super great for people who've never studied the bible before it's also great for people whose english might be their second language If you grew up speaking a different language the ncv is going to help you get into the bible really quick So second timothy chapter 3 16 in the new century says this all scripture is inspired by god And is useful for teaching for showing people what is wrong in their lives for correcting faults And for teaching how to live right? Like jill didn't that just sound super easy Super easy all scripture is inspired by god. Stop Let's talk about the word inspired for a second. We are not talking about the word inspired like hollywood inspired movies The word inspired in today's culture means sort of in respect to or as a throwback To but that is not what the word inspiration means theologically The literal word here in the greek for inspiration means god breathed It literally means the breathed or spoken word of god And I know many of you are thinking but doug Didn't paul write this how can it be the word of god if it was written by paul? If you can believe in a god who can create the world in seven days You can't believe in the sovereignty that he can see oversee the development of his word until it's done and correct Like sometimes we just give god this sovereignty the short end of the stick It is the word of god written in the hand of man all scripture is god breathed or inspired by god and is useful And then he gives us a few things the bible is useful for first showing us or is useful for teaching How can something be useful for teaching if we don't learn from it? So first off shawn we should be learning from the bible because it's useful for that That means we should be bringing our opinions our thoughts our ideas to scripture and learning whether those opinions thoughts and ideas are right or wrong Second for showing people what is wrong in their lives In your five-minute moment this week. I shared a short story. I'll expand it a little bit here In a time of my life previous to meeting melanie I was in a very Hypocritical stage I was kind of on the fence with this whole christian thing I was raised in church and as many of you know, I know the christianese talk really good Me speak christian good And so I was at this moment where I was attending church on sundays and even in midweek But you know what my monday my tuesday my thursday, especially my friday and my saturday did not look very christian Okay, just being very honest with you I was at a very hypocritical point in my life and I remember There was this one saturday afternoon where it was raining And trevor all of my friends were working And I really didn't have a reason to go out. There's never reason to go outside So i'm sitting around sort of in my frumpy pajamas and it's raining and it's just one of them indoor kind of days And for some reason I decided to read my bible instead of playing my computer or play xbox or doing that kind of stuff And so i'm sitting here and i'm reading the bible and clear as day I read a verse that exactly points out The hypocritical part of my life. I mean to the t it was scary true How true this one verse was and I just picked a rant. I just opened it You know, have you ever done that like christian fortune cookie style where you're like i'm just gonna read here And start reading And all of a sudden Dan you could just I could just feel who I now know is the holy spirit Trying to break through my heart and say bill this area of your life doesn't honor me this area of your life needs to change And I remember thinking Wow I had some good pizza last night Yeah spicy pepperoni Now I do remember thinking wow how amazing that just on a random page That god could speak so clearly and tell me this area of my life needs to change The bible is useful for showing us what is wrong in our life Now it's only useful if you read it Like the bible is not going to float off your nightstand and smack you in the face To let you know that you're doing something wrong. It is only useful if you read it showing people what's wrong in their lives For correcting faults. That's what I had that day The holy spirit spoke to me clearly through a passage of scripture and said bill you got me you gotta let this go You gotta stop doing that And finally for teaching you how to live right the bible not only teaches you what you're doing wrong If you were to stick with it, the bible would teach you how to live right the bible will show you the right way to live Now all of what I just said is predicated on one simple fact That when you and the bible are in disagreement the bible's right and you're wrong You cannot learn from a standard which you do not find more important than your own opinion You know what I mean? You can't learn from the bible if you're not willing to submit to it when you and it disagree If you consider yourself to be right and the bible to be wrong Then there is no learning because you don't consider the standard important enough So none of this can happen if you don't a read your bible and b actually consider it to be more important than yourself Let me give you a third blank this morning The third blank the bible speaks to your heart The bible speaks to your heart We're going to go to the book of hebrews chapter 4 verse 12 the book of hebrews chapter 4 verse 12. This is the english standard version or the esv The word of god is living and active Sharper than any two-edged sword piercing to the vision of soul and of spirit of joints and of marrow And discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart You know, I told you about that rainy afternoon when I was a young adult. This is exactly what the word of god did to me The word of god like that sharp two-edged sword just I mean like a scalpel Exactly cut me to the heart. I think I even called your five minute moment cut to the quick It cut me deep fast and on target dan it hit my heart right where it needed to be and pointed out my own hypocrisy The word of god is unique in its ability To carve out parts of your heart that need to be gone And in the same time encourage those parts of your heart that need to be grown It is the most Powerful and important tool that we have to grow spiritually Now I find interesting is this is also a verse that many people will use in spiritual warfare The word of god is a two-edged sword. It is an offensive weapon as well as a defensive weapon When it comes to the battle of sin and temptation, there is no greater tool than the bible There is no greater weapon than the word of god itself. Let's think about when satan tempted jesus In the desert if most of you don't know jesus was baptized He then went off into the wilderness for 40 days and he fasted and he was tempted by the devil And what did the devil use to tempt him? the word of god The devil quoted scripture In order to tempt jesus to sin, but what did jesus tote right back? The word of god for it is written Da da da da da da Jesus used the word of god as a defensive weapon to guard against sin and temptation But judy again, it's only as good as you read. It's only as good as you remember It's only as good as you study The word of god has the power melissa to cut all the way into your heart and heal ouchies from the past It has the power to cut into your heart and remove aspects of your life that don't need to be there But it can't do that if you don't open it You have the perfect open heart surgery tool sitting in front of you Some of us have more than one bible at home. How many people have more than one bible in your house? more than two more than four more than eight Okay, there's some of us. I like on my phone I think I have nine or 12 different translations of the bible because I like going and reading those different translations We today have no excuse to being able to interface with the word of god think about this when this scripture was written The new testament wasn't formulated yet What is he referring to all scripture? He's referring to the old testament and those pieces of the new testament that did exist They still didn't even have the canonized bible the way we have it today And even then paul understood the word of god is living and active It is not some dead book of history it is the word of god alive with its spirit flowing through its pages Here's your next blank this morning The bible is the only book that can grow your faith The bible is the only book That can grow your faith now. Let's go to the book of romans Romans chapter 10 verse 17. This is the new king james version Romans chapter 10 verse 17 in the nkjv So then faith comes by hearing And hearing by the word of god. This is a foundational verse to understanding how faith is grown faith comes by hearing Now and why would he say that? By the time that paul wrote the book of romans All of the old testament had been written. We know that he had they had the entire old testament More than likely they already had the gospel of matthew being circulated around and possibly early copies I mean mark and possibly early copies of matthew and luke Luke most likely had not finished axe and paul's in the middle of his missionary journey So he's written some of his letters, but not all of them faith comes by hearing The primary method in which people interface with scripture in that day was hearing it They went to temple and the priests read scripture by the time the christian church came around They met together in church and someone did exactly what i'm doing today, which is expounded the word of god to encourage your faith Faith comes by hearing now today jill. We also have the added benefit of being able to read god's word Some of us have audio bibles. You can just straight up hit play and listen to somebody else read you god's word But make no mistake without interfacing with it There is no growth faith comes by hearing and then he defines it further hearing by the word of god I can also be translated hearing about the message of christ It's the same same verbiage depending on which translation you look at The only way that you can grow in your faith is to spend time in the bible The only like I could just say that one sentence and amen be out The only way you can grow in your faith Is to spend time in the bible. However, there is two different ways. We spend time with the bible. So let me unpack this one here There is a difference between reading the bible and studying the bible There is a difference between reading the bible and studying the bible one one old-timey pastor used to say it this way Reading the bible gives you breath Studying the bible gives you depth And those of you come on tuesday night, I'm sure you'd be willing to admit There's a whole lot more depth to reading five or ten verses than you ever really thought was there when you're just glossing over Reading whole chapters when you take the time that's what i'm saying. Please come to tuesday night I'll even go as far as to say this if you have to choose between coming on sunday morning and come on tuesday night Come on tuesday and sleep in on sunday Tuesday will change you even more Than sunday mornings will doesn't mean I don't want to see you on sunday But if you if you had to make a choice like corey, can I pick on you for a quick second? Corey works a job that sometimes he goes into work at like what 3 a.m 3 4 a.m On sunday mornings, he's going into work his shift is ending when church is starting or sometimes after church has already started He came to me a while back. He said pastor bill. I'm so sorry that I can't come on sunday This is i'm not you have a job and you go to work and that's important And you come on tuesday nights and you stay involved and that's important. Where's the downside? Don't make sunday morning the idol that it shouldn't be You must spend time in god's word both reading it And studying it if you only read it You are missing out On the beauty and the depth of what can happen when you study scriptures in community with other believers You're just missing it like tuesday night and I tell the tuesday night girl time tuesday night is my favorite part of the week Like I like the truth, right? I like sundays don't get me wrong. I love leading worship I love coming up here and trying to exegete the word of god and encourage you properly But tuesday night is just straight fun Like we just get to get into god's word and dig it up and and that's really what the new testament church was You need to have times in your life of both read and study Because with only one of those you're missing part of the recipe for growing spiritually You're missing part of it if you're not doing both the bible is the only book that can grow your faith And you must be reading it and studying it Here's your last blank And then i'll get to my clothes your last blank The bible will always be true And you may think wow, this is kind of a funny funny point to stop on it seems kind of obvious It might be but let me unpack it and I might surprise you The bible will always be true Our last verse this morning comes from the gospel of matthew matthew chapter 24 verse 35 And I have it for you here in the new international version or the niv matthew 24 35 in the niv says this Heaven and earth will pass away But my words will never pass away Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away First things first let me unpack the words pass away because understanding these two words will help you understand the intended meaning of the verse In the original language the word pass away means exactly what it means in our language It means to pass away lena if you and I are driving on opposite sides of the road There comes a point where we can see each other there comes a point where we can see each other even clearer But then there comes a point where we pass each other and we appear in the rear view mirror The words pass away here Literally mean to disappear or vanish like passing someone on the street like in the rear view mirror That's literally what that word means In fact that the that combination of words is used in scripture to talk about one person passing another one on the street That fate kind of fading into the rear view mirror if you wish So what is he saying when he says my words will never pass away? The word of god is never going to fade into the rear view mirror Judy the word of god will always be true and always be relevant There's never going to come a come a time or come a point in our lives where the word of god passes us by And starts becoming oh well that was just for back then Ah, well, you know that was for back then sabine in the first century They didn't know about this or they didn't know about that So they had the word of god and that was cool, but we've passed that now we've passed that and now we know more Or I could say it this way If culture And the bible are in disagreement It is not the bible that has become irrelevant it is culture that has become unbiblical You heard that right if culture that's a good quote. I i'm gonna go back and listen to the recording and figure out what I just said if culture If culture and the bible are divergent if they are in disagreement It is not the bible that has become unrelevant. It is culture that has become unbiblical And by saying that i'm saying the bible is my standard by which I measure and when culture becomes unbiblical, that's fine Now, why do I say that's fine little history lesson nelson when our faith was first born How many religions were in play? You have any idea Judaism big The greco-roman pantheon big you make it over into the early The early scandinavians and norwegians paganism big eastern philosophy great wall of china big You have to understand when the christian faith was born. We were born into a world of competing religious worldviews The christian church in america has been blessed to be the primary viewpoint for hundreds of years But kevin it hasn't always been that way and it won't always be that way Our faith was born into a marketplace where there were multiple gods competing for people's attention The fact that we're going back to that now and christians are all getting scared just really confuses me It confuses me so much. I have to talk in a high voice If our faith was born in an era of polytheism Why do we think we can't survive it now? You know why because we've been so blessed and so coddled and so comfortable into thinking that everyone just assumes the bible is true Melissa nobody learned how to study it. Nobody learned how to defend it Nobody learned how to stand up for it when it was time when our faith was born nelson You either stood up for it or you stepped out of the way Because there are all these other religions all claiming to be god and claiming to have the same miraculous power that jesus had The reason I say the bible will always be true is culture will not always agree with the bible So you got to decide for yourself. What's your measure of truth? Is your measure of truth the consistent and unchanging word of god? Or is your measure of truth the subjective that which is culturally acceptable today Because if your measure of truth is that which is culturally acceptable melissa your truth will always be changing 20 years from now, you won't believe what you believed today because culture will have shifted culture will have changed Some social activist group will have invented a new hashtag and completely changed the paradigm and all of a sudden your truth Is now based on a changing standard Instead of an unchanging one The word of god is never going to pass into the rear view of our lives Because it will always be true. That does not mean kevin. However culture will always accept the word of god is true That i'm, sorry. I can't promise you You know it doesn't now you're right. It's absolutely right, but that doesn't mean it's untrue. It just means culture is unbiblical Not the bible is irrelevant This has got to be where we start Our conviction This has got to be where we begin and say you know what if you disagree with the bible I'm, okay with you being wrong You know and I don't mean that to be offensive doug you have every right You know in our country you have the right to freedom of religion doug you have the right to believe what you want to believe But so do I Don't step on my territory and try to tell me that the bible is irrelevant or that the bible has errors in it Or that the bible is not translated accurately like you have the right to believe what you want to believe But melissa don't come in my sandbox expecting to take over because we're going box It's just not the way this is going to go If we want to be christians and have habits for health we must accept the reality That as culture begins to become more unbiblical We must begin to live more biblical We must live lives that have a habit of regular bible Intake you can take me back to the title slide. I got a couple tough questions for you As we close out this morning talking about habits for health And a fun little puzzle is you get to look at all six of those icons and at a later date figure out what all six sermons Are going to be so if somebody wants to do that, that'll be that'll be a fun little puzzle But here's some tough questions for you Question number one, please do not raise your hand do not say anything out loud, but please be welcome to elbow your neighbor if you like Question number one How many times not in church? Have you read the bible in the past month? How many times not in church have you read the bible in the past month? How many times not in church? Have you studied the bible in the past two months? And that means actually open the bible with pencil and paper and did some form of studying How many times have you studied the bible in the past two months? How often do you think about the bible and its teachings during a regular day? And do you consider how the bible impacts the decisions you're making? How often do you consult the bible to make a decision for you and your family? And possibly most importantly when the bible disagrees with our culture, which one do you question first? When bible when the word of god disagrees with our current culture, which one do you question first? Having a habit Of reading and studying the bible is not going to come by osmosis or by accident It is going to come because you intentionally make a difference So i've got some practical ideas and steps for you. These are not necessarily in your next steps But here are some practical thoughts for how you could begin a habit of healthy bible intake number one Use the five minute moment or another tool to read the bible every day Jill you may not like my writing style I'm okay with that. I'm not offended. I write to the best of my ability This is the best I can give you if you don't like it or you don't like my tone of voice I'm definitely not offended. I've read some books where I didn't like the way the author talked I didn't like the tone in the page. So I stopped reading the book But just because you don't like my five minute moments doesn't mean there's not a million other Bible tools out there to help give you a daily reading plan Pick one and use it Meditate or think about a single verse throughout the day That's part of what the five minute moment is designed to do is to help you focus in on one verse or one thought That you can sort of think about throughout the day Get involved in a weekly bible study to learn more. I happen to know a really good one And read the bible out loud with your family Read the bible out loud with your family Those are four simple steps things you can do to take some practical steps to creating some habits now Do me a favor take a look at the back of your connection card Every week at c3. I ask you to take a next step A next step is something that we're going to do that. You're going to start growing in your faith Specifically this week you're going to start building a habit for health that involves the bible So your first neck your first next step this week. I will read the five minute moments each day That's simple. It's easy If you don't like the paper copy you could find them on the church website They're posted to our facebook and twitter pages every day like you can find them online If you really need to you can send me a text message and go where do I find the five minute moments? And I will text you a link right to the blog like you got no excuses people I'm going to find a way to get those five minute moments in your hand whether they're physical or digital But you still got to do the reading Number two this week. I will read the bible with my family You know what I find really encouraging is on tuesday nights When I hear some of the families talk about that you guys have read the passage together before we get there That's awesome. That means the bible study is beginning to transition from not just a church thing But it's starting to become a family thing. That's really the goal for you guys to be reading and studying scripture together as a family Third this week. I will attend the tuesday night bible study Doug i'm sorry, but my goal is for there to be standing room only in your living room I think that'd be fantastic. I will be the first person to stand for the entire bible study if we had that many people who could come Or sit on the floor that's true there's probably enough floor Sounds cooler to say i'm going to stand though This week. I will attend the tuesday night bible study And finally this week. I will memorize psalm 119 105. That's where we started Thy word is a lamp to guide my feet and a light unto my path Let the word of god be if you can just memorize that one verse But truly key in on the concept that the word of god is going to guide my life Every moment every day every decision every relationship. I mean that can radically change your faith And all you've got to do is step in and step up