We are going to be continuing our shepherd series this morning. Last week we began it. It's called In His Hands. And the series is basically an exposition or kind of an opening or an expounding on the 23rd Psalm. Some of you may be familiar with the 23rd Psalm. It begins with, The Lord is my shepherd. And forgive me, this is the end of the juice. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. We looked at that last week. Well, we're going to continue looking at that this week. And we're going to continue with pretty much the next verse in that. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. What comes after that? He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside still waters. He restores or restoreth my soul. That's the text for this morning's message. He leads me, in fact, Nico, can we have it on screen, please? The title of this morning's message is, He leads me. You can find some blanks on the back side of your bulletin. I want to ask you to follow along with me this morning as we take this journey. We'll basically be looking at Psalm 23 verse 2 and then verse 3a, which basically means the first part of verse 3. And this is the text. This is in the New Living Translation. He lets me rest in green meadows. He leads me beside peaceful streams. He renews my strength. He lets me rest in green meadows. He lets me rest in green meadows. He leads me beside peaceful streams. He renews my strength. Now let me give you your first blank this morning, and then we're going to break this down because there are some really beautiful imagery in here. So here's your first blank this morning. God leads to calm and peaceful rest. God leads to calm and peaceful rest. Basically, we're looking at that first part that says, He lets me rest, or you may be more familiar with lie down, as the old King James had it, lie down. What I want you to understand about the word rest here or the word lie down. In the original Hebrew, this is a very specific word. This word literally means to lie down or to crouch, and it has the connotation of a quadruped animal who tucks its four limbs underneath of its body in order to get lower to the ground. If we're talking about a sheep, obviously the sheep tucks in its four legs, and it lays down on the ground, and of course it's cuddly and it's cute, so it's adorable. But the same word can also be said of a lion. Does anybody remember the verse, sin is crouching at your door and it desires to have you? Same word in Hebrew, because what it's referring to is the physical state of the animal. And if I wasn't sick, I would physically crawl down on the ground and try to tuck all four of my limbs underneath of me to lay down, but you'll just have to imagine that imagery. But it is a very specific term, and keep in mind, who is the author of the 23rd Psalm? David is. What was David's job before he was a king? Yes. Everybody remember that? David was a shepherd. So the imagery and the words that he uses in this Psalm as he speaks about the Lord as his shepherd, these are not, baby, you smile? No? Okay, you go back to your line, so I'm going with that. That's very important to remember, that this is an actual shepherd writing this Psalm. This is not some just esoteric literary device. He's not just using the imagery of a shepherd because it's pretty. David was a shepherd to his father's flock. David's picking these words not because they sound good, but, Heather, he's lived the words that he's describing. When he describes this word here for lie down and crouch, it's because he physically knows exactly what the sheep do when they do that, because he was the shepherd that protected his father's flock. Now, in context, obviously the word itself, and here's Nico, an English major, and I failed English twice, so. But Nico, I've been corrected saying that words may have a specific definition, but it's not until words are used together that their intended meaning is relevant, correct? A word can have a singular definition, but it is not until those words are combined with other words that those words' meaning becomes relevant. So the definition of the word rest here is exactly what we said it is. It's a four-legged quadruped animal getting down on the ground and tucking all four of its legs in. That's the word. That's the definition. But the meaning goes beyond that. Number one, because David himself is a shepherd. Number two, you have to remember the type of literature that we're reading. And those of you who are my Bible studyers, my midweekers, you know this. The Bible has more than one form of literary or of, that's where I'm talking about, one form or one different types of literary genres, and we're reading poetry right now. The book of Psalms is Hebrew poetry. Kevin, obviously you wouldn't read a poem from Shel Silverstein the same way you would read an article from the New York Times. No one would expect us to do that today. When you read something out of the Encyclopedia Britannica, you're not expecting that to sound the same as Jay-Z's brand new song lyrics. Why? They're two different genres. Nothing against Jay-Z, nothing against Encyclopedia Britannica, but they're not even in the same ballpark or genre. So Dan, there should be no expectation that we read Britannica the same way we read Jay-Z. Likewise, there should be no expectation that we read Acts or the Gospels in the same way that we read the book of Psalms. Sabina, the book of Psalms is poetry. David is choosing these words which have a certain definition, but in poetry you can use a word to illustrate something much more beautiful. So what is he saying here when he uses this word that means to lie down or to crouch with its legs folded underneath of him? In context, what it's referring to, the only time a sheep will do that is when it is in a calm, safe environment, free of conflict. Now we begin to see the word picture that David is painting for us. It's not just enough, Josephine, to know the definition of the word because we're talking about poetry. It gets to be pretty. It gets to be meaningful. So here now we're taking it beyond the word, we're taking it beyond the definition to the contextual usage, and he's talking about just this word right here. What is the actual word? He lets me rest or King James lie down. I haven't even gotten to where we're lying down yet. Miss Judy, we're just talking about the laying down part of it, the resting part of it. Sheep do not rest unless they know they are in a calm, non-conflict environment. David knows this because David was a shepherd. Now you begin to see what is he saying about the Lord. The Lord brings me through seasons of peaceful rest where I am absent from conflict in my life. Can any of you think of a season of your life? Maybe can any of you think of the opposite season? Maybe I should have started with that. We do go through seasons of conflict, do we not? We live in a world full of conflict, human conflict, spiritual conflict. But what David is saying here when he says he lets me rest is he lets me rest in a calm, safe environment that is free of conflict. You don't have to turn there, I've got it for you here. Take a look at Isaiah 11, verses 6 and 7. In that day, the wolf and the lamb will live together. The leopard will what? Lie down. The same word in Hebrew, lie down with the baby goat. The calf and the yearling will be safe and the lion and a little child will lead them. The cow will graze near the bear and the cub and calf will lie down together. What is he talking about? He's talking about the Millennial Kingdom, the second coming of Christ. And Ms. Lita, wouldn't you say that when we get to the Millennial Kingdom, the second coming of Christ, all spiritual conflict is absent? Because we have the King of Kings. He has settled once and for all the spiritual war for sin. Same word. That when we lie down, when God gives us seasons of rest, they are seasons of safety, they are seasons of calm, and they are seasons of absent conflict. To bring it into the New Testament, look at Matthew 11, verse 28. Then Jesus said, Come to me, all who are weary and carry heavy burdens, and I will give you rest. For us in the New Testament church today, we know that Jesus is the Good Shepherd. We know that all the beautiful imagery of the Old Testament of shepherding is all fulfilled in the person of Jesus. And here we have that same promise from him. Come to me, all who are weary and carry heavy burdens, and I will give you rest. The same rest that David is talking about here. I will give you rest that is in a safe place, that is in a calm state, that is absent of conflict. Let's take a look at your second blank this morning. God leads to a blessed or blessed, depending on which denomination you're from, home for his flock. And apparently I forgot to put the divider in there. Sorry about that. God leads to a blessed or blessed home for his flock. I'll get into that verse in just a minute. God leads to a blessed home for his flock. Let's talk about where does he let us lie down. Miss Josephine, the psalm says in green meadows or green pastures. Some of you may have memorized it as green pastures. Interesting. Again, Zadok, we've got to talk about the definition of a word and meaning of a word. Did you know that the word pasture and meadow is not mentioned in Psalm 23 in the Hebrew at all? Even though that's how every, I looked it up, every English translation translated as pasture or meadow or grassland. None of those words are in the Hebrew. The original Hebrew, it actually is the word for home, abode, residence, natural place to live is what the word is. Now, of course, what is the sheep's natural place to live? The pasture, yes. But if we only think about it as a patch of land, if we only think about it as the back 40 grass goats get to eat, we miss some of what David is communicating here. The word is actually home or abode for the sheep. Now think about that. The home or abode for the sheep. The other word there is green. Now, obviously, Ali, what color is grass? It's green, right? That's sort of obvious. It does get brown. It does. In Kentucky, you could have blue. Where's David? Not in Kentucky. Very good. You thought you were going to trip me up with that. I like it. Keeping me on my toes. Now, grass is generally green. But David's not describing the color of the grass. In fact, in Hebrew, that word doesn't even mean green. It means lush, provisional. It means bountiful. It means blessed. The connotation here is not just a patch of green grass. Remember, Hebrew poetry. What is he getting at? The connotation that David is saying here is the word describes a lush, provisional state of the grass. The meadow is the home or the place where the flock have their residency. When taken together, it describes a lush, blessed, provisional home from God. Now, that sounds way cooler than green grass. Because you can always say, well, Miss Samina, the grass is always greener. Oh, God could give us green grass. But then we'd be missing all of that depth, all of that beauty that David has in these simple words, green pastures, green meadows. What it literally means is a home or place, provisional, lush blessing. Now, take that into your Old Testament context. Where is the Children of Israel's provisional, lush home of blessing? It starts with a C. Yes. Yes. Let's get beyond the green pastures. It's not just green grass. What is David saying? The Lord has provided for us, remember, David does have a collective relationship with God, with all the other children of Israel. For all of us, a lush, blessed, provisional home, the promised land, Canaan. And we see that here, Leviticus, chapter 20, verse 24. But I have promised you, you will possess their land because I will give it to you as your possession, a land flowing with milk and honey. I am the Lord your God who set you apart from all other people. You have to remember when David is writing. David doesn't know about Jesus or Matthew and Mark and Luke and John. He doesn't know about Paul. He doesn't know about Acts. He knows about pretty much the beginning half of the Old Testament. You read from Genesis through to about 2 Samuel. That's all that David knows about God. That's all he has experienced. And yet he knows the Abrahamic covenant, doesn't he? He knows that God has promised a provisional, blessed, milk and honey home for his children. We in the New Testament have the same promise. Let's take a look at John, chapter 14, verses 1 through 3. These are the words of Jesus. Don't let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God. Trust also in me. There is more than enough room in my Father's home. If it were not so, would I have told you that I'm going to prepare a place for you? When everything is ready, I will come and get you so that you will always be with me where I am. Where is he talking about? Heaven at first, and then when God builds what, we get to live where? The New Earth. We get to live in the New Kingdom, both on this earth and the New Earth. Is that not also lush, blessed, and provisional? We still get access to the same lush, blessed provision through Jesus as the Good Shepherd, as David has experienced through his relationship with Jehovah. But it's not just a patch of green grass. It's not just a putt in green, although that is a lush, blessed, provisional place. I will say that. It's not just the fairway on the back half of the eight. I was going to say that was a golf joke. I tried. It's Florida. Somebody in the room has got to be a golfer. Although this is our church. Maybe not. Play putt-putt? Okay, I'm down. Mini-golf. I can do some mini-golf. When he says that he lets me rest, remember, let's put it all together, resting, calm, absent of conflict, place of blessed provision, now we start to get a much bigger picture of David's understanding of his relationship with God. Let's keep it going forward. The next blank on the back of your bulletin. God leads his people specifically. Put that right there. Then he says he leads me. He leads me. The Lord leads, guides, and at times carries his children. Think about the wilderness wandering. We talked about that last week, right? The wilderness wandering is the same as the wilderness wandering. Think about the wilderness wandering. We talked about that last week, right? The children of Israel come out of the Exodus. That's the Moses story. Moses, he's raised in Egypt, then he flees to Midian. He speaks to God through the burning bush. He goes back to Egypt with his big staff. Pharaoh, Pharaoh, let my people go. Pharaoh refuses. Ten plagues later, Pharaoh goes, fine, get the heck out of my country. Moses parts the Red Sea. And then the children of Israel are disobedient. And they have to wander in the wilderness for 40 years. But during those 40 years, God provides miraculously for his children. Do you think that was an accident? God's miraculous provision every single day for 40 years. Is that an accident? Okay, let's take a look at Genesis chapter 12, verse 1. The Lord said to Abram, leave your native country, your relatives, and your father's family, and go to the land that I will show you. Is that an accident? Does God have a specific land in mind? Specific. Take a look at Genesis chapter 50, verse 20. This is Joseph speaking now at the end of Genesis. You intended to harm me, but God intended it all for good. He brought me to this position so I could save the lives of many people. Is Joseph's imprisonment in Egypt an accident? No, it's not. Take a look at Exodus chapter 3, 11 and 12a. But Moses protested. Who am I to appear before Pharaoh? Who am I to lead the people of Israel out of Egypt? And God answered, I will be with you. Is the calling of Moses an accident? No. Fast forward to Acts chapter 9, verse 11. The Lord said, go over to Straight Street to the house of Judas. When you get there, ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul. He is praying to me right now. This is the story of Saul's conversion to the apostle Paul. I wanted to end on this verse for a very specific reason. When God has plans for His people, they are not by chance. They are not by accident. They are specific. To abbreviate the story of Saul of Tarsus, Saul is probably the single biggest murderer of Christians in the Bible. Some would argue of all time. Some people think Saul may have killed so many people that he rivals the emperor Nero for the amount of Christians that he actually killed. I will just stick with what we are sure of. He is definitely the biggest killer of Christians mentioned in Scripture. And on such occasion, Saul gets a letter of permission from the high priest to go from town to town and hunt down those pesky Jesus-believing people and imprison them or kill them if necessary. He is on his way to, anybody remember the city? Damascus, I heard it. Damascus. He is on his way to a city named Damascus. And Jesus appears to him in a cloud from heaven. He says, Saul, I don't know why Jesus just sounded very Brooklyn right there. Hey Saul, why are you persecuting me? And Saul looks up at this cloud and he says, Lord, who are you? And he looks down and says, I am Jesus of Nazareth. Thought you knew. And from that moment, Saul is blinded. The Spirit of God covered his eyes and he is blind. For three days he stayed blind. They eventually make it to Damascus. And Saul goes to this guy's house, this guy named Judas. Not the same Judas who betrayed Jesus. Judas was sort of a common name back then. If you need to call him Jason so you get off the word Judas, that's fine. Judas has a house in Damascus. Guess what street Judas lives on? Straight street. Yeah. And then there's another guy named Ananias who's in Damascus. He is a disciple and he is praying to Jesus. And, Lena, God tells Ananias, go over and pray for that Saul. And if you've read the story, Ananias goes, God, you know he kills people, right? Are you sure it's the right Saul? Maybe there's a Saul in the next block and you just get your directions confused. Ananias doesn't want to do it at first. Because Saul has a reputation for killing Christians. But ultimately he follows God. And this is how God tells him how to find Saul of Tarsus. What I want you to see here is how specific the name of the street, the name of the house owner, you might as well have given him one, two, three straight street. When God chooses to lead his people, Nelson, it's not by accident. Sometimes it's hard for us to trust God's leading. Why? Because we think God doesn't have a plan? Because we think God is incapable of being specific? Because we think discerning God's will should take some super spiritual person in a crystal ball and 40 days worth of fasting? Or is it just that we are unable to trust in how specific God can be? Here's scriptural evidence. He said, go to Cape Coral, 527 Del Prado Boulevard. There's going to be a guy there named Stacy. Go pray for him. That is exactly how specific that verse is. When David is talking about God's leading, it's not the, oh I feel led this way. That's very emotional. God's leading is incredibly specific. Here's your next point this morning. God leads to safety and provision. God leads to safety and provision. So he lets me lie down in green pastures. He leads me to still waters. That's right. Literally in Hebrew that word means quiet, resting, or tranquil water. Still, that works for our language. Quiet, resting, or tranquil water. Quiet, resting, or tranquil waters. Now why is this important? Again, Nelson, you've got to remember David was a shepherd. He knows these imageries because he's lived them. What is the important of taking sheep by still water? Does anyone know? Kevin. So if they went into say a flowing, fast-moving river, they would soak up water into their wool and they would drag them down into the water and they drown. Precisely. You take a sheep who's laying down with a bunch of wool and he's all cute and flurry and fluffy. What happens when your clothes get wet? They get heavy. Sheep can't swim. They don't have these gigantic claws to claw their way out of the riverbank. They are for the most part a predatory animal. That's why we domesticated them so easily. You want a fun exercise? Try drawing a predatory sheep. You're going to give it claws. You're going to give it big fangs. You're going to give it big ears like a bat so it can echolocate what it wants to eat. None of that picture fits because the sheep by itself is pretty much a prey animal. But Kevin's exactly right. It's very important what water... Now let me ask you this. Can't we just go without giving the sheep water? Why? They would die, wouldn't they? Why would they die? Because they don't have water. Thirst? But why is giving them water important? If the water is so dangerous, why don't we just not take the sheep near the water? Water is necessary for life. But in the course of things that are necessary, at times they present danger. It's the shepherd's job to get you to that which is necessary for life whilst keeping you protected from the dangers that come with that necessity. That's what David is saying. When the Lord leads me specifically by these calm, resting, tranquil waters, all living things need water. Sheep, cattle are no different. There is another tale that my study revealed about this idea of still or tranquil waters. It lets the shepherd see if the water is clean. When the water is just churning really fast, you have no idea what's in that water. You have no idea if it's clean. Now, they obviously don't have the concept of biological contamination the way we do today, but they would know enough that if there's a dead animal in the river, you don't drink downstream of that dead animal. They do know some basic things. The tranquil still water allows the shepherd to examine it, to decide if it is stagnant or if it is clean enough to be fed to the sheep. All of this David understands because he has cared for his own father's flock. When he talks about God leading him to a place for still, quiet, tranquil water, he's talking about God's provision for something I need. I need water. I need a drink. Yet, in the midst of God's provision, God gives me safety. Take a look at Numbers 10, verse 33. They marched for three days after leaving the mountain of the Lord, the ark of the Lord's covenant moving ahead of them to show them where to. Stop and rest. That word rest, same thing. Calm, still, quiet, safe, lack of conflict. Hebrews chapter 4, verses 8 through 11. Now, if Joshua has succeeded in giving them rest, God would not have spoken about another day of rest still to come. So there is a special rest still waiting for the people of God. For all who have entered into God's rest have rested from their labors, just as God did after creating the world. So let us do our best to enter that rest. But if we disobey God, as the people of Israel did, we'll fail. There is still a New Testament expectation of God leading us to a place to provide for that which we need whilst keeping us safe. You add all that up, what does it spell? Forgiveness from sin. Do we need forgiveness from sin? Are we capable of getting it on our own? No. Is it dangerous? Sin and temptation can be very dangerous. They can lead you down a very dark path to some very bad outcomes. If you were like me, you probably made some bad choices in your youth. That's okay. Isn't it easier to trust the shepherd who's looking at the water before you drink it, to determine is it safe? Am I going to take Diane somewhere where she's protected and has what she needs? Or is Diane just going to march over here and go where she wants? And you know what's funny is the sheep probably, I bet you they have some sort of instinctual understanding that water is dangerous. But maybe not that the cleanliness of it is dangerous. As long as it's still and quiet, I may not fall in, I may not drown. The shepherd is looking at details that the sheep is not even aware of. The shepherd is looking at provisional details, protective details, that, Jonathan, you and I are not even on our radar yet. And yet God is still looking out for him. Your final blank this morning. God's leading restores us. And that's why you can edit recordings. I'm going to go into the recording and look for the one spot where it goes, God's leading restores us. The very last line we read this morning, he renews my soul, or you may have memorized it, he renews my strength. Let me ask you a question. Do you find your relationship with God a source of strength? Just to yourself. Do you find it an anchor that holds you in place when things get tough? Do you think that's an accident? Just think about your own personal life. You don't have to raise a hand. Just reflect on you, your walk with God. The great thing I love about our church specifically, but Church in general is when I, I guess you guys don't necessarily get the perspective that I get, but, Jonathan, come here. I'm going to give you a, Jonathan and I are going to have a moment really quick. Watch this. Stand here and look out at everybody. What do you see? People. Do they look the same? Do you think they all came to faith the same way? Do you think they all came from the same background? How does that affect the way you see the group? We're not all cookie cutters. We're not all the same shape. We're not all the same age. We're not all the same color. I know because I know many of you, we don't have the same church background. It's like looking at a mini body of Christ with so many different pieces, so many different fun stories. And the more you get to know everybody and you hear about how God is working in Sabina's life, and that's totally different. And you hear about how God is working in God's life, and you hear about how God is working in Sabina's life, and that's totally different from how God is working in Heather's life, and that's totally different from how God's over here in Josephine, and that's totally different from how God's working in Kevin's life, because I don't want to make you think I'm only pointing out women. So God's working in... For a second there, God is only working in the ladies' wives this week, gentlemen. So we have to pray for next week. When I get to stand up here and look at all of you, I get to see a much bigger picture of God's working in people's lives, because I'm looking at a multifaceted, multicolor, multi-generational concept of God's leading. Thank you very much. Everyone give Jonathan a hand. Now, take that, take that concept that's in your brain, that we all don't come to God the same way, the same story, the same time, with the same experiences. And yet, you all nodded your head yes, when I asked, does your relationship with God restore you? That means you don't have to have the same story. That means you don't have to have the same understanding. Some of you have been raised in church. Some of you, this is the first church you attended regularly. There's nothing wrong with that. Did you notice that none of that changed the fact that God's work in your life is restorative, is refreshing, because that is the nature of God's relationship with man. Regardless whether you're like me and Jonathan, who went to church all the time as a kid, and I got forced into Sunday school and church camp and everything else, that doesn't mean we all went down the right path every time, just to be fair, okay? That doesn't mean that he and I had these perfect cookie cutter upbringings. It just means that what we were exposed to as a child is different from someone else. And yet, when we talk about this idea of God renews my soul, he restores my strength, that word literally means to return to the first state, to renew, to return to its first state. Lena, that word in Hebrew can also be used to talk about a geographic return. Tuesday nighters, we just talked about Jacob coming home, right? Coming home to Canaan, same word. To return to the first state. To return to the primary or first state. Now, think about the day that you accepted Christ. Think about that moment when you decided, I'm going to have a relationship with God. How encouraging that was. For some of us, it's a very emotional experience. For some of us, it's more of an intellectual experience. There's nothing wrong with that. Again, we're not cookie cutter Christians. But all of us have experienced that return to fresh, that return to new, that return to encouragement and energy and excitement. That is what a relationship with God does. And guess what? It was that way in the Old Testament. This is not dead. It's not just a New Testament Jesus Holy Spirit thing. God restored and refreshed his children when they were still living in Canaan. Before the prophets, before Jesus, God restored his people. Take a look at Proverbs chapter 3, 7 and 8. Don't be impressed with your own wisdom. That's a sermon in and of itself. Just buy yourself. Just take that and shove it up your side. Don't be impressed with your own wisdom. Instead, fear the Lord and turn away from evil. Then, meaning if you do the first sentence, predicated on the first sentence, then you will have healing for your body and strength for your bones. Take a look at John chapter 4. I'm going to start reading in verse 9. This is Jesus' famous conversation with the woman at the well. The woman was surprised for Jesus refused to have anything to do with smiths. Back story. Jesus is standing in a well in the middle of Samaria. You have to understand that Jews don't like Samaritans. There's a racial divide here. Jews don't normally talk to Samaritans, let alone a Jewish man by himself talk to a Samaritan woman by herself. This is like racial divide plus she's probably a hussy, plus she's alone by herself and I can get cooties. All of that and Jesus still talks to this woman. The woman was surprised for Jews refused to have anything to do with Samaritans. She said to Jesus, you're a Jew and I'm a Samaritan woman. Why are you asking me for a drink? Jesus replied, if you only knew the gift God has for you and who you are speaking to, you would ask me and I would give you living water. But sir, you don't have a rope or a bucket and this well is very deep. Where would you get this living water? Where would you get this living water? And besides, do you think you're greater than our ancestor Jacob who gave us this well? How can you offer better water than he and his sons and his animals enjoyed? Jesus replied, here's the punch. Anyone who drinks this water will soon become thirsty again. But those who drink the water I will give will never be thirsty again. It becomes a fresh bubbling spring within them giving them eternal life. Here's the New Testament antithesis of what David's talking about. Our relationship with Jesus should be a sense of everlasting refreshment. If it is a sense of everlasting judgment in your life, you're doing it wrong. Your relationship with Jesus should be encouraging, not discouraging. Your relationship with Christ should pick you up, not put you down. Because that is what Jesus said he would do. It's not me up here making it up. You can read the text for yourself. He said it. It will be an everlasting spring bubbling up from within them giving them eternal life. In the Old Testament and the New Testament, a close relationship and reliance on the Lord God always included refreshing on behalf of the believer. Are you refreshed by your faith? Do you trust God's leading in your life? Do you trust that he's not just leading you to some random place that maybe things might work out if I tilt my head to the right angle, or I say the right word of prayer, or I pray to the right person? Trusting that God is your shepherd is a full trust. It's a full trust because God's not going to lead us to danger. God's not going to lead us to failure unless it's failure for a purpose, unless it's failure in the moment for the greater good of his kingdom. Let's say it that way. When we trust God as our shepherd it means he leads us to places of rest, absent from conflict, places of blessed provision, the ultimate one which being his kingdom later, and that he restores us, he renews us. If you're not getting that restored, refreshed, renewed sense in your faith, then I've got to talk to you. Because I've got to find out how we can help you do it right. Because when you spend time with God, he is encouraging. It helps to pick you up. It helps you go, okay, I'm going to go to church today feeling as bad as I feel because God is on my side.