This morning we are going to continue our Hall of Heroes Kings of Gold series. Now, if you've not been here for all of Kings of Gold, that's fine. Let me give you a quick background on what we're doing. Every summer I do a series entitled The Hall of Heroes, and this summer is no different. What Hall of Heroes is, in a real basic sense, is biographical sketches of very popular characters from the Bible. So, the very first Hall of Heroes, we looked at Old Testament heroes like Moses and Joshua and Samson. The following year when we did Hall of Heroes, we looked at powerful women from the Bible. We looked at Rahab, we looked at Esther, we looked at Ruth. This year we're doing Kings, and by Kings I mean the first three kings of the nation of Israel in the Old Testament. Can anybody name me one of the first three kings? I'll give you a hint. I talked about them for three straight weeks. Saul, there we go. Who was king after Saul? David. Samuel was the prophet. David's the next one. And who was king after David? Solomon, that's correct. So, this series we're focusing on Saul, who's the first king, David the second, and Solomon the third. And so, we've called them Kings of Gold because God was intending Jesus to be the king of Jewish nation. Unfortunately, as we saw a couple weeks ago, they wanted a human king, and God granted their wish and gave them Saul, and it didn't work out real well. And at the end of last week's message, we saw that God was rejecting Saul as the king because God had anointed and appointed a new man. So, Nelson, this week's message is entitled, Kings of Gold, David the Boy King. David the Boy King. If you brought your Bibles with you this morning, whether they're physical or like mine, they're digital, please turn or click with me to 1 Samuel chapter 16. 1 Samuel chapter 16. And what we are going to look at is the calling and anointing of David to become the new king of Israel. The reason this is titled, The Boy King, is because David is literally still a boy when this happens. He is not the mighty warrior David yet. There has been no David in Goliath. There's definitely been no David and Bathsheba. This is the first picture we get of David, and he is a young man serving in his father's house. You look at 1 Samuel chapter 16. We're going to read the whole chapter. It's only 23 verses, and I have it for you on the screen in the New Living Translation. So this is 1 Samuel chapter 16, verses 1 through 23, and I'll be reading in the New Living Translation. This is what it says. Now the Lord said to Samuel, You have mourned long enough for Saul. I have rejected him as king of Israel. So fill your flask with olive oil and go to Bethlehem. Find a man named Jesse who lives there, for I have selected one of his sons to be my king. But Samuel asked, How can I do that? If Saul hears about it, he will kill me. Take a heifer with you, the Lord replied. And say that you have come to make a sacrifice to the Lord. Invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you which of his sons to anoint for me. So Samuel did as the Lord instructed. When he arrived at Bethlehem, the elders of the town came trembling to meet him. What's wrong? They asked. Do you come in peace? Yes, Samuel replied. I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Purify yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice. Then Samuel performed the purification rite for Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice too. When they arrived, Samuel took one look at Eliab and thought, surely this is the Lord's anointed. But the Lord said to Samuel, Don't judge by his appearance or height, for I have rejected him. The Lord doesn't see things the way you see them. People judge by outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. Then Jesse told his son Abinadab to step forward and walk in front of Samuel. But Samuel said, This is not the one the Lord has chosen. Next, Jesse summoned Shimeah. But Samuel said, Neither is this the one the Lord has chosen. In the same way, all seven of Jesse's sons were presented to Samuel. But Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not chosen any of these. Samuel asked, Are these all the sons you have? There is still the youngest, Jesse replied. But he's out in the field watching the sheep and goats. Send for him at once, Samuel said. We will not sit down and eat until he arrives. So Jesse sent for him. He was dark and handsome with beautiful eyes. And the Lord said, This is the one, anoint him. So as David stood there among his brothers, Samuel took the flask of olive oil that he had brought and anointed David with the oil. And the Spirit of the Lord came powerfully upon David from that day on. Then Samuel returned to Ramah. Now the Spirit of the Lord had left Saul. And the Lord had sent a tormenting spirit that filled him with depression and fear. Some of Saul's servants said to him, A tormenting spirit from God is troubling you. Let us find a good musician to play the harp whenever the tormenting spirit troubles you. He will play soothing music and you will soon be well again. All right, Saul said. Find me someone who plays well and bring him here. One of the servants said to Saul, One of Jesse's sons from Bethlehem is a talented harp player. Not only that, he's a brave warrior, a man of war, and has good judgment. He is a fine looking young man and the Lord is with him. So Saul sent messengers to Jesse to say, Send me your son David the shepherd. Jesse responded by sending David to Saul along with a young goat and a donkey loaded with bread and a wine skin full of wine. So David went to Saul and began to serve him. Saul loved David very much and David became his armor bearer. Then Saul sent word to Jesse asking, Please let David remain in my service. Jesse became very pleased with him. And whenever the tormenting spirit from God troubled Saul, David would play the harp. Then Saul would feel better and the tormenting spirit would go away. Okay, is that the last one? All right, I want to go ahead and take a look at the back of your bulletin. There are some blanks on it that look like that. Please do me a favor and follow along with me this morning. What I'm going to do is I'm going to give you your first blank and then I want to go back through this passage. I'm going to pick it up a little bit because I think there are some very valid things that we need to see here. So here's your first blank this morning. God's plan required change. God's plan required change. God's plan required change. Now let's take a look back again at the first four verses of what we're looking at this morning. The first four verses. Now the Lord said to Samuel, stop. Who is Samuel? At this moment in biblical history, Samuel is the current prophet of God. You have to remember in the Old Testament, there is no Jesus, there is no church. The people of God are one nation. They're called the Hebrews or the Israelites. And the way God had it set up up until this point, Niko, there was always a prophet. And the prophet's job was to both hear from God and instruct the things that he heard. So we saw a few weeks ago, Samuel is the guy that anoints Saul to be the new king. Because it was God who appointed the king over Israel. So Samuel is the prophet. If you remember at the end of the last chapter, Samuel is pretty upset about the fact that Saul has failed God and not done his job of the king correctly. What is the job of the human king of Israel? In this moment in biblical history, in the middle of the Old Testament, it's the king's job to lead the nation of Israel in following God's will. Unlike secular kings of his day, it's not the king's job to just make money and make trade and make trade deals and build alliances and build an army. That's all things that the king does. But the king's job in God's theocracy is to lead God's people in following God's will. Samuel is upset that he anointed Saul and Saul failed God. So the Lord says to Samuel, you've mourned long enough for Saul. I have dected him as king of Israel. So fill your flask with olive oil and go to Bethlehem. Subtext there, get up, grab a tissue, time for mourning is over. What? Time for change. That's the subtext here. It's time for change. Find a man named Jesse who lives there. For I have selected one of his sons to be my king. Now just like with Saul, it is really God who chooses the kings of Israel in the Old Testament. They don't vote on it. They don't fight for it. There's no special lottery. You know, they don't like have to play, you know, are you smarter than a fifth grader? It is God who chooses the king. And here we see at the beginning of this chapter, God has chosen a new man for the job. And he gives Samuel very clear instructions. He tells him where to go. Look at that. Go to Bethlehem. He tells him who to see when he gets there. Find a man named Jesse. Go to Bethlehem. Find a man named Jesse. And ultimately he tells him where to find the candidate that got us. I have selected one of his sons. Now don't you think God could have simply said, Diane, you have mourned for Saul long enough. Go to Bethlehem. Find David, the son of Jesse, for I have selected him to be king. But God doesn't do that. Yeah, he could have. Think about in the New Testament when Peter is told to go to Cornelius. The people from Cornelius are told, go to Simon's house on Straight Street. There on the second floor you'll find a guy named Peter. God can be very specific when he wants to be. The fact that he told Samuel to go to Bethlehem, find a guy named Jesse, and I have selected one of his sons, is a pivotal moment that we're going to see it play out. Show me the next slide. But Samuel has a hesitation. Why does Samuel hesitate? Well, end of last chapter, Samuel and Saul didn't exactly part on good terms. Saul decided that he was going to disobey God, and he took King Agag of the Amalekites and held him as a prisoner of war, and set up a monument to himself. And this is the whole reason that God has rejected Saul. Samuel shows up and goes, uh-uh, we ain't keeping no prisoners of war, and hacks Agag up into pieces to offer him an offering to the Lord of obedience. Saul, if Saul hears about it, he's going to kill me. Why would Saul kill Samuel for what he's doing here? Saul doesn't want to let go of his power. He's king. Niko, if you were king, and you found out someone else was going to be anointed king, don't you think it's a logical human response? I'm going to kill that person so that I get to remain king. Saul has already proven, as of last chapter, he is willing to choose earthly wealth over godly influence. Last chapter he already proved that. He kept King Agag, they kept spoils of war when God told them not to. Saul has already proven he's a man of the world, not a man of God. And men of the world will use worldly means in order to get what they want. So Samuel's pretty resistant here. And God says, okay, fine, take a heifer with you. By the way, for those of you who don't know, that's a cow. That's a cow. It was not a traveling companion of large weight. It was a cow. Take a heifer. Take a heifer with you. And say that you have come to make a sacrifice to the Lord. Now, he's lying. Here's a big point here. Is Samuel lying when he says, I have come to make a sacrifice to the Lord? No, he is not. He brought the cow. He is making a sacrifice to God. That is not a lie. What's happening here is God is keeping his selection of the king confidential. There is a difference between lying and confidentiality. Now, you know, you've heard me talk about deception by omission. This really skirts the line. You know what the difference between deception and by omission and confidentiality is? In this story, the confidentiality is sought by God first. Notice God didn't tell him, even Samuel, who the king was. God kept it confidential. He told Samuel where to go. He told Samuel who to see. But even God has kept his selection confidential. I think, Jonathan, that's further of evidence of the fact that if God were just to say, okay, the new king's David, Saul would just come down on him, kill him, and keep the throne. The fact that confidentiality is going on here illustrates the real conflict between Saul and Samuel. And I will show you which of his sons to anoint for me. Now, you also have to remember, before Saul came king, who was in charge of Israel? Samuel. He was the prophet. It was God's job to speak to the prophet, the prophet's job to speak to the nation, and Nathan's job to respond to God. Samuel lost his position of authority when he appointed Saul to become king. And now, Saul is going to go through the same thing. Except the difference between Samuel and Saul is Saul chose the world, and Samuel chose God. Samuel is still being obedient here. But Samuel gave up his position in order to make Saul the new king of Israel. And when the Lord rejected Saul, everything else that mattered was gone from Saul. The Lord rejects Saul, and pretty much everything else that mattered. Now, the fact that Samuel is still afraid of Saul illustrates that Saul probably still has control of the military. He probably still has a governmental command. And this is a good point we need to make. What is the difference between someone who has earthly authority and someone who has Godly authority? Earthly authority can only last as long as you are physically capable of forcing your own will. Godly authority lasts because it's rooted in his spirit. Saul has lost the Godly authority when God rejected him. But he's still holding on to the earthly authority of the nation. To sum up this point, I could say it this way. When God is ready for change, he tells us, not the other way around. When God is ready for change, he tells us, not the other way around. Here's your second point. God's perspective was particular. God's perspective was particular. God's perspective was particular. Let's pick it back up in the latter half of verse 4 and walk this through a little more. So, when he arrived at Bethlehem, who? Samuel. Sent by God. Go to Bethlehem. Find Jesse. I'm going to anoint one of his sons. He arrives at Bethlehem. The elders of the town came out trembling to meet him. Why? Miss Diane, you've got to understand. What's the prophet's job to declare the word of the Lord? If you were to look through most of the Old Testament, do you know what you see? It's not usually the prophet of God coming with a sunshine and roses kind of speech. It's not a, yippee yay, you guys so good following God, I'm here to pray for you. No. Usually when God's prophet shows up, it's because somebody needs a whooping. It's because God's about to open up a can, and you need to repent before God brings his justice. So, seeing the prophet of God stroll into town. Jonathan, this is not a super exciting moment for Bethlehem. And you see that the elders come out and they go, what's their first question? Do you come in peace? Again, think about the politics of what's going on here. You now have a king who's at odds with God's prophet. He's been rejected by God. The prophet is still serving God. And the prophet of God generally doesn't show up with good news. So they're a little hesitant. He goes, yes, yes, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Purify yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice. Now that concept of purify yourselves is a little out of place for us today. We don't, I mean, hopefully everybody took a shower before you come to church today. Or at least, you know, I mean, shower regularly, hopefully. If not, put that on your connection card and we'll talk about that. But you have to understand that in this time period, in this context, being sacrificially pure, being sacramentally pure was very important. You couldn't live your regular, everyday, unclean life and then still be welcomed into the presence of God. You had to be sacramentally and sacrificially clean. And part of that was these ritual rites of purification in order to be pure enough to worship God. Now I know that sounds super backwards for us today because we have Jesus. The blood of Jesus makes us clean from sin. We're in the middle of the Old Testament. They don't have that yet. So in order to come and sacrifice and worship to the Lord, they had to go through this purification ritual. Next slide. Then Samuel performed the purification rite for Jesse and his sons. Think back. What was Samuel's instruction from God? Find a guy named Jesse. So what I want you to see here, and this was probably the single biggest revelatory moment for me as I was trying to prepare this message. Jonathan, from childhood, I was always taught in this story that David was anointed king in the presence of the entire city of Bethlehem at this particular feast that Samuel was hosting. What I discovered this week after I studied it in depth is that is not true. Think about what just happened. Samuel arrives in Bethlehem. He tells all the elders, go purify yourselves. What does that do? It gets everyone out of the way. Then he goes to Jesse's home. Look, then Samuel performed the purification rite for Jesse's and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice. What's about to happen right here is happening at Jesse's home. It is not happening in the full presence of the town. Why? Because God is still keeping his selection confidential. Samuel doesn't even know who it is yet. In fact, Samuel is about to get it wrong. God has still kept his selection confidential because he knows the type of wrath that Saul will have. If you read the rest of his book, Saul gets a little, a couple of times. Saul has a couple of really seriously Bellevue style moments. God understands Saul's heart and he understands what's going on. What happens here is a private moment at Jesse's home with just Jesse and his family. Then when Samuel arrived, he took one look at Eliab, Jesse's oldest son, and says, Surely this is the Lord's anointed. But the Lord said to Samuel, and this is probably one of the most popular lines from the Old Testament, Don't judge by his appearance or height, for I have rejected him. Stop. Does anybody remember the way God told Samuel how to find Saul a few chapters ago? Saul stood a full head higher than all of the other Jews in his town. He was a huge strapping guy. He was a military soldier style leader that by his sheer physical size commanded a certain amount of respect. Short guy doesn't usually pick a fight with big guy because short guy usually loses. So what you see here in a mirror is Samuel is just assuming incorrectly that God's going to do the same thing he did last time. Jonathan's fit. He's cut. He's good looking. He must be the right choice. No. And then God says, The Lord doesn't see things the way you see them. People judge, and this is one of the most famous lines from the Old Testament, People judge by the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. Give me the next one. Give me the next slide. There it is. Then Jesse told his son Abinadab. That's the next. He started at the eldest son. He goes to the next son, step forward and walk in front of Samuel. What you need to notice here, there's not been a single mention. Go Jesse. God talked to me. One of your sons is going to be king. Jesse does not know what Samuel is doing because Samuel does not even know yet who the king is. This whole thing is on the down low. Samuel is there. He is using the purification ritual as a reason to see and to celebrate all of Jesse's sons. But there's no mention of kingship after the very first moment that God mentions it to Samuel. There is no mention of kingship at all. It's a purification ritual for a sacrifice. But, Dan, Samuel into proximity and he has to physically purify every one of Jesse's sons. It's the perfect reason to get up close and personal to meet Jesse's kids. But they don't know yet exactly what's going on. So then fine, Abinadab shows up. Nope, not him. Shimeah shows up. Nope, not him. Neither this is the one. And then the same way, all seven of Jesse's sons were presented to Samuel. But Samuel said to Jesse, the Lord has not chosen any of these. Next slide. Then Samuel asked, are these all the sons you have? Now stop for a second. Has Samuel been to Bethlehem and met all of Jesse's sons yet? No. How does Samuel know there's a kid missing? Think about it. Think about his question. He says, wait, are these all the kids you have? How does Samuel know there's a kid missing? Explain. What do you mean process of elimination? So that means? Correct. Why? Because God's Word is true. There's got to be another kid. He doesn't doubt God's Word. You're going to anoint a son of Jesse. He doesn't doubt that at all. So rather than go with his physical perspective, right? God corrected Samuel. Don't look with your eyes. Look with faith. Don't look with the perspective in front of you, because your eyes will deceive you as to what the right choice is. Here, Samuel has gotten the Lord's lesson, and he goes, well, Catherine, you must have another kid. That's the only logical solution, because the Lord has told me what is true. What my eyes see in front of me is no longer as valid as what the Lord has told me is true. It's a huge change in the life of Samuel. When Samuel shows up, let's just anoint the biggest, baddest, best-looking guy. That sounds good to me. He's big. He's strapping. Abinadab had everything you would expect from a large military leader, but he made the wrong choice. And then he goes, do you have another kid? Can you imagine what Jesse and his brothers were like? Like, wow. Like, I get that it's the prophet of God, but when the prophet of God pulls out some God-style stuff, like, hey, Jonathan, you have another kid, right? Because the Lord spoke. Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, Jesse. And this is what I need you to understand. Where is David at this moment? He is out in the fields. Why did Jesse not call in David to get purified for the sacrifice? He did not think he was worthy. And this is why I want to tell you that David is probably 12 years of age or younger. The reason is he wasn't old enough yet to participate in the sacrifice ritual. He's outside tending the sheep. Now, I get the fact that when we get to the New Testament, we always want to celebrate the job of a shepherd, but what you need to understand is shepherds in the Old Testament, it was dirty work. Like, who's ready to sign up to go outside and sleep outside with a bunch of animals as they graze, especially in a culture where you have to be purified and clean just to go to church? This is not a respectable job. Let me say it that way. This is not a great respectable job. So Jesse doesn't even call in David from the field because David is too young, and he goes, it can't be David. Now, keep in mind, Jesse doesn't know what we're looking for here. He just assumes one of my big strapping boys must be the right solution. So then he goes, fine, go in and call your kid. Send for once. By the way, we are not going to eat until he shows up. So Jesse sends for him. When David shows up, he's dark and handsome, beautiful eyes like Nelson. So the Lord said, this is the one, anoint him. Do you notice the description of David against the description of his eldest brother? He's tall, large and strapping and good-looking. Don't get me wrong, they're both good-looking. Apparently, Jesse makes good kids. Jesse makes good sons. But what I want you to see here is David was good-looking, and he clearly had a, even as a 12-year-old, he had an appealing look to him. That's going to come up later when we see that he's got lust issues and he deals with Bathsheba. But what I want you to see from this point is even though Samuel was God's prophet, he didn't always exactly understand God's plan. God had a very particular good point that he wanted to make, and Samuel even had to change his perspective to be particularly what God wanted, not just what Samuel wanted. Give me a third blank this morning. God's power accompanied, that's supposed to be God's power accompanied his plan. I'm not always good with the English. God's power accompanied his plan. Take a look at 1 Samuel, we're going to keep going, 16, this is verses 13 and 14. So Samuel is now in the home of Jesse, private family thing. Samuel is purifying everyone to go to this sacrifice. He's looked through all six kids. And then look, so as David stood there among his brothers, this is another reason I want to tell you, this is a private in home thing. This is not a public in the city square thing. This is they're getting ready to go to this feast. So David stood there among his brothers. Samuel took the flask of oil he had brought. Why did Samuel bring oil? Because God told him to. Go get your horn of oil and go find this kid. He brought the horn of oil and the spirit, he anoints David, and the spirit of the Lord came powerfully upon David from that day on. Stop. For those of you who are unfamiliar with the idea, the Holy Spirit did work in the Old Testament. The Holy Spirit is not just a New Testament thing. It's not just a post-Pentecost, we get to live in the days of the Spirit kind of thing. The Holy Spirit is active all the way back to the first chapter of Genesis. And the spirit of the Lord hovered over the waters. The Holy Spirit has been active working in God's people from the beginning of creation all the way through to the end of creation. But in the Old Testament, when we see that the Holy Spirit came upon someone, it was at the Lord's choosing. The Old Testament Jews did not have access to the Holy Spirit in the same way that we as the New Testament church do. Miss Diane, we have Jesus. We have the forgiveness of the Savior Messiah. They don't have that yet. But that doesn't mean they still weren't empowered by the Holy Spirit, as we see happens to David. Now, David's like 12 years old. He just got called in from the fields. He's probably a little rank, because he's out in the fields with the sheep and laying down. What is the primary job of the shepherd in the field? To watch constantly. Make sure they don't run away. Make sure they don't get it by any kind of predators. It's just a hard, outdoor, hot, sweaty, smelly kind of a job. Then in comes this 12-year-old David. Now, keep that in mind. Your 12-year-old is watching your estate. Because what is sheep in the Old Testament? Money. Kristen, would you trust Riley out in the field, unobserved, to keep track of all of your money? All the time. Exception. Most parents would probably not send their 11- to 12-year-old to go balance their budget or to go invest in stocks. Because you've got to keep in mind, the sheep are the money. If you lose your sheep, you lose your cattle, you lose your estate. You've got nothing to trade. You've got nothing to work on. So David, in a very real sense, has got a lot of responsibility for a 12-year-old. That and, oh, by the way, he would have to kill the predator if it showed up. David would have to kill the lion, the bear, the wolf, whatever have you. We'll talk about that a little more when we get to David and Goliath. What I want you to see here is, God had already selected David. We know that because, Miss Judy, God told Samuel, go to Bethlehem, find Jesse, one of his sons. Even though God kept the identity of David confidential in this moment, you can see that God had a plan. God knew what he was doing. God was not making a mistake. When God called David to this job, now what is the job he's calling him to? Saul was the king of Israel. He's to lead God's people. God's power accompanied God's call in David's life. Jonathan, we're a part of the New Testament church. We believe we have been given a mission by God to spread his word, correct? If you ever considered the reality that you are called by God and empowered by God to do that job, and that God's Spirit enables you to accomplish that job, that is exactly what happens here. David is anointed. The oil is actually a symbol of the Spirit of God. The oil comes on David. He's anointed by God. He's then empowered by God. And then I actually split this next verse, because I think it's more important to be seen here. The Spirit of the Lord left Saul. Do you guys remember a few weeks ago when we talked about the battle of Jabesh-Gilead? Which, of course, everybody's Jabesh, right? Yeah. What happened to Saul right before he fought that battle? The Spirit of the Lord came powerfully on Saul. Why? Because at that moment, Saul is God's man doing God's job, giving God's power to accomplish God's job. Now, Saul has been rejected by God. In comes David. In comes God's power. Here's your next blank. Oh, the sum up point for that was, the Spirit of God empowers us to do the work of God. The Spirit of God empowers us to do the work of God. Your next blank. God's providence made the path. God's power accompanies His plan. God's providence made the path. Let's pick it up at 14b. This is where everybody starts to have a problem with this story, Jessica. The Spirit of the Lord, God's Holy Spirit, His Spirit of power and blessing, has now left Saul, and the Lord sent a tormenting spirit to fill Saul with depression and fear. Does anyone think that's a little bit of overkill? God already pulled His Spirit, His Holy Spirit, away from Saul. Saul is now trying to do the job of running God's people without the Spirit of God behind him. That's got to be hard enough. But you have to ask yourself, why does God send this tormenting, demonic entity to torment Saul? I submit to you there's two reasons God does this. Number one, judgment for His disobedience. He was clearly in the wrong and sinful when He disobeyed God. God said, don't do this! Saul did it anyway. Disobedience, rejection, shame on your whole family. But there's another reason that God sends this tormenting spirit. Take a look at what it says here. Some of Saul's servants said to him, hey, a tormenting spirit from God is troubling you. Let's find a good musician to play the harp. Whenever the tormenting spirit troubles you, he will play soothing music and you will be well again. What are they doing? They're setting up, that's exactly right. This sets the stage, remember, David's only 12. The only thing he's guarded are sheep. Do you think because David is 12, that he has the knowledge it takes to run the kingdom? No, he's got the call, he's got the anointing, but we're not done yet! He doesn't have the knowledge and skill that it takes to run God's people in God's methods. So what does God do? God sends this tormenting spirit to torment Saul and it opens the door. And then furthermore, just think how random. Random spirit of depression, random servant, mentions random shepherd boy who happens to also be a musician, and that musician when he plays causes the demonic spirit to leave Saul. Why David? Because it's God's plan. These are not seemingly random events. Abby, this is not random A plus random B plus random C must automatically equal God. No, this is God A, God B, God C, God's will, D. Think about it this way, up until this point, we've heard nothing of David's musical ability. It didn't become relevant until spiritual warfare was needed to battle for Saul's soul. And at this moment, God creates a need that brings David from his home at Jesse's house right next to King Saul. He gets to learn first hand how to run the kingdom. And he gets to learn it from the guy that used to be the Lord's anointed. So in a very real sense, God created the situation that brought his anointing back to the palace. Because it wasn't with Saul anymore, it was with David. And God gave Saul a reason to keep David around. He needed his ministry. In a very real sense, while Saul's kingship was confirmed through earthly warfare, David's kingship is confirmed through spiritual warfare. That's what he's doing here. Every time David plays the harp and worships God, the spirit goes away. Why? Because David's empowered by God's Holy Spirit to do God's work. And this opening, this tormenting spirit, creates the means by which David is brought into Saul's presence, that David confirms his anointing through spiritual warfare. And ultimately, I mean, look at the very last four words on your screen. Lord is with him. Somehow, someway, for some reason, David's anointing was evident. That does not mean Saul knew he was bringing the next king into the palace. It just means he knew God is working in this kid, somehow, someway, bring this kid to me, and he can minister to me when this horrible thing comes at me. Whether Saul knew that this tormenting spirit was a judgment from God, you have to sort of decide for yourself. It's not explicit in the text whether Saul knew he was being tormented by God. Do you think Saul knew that the tormenting was to bring David to him because David was the anointed? No. There's no human reason that Saul would know David was the anointed. I would know David was anointed king when Jesse and his own brothers didn't know what the point of the anointing was. But what's evident is God's providence opens up these doors. These seemingly random occurrences happen in such a way to open the doors for God's anointed to be right next to the king of God's people. When God leads, coincidence is often confirmation. When God leads, coincidence is often confirmation. Last blank. God used people to accomplish his plans. God used people to accomplish his plans. Let's look at the last four verses of the text this morning. Last four. So Saul sent messengers to Jesse saying, send me your son David the shepherd. Stop. Do you notice David's still known as the shepherd? He's not David the anointed king. He's not David the super rock and hard player. He's still David the shepherd. Because, just like Saul a couple chapters ago, just because he was anointed didn't mean his responsibilities stopped. Didn't mean he gave up doing what he was doing for his family. After that night, he went right back to doing his job of guarding the sheep. And as we will see in a few chapters, that was monumentally important for the way God prepared him to do his job. So Jesse sends David with these gifts for the king. So David went to Saul, began to serve him. Saul loved David very much, and David became his armor bearer. Stop. Armor bearer is another Old Testament term that doesn't really make a whole lot of sense today. So let me explain what it is. You understand that at this time period, warfare was fought by putting on physical armor, right? You put on actual metal armor. You hacked at each other with swords, clubs, axes, mace, rope, whatever you had. Chain, whatever you had to take down the other guy. But you had to wear all of this armor. Well, generally speaking, you didn't wear it all all the time. But you needed it near you. So if you were rich enough, if you were high profile enough, you had someone called an armor bearer who would carry your spear, because spears were often quite heavy, and maybe your armor. And they would fight alongside of you. And at the time for battle, they would get you dressed. They would prepare you to go face your enemy. Well, God aligns David right next to Saul in such a way that Saul desires to keep David close to him. And he gives him this very, very intimate, close position. What this arms for us is, David is the closest to his anointed role that he could physically be without actually being king. The king's armor bearer was the closest person to him. It's like the president's cabinet. It's like the vice president, the person closest to the president. God's anointing took a 12-year-old shepherd boy from some random town in Israel and put him as the closest man to the king overnight through these what seem to be seemingly random circumstances. So he gets there. Saul sent word to Jesse, Please let David remain in my service. Nelson, David got there, did such a good job. Excellent, diligent. Again, he has the spirit of God. He's blessed that Saul chooses to keep him there. And again, whenever the tormentor from God troubled Saul, David would play and Saul would feel well again. God made a way for David to be where he needed to be to gain the kind of training he needed to get. Now what does that mean for us today? I'll admit to you that there is at least one thing in your life that God wants to change. I may not know what it is, but you probably do. There might be one thing in your life that God's saying, I want you to take this step and be over here. You're over here right now, and I love you, but I want you over here. And like the change that we see happening here in this story, if you would be willing to step into the change that God wants for you, you will be powered by his spirit to accomplish his plan and be where he wants you to be, when he wants you to be, to get what he wants you to get. Understand this entire change that's happening militarily and politically is all underpinned by God's providence for his people. Now when we look at our lives today, we don't necessarily have the king that stands between us and God. In the human sense, we have Jesus. But how often do we still try to do things our own way? How often do we still go, Jesus, I'm going to hit you back. I'm going to do this real quick, then I'm going to hit you back. We all still have things in our lives that the Lord is working on, and we all still have things. Maybe it's not something you need to give up. I always hate to make it sound like I think you're all horrible, sinful people who have all these crappy things wrong in your life. That's not what I'm saying. Maybe what God wants to change in your life is not a step away from something, but it's a step into something. God's not saying, I need you to give this up. He's saying, Bill, step into this new thing, step into this new role, step into this new activity, step into this new person, talk to them about me. Your change may not be negative. It may be positive. God may be drawing you to a new place, as he did here with David. But I assure you of one thing. If you are saved by the blood of Jesus, you have direct access to the same Spirit of God that worked through David in this story. Your life is still guided by the same providential Heavenly Father who has a plan for your life to accomplish something for His Kingdom. The only real question to ask is, are you on God's plan or are you on yours? Are you living the Spirit-empowered life that God wants you to live to accomplish the goals that He has set for you in your life? And that's not fair to compare my life to yours, or Jonathan's life to Nelson, or Jessica's life to Holly. You each have your own calling in God. I don't want to stand here and say I want to make you all cookie-cutter images of the same person. Jonathan has tasks in front of him that the Lord has issued to him, and they're different from Shawn, and that's awesome, and it's blessed, and it's the way it should be. But when we're talking about change, we're talking about what is God drawing you to, what is He pulling you away from, the only real question to ask is, are you submitting to God's Spirit or like maybe Samuel in the beginning of this story, are you just really looking with your own eyes and making your own choices? In one of your five-minute moments this week, I talk about the difference between the good, the bad, and the change. Life always has change. I think most of us have accepted that life has change. Sometimes it's good change, you get a raise at work. Sometimes it's bad change, you get a bill that goes up, takes away that raise at work. We often define change in our own human-centered moral terms of this is good, and what you're really saying is this is good for me. This is bad, this is bad for me. You need to change that perspective to what is good is what is God, what is bad is what is not. What is the Lord drawing for you to change in your life, either pull you away from something or push you towards something else?