We are going to continue our series entitled, Habits for Health. Habits for Health. Since the beginning of the year, we have been talking about habits and how those habits affect our health. Now, with every series we have here at C3, we have a key thought. So, let's take a look at our key thought first, and this is where we start each message from this series. My habits determine my health. My habits determine my health. That's true really in the spiritual realm and in the physical. You know, Fred Schultz, who's not here this morning because he's in Miami, he trains and he does these Ironman triathlons. And you can't just wake up one day, or at least, okay, I can't. Obviously, this does not wake up and do a triathlon without some sort of premeditation. But generally speaking, you don't wake up one day and just decide to run an Ironman. You've got to put in a habit of preparing for it. Well, just like the physical world, our spiritual lives depend on our spiritual habits. So, we've been examining different habits all throughout the series. Now, this morning I'd like to take a look at the back of your bulletin. It's got some blanks on it. Hopefully, it looks a lot like this one. If not, you might have accidentally gotten last week's. That's okay. That was a good message, but the blanks aren't going to line up with this morning. Please take a look at your bulletin. It's got some blanks there. You can see we're going to be talking about habits for health, stewardship. Habits for health, stewardship. Now, before I begin this morning's message, I want to go ahead and take care of the elephant in the room. Because in church, anytime the word stewardship is said, everybody automatically thinks money. Yes, ma'am. Money. Offering. The reality is, when we say the word stewardship in church, Ms. Diane, you're exactly right. Everybody thinks money. I want you to unwind that thought out of your head for just a moment. And I want to present you a different view of the word stewardship. In life, there are two main forms of currency. Money is one of them. Time is the other. In life, there are two main forms of currency. Time and money. And I will submit to you that you will spend one in order to use the other. Time and money. You'll spend one in order to use the other. Check this out. We spend time making money. And then we turn around and we spend that money having a good time. We may also spend time to save money. And we may spend money to save time. Right? Interesting how these two objects are related in our life. We spend time making money. Many of you go to work. That's how you do that. You spend money having a good time. Friday night, going to the movies, going out with the gals, guys tonight, shooting pool. Plenty of different ways to spend money and have a good time. Some of us spend time to save money. When I can't afford to pay the loan guy to do my lawn, guess what? I go find my lawn mower and I do it myself. Because I can spend money. Or I can spend time and save money. And then finally, sometimes you forgot to put the chicken out. That's my fault. Every time we forget to unthaw meat, that is always my fault. Melanie will call me at 10 o'clock in the morning. She knows exactly what she wants to make for dinner. She says, Bill, can you take blah, blah, blah out of the freezer? She gets home at like 3 o'clock after she's visited her Sanibel client. Did you take out the chicken? Nope. And of course now, no, I'm not even going to try to lie. And of course now it's too late. So then we end up having to spend money to save time, which in my house generally translates to order pizza. It's spending money to save time. Here's what I think is interesting about both time and money. Not only are they related, they are both temporal. They are both temporal. You cannot make more time. Time marches on the arrow of time, the philosophical concept. Time marches on in a singular direction. You can never make more of it. And how many of you heard the phrase, you can't take it with you when you go? We cannot make more time. And Miss Anne, we can't take our money with us. So that means not only are the two largest forms of currency in the world, interconnected, they are both also only usable in this lifetime. While we live on this earth, because once we transition from this life to the next life, both forms of those currency go away. So Nelson, I want to give you a completely different view of stewardship this morning. Here it is. How you use your time and money in this life is stewardship. It's not a matter of money or money. It's not a matter of money or money. It's not a matter of money or money. It's not in your notes yet. But here's my opening thesis statement for this morning's message. How you use your time and your money in this life, that is stewardship. Now if you have your Bibles with you this morning, or whether they're physical or digital, please turn with me to the book of Ephesians, chapter 5. We're going to look at a short section of scripture this morning, but there's just a lot of super good nuggets that are buried in this section. So Ephesians chapter 5, we're going to read verses 15 to 19. Ephesians 5, verses 15 to 19, and I'll have it for you here on the screen in the New Living translation, the NLT. So this is Ephesians chapter 5, 15 to 19, in the New Living, and this is what it says. This is Paul writing a letter to the church or the Christians who live in the city of Ephesus. That's why it's called Ephesians. Here's what he says. So be careful how you live. Don't live like fools, but like those who are wise. Make the most of every opportunity in these evil days. Don't act thoughtlessly, but understand what the Lord wants you to do. Don't be drunk with wine because that will ruin your life. Instead, be filled with the Holy Spirit, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs among yourselves and making music to the Lord in your hearts. Very short passage that we're going to look at this morning. It's only five verses, but I believe that hidden in these verses right here, Miss Diane, is an incredibly new way to look at the idea of stewardship. And as we discuss stewardship all morning long, I want you to remember those two forms of currency you have in your life. Time and money. Stewardship is not only about money. It involves money. But the funny thing is, if it involves your time, it involves your money because money is related to time. And if it involves your money, it's related to time because time is involved with your money. It doesn't matter which way you slice it. You cannot separate two forms of currency. So let me give you your first blank this morning. It will be on the back of your bulletin. And then I want to go back and I want to unpack this section that we looked at. Here's your first blank. My lifestyle is a reflection of my faith. My lifestyle is a reflection of my faith. My lifestyle is a reflection of my faith. Now let's go back. Let's look at the first verse of what we just read. So this is Ephesians chapter 5, just verse 15. So be careful how you live. Stop. Let's talk about how they lived in the city of Ephesus. Because sometimes, in fact, as I was preparing for this morning's message, one of the commentary writers, he said, be careful. Sometimes when we look back and we read about biblical stories, we have this fun place in our mind that's called Bible land. And when you begin to read a Bible story, you're influenced by cartoons. You're influenced by any images that you have seen of Bible stories. So you may think all the people look like they looked in the Prince of Egypt. Or we watch a lot of Superbook with our kids. The reality is when you begin to, in your mind's eye, picture the Bible, we often have cartoon-colored glasses on. So I want to reestablish what the first century city of Ephesus was like. If you were to look it up on a map today, you would see that the modern-day city of Ephesus, or where we believe it is, is located about 20 miles from shore, 20 miles from the water. Why is that super important? Because Ephesus, even as far as it was away, was a major port city, just like Corinth was. There was a lot of trade going on. It was a hustle-bustle kind of place. Imagine what that is for you today. Is that New York? When I think hustle-bustle, I think New York. I grew up in the tri-state area, guilty. That's where I'm from. It's what I love. When I think of a busy city, there's a city that never sleeps for a reason, I think of New York. But I've lived in the South. I went to high school in Atlanta. Atlanta traffic. I hate it. So just pick your favorite busy city. Hustle-bustle of life. That's first century Ephesus. They did not have the swaggy throwback country life that some of the fishermen from Galilee had when we're in the Gospels. The city of Ephesus is a busy, thriving port city. Lots of business. Hustle-bustle. Things moving in and things moving out. And then we get to the Apostle Paul saying, so be careful how you live. Don't live like fools, but live like those who are wise. Trevor, what's the underlying statement that he's saying here? He's saying that I can define you as a fool or as someone who is wise by the way you live. Don't be, or be careful how you live. Don't live like fools. That means there is a definition of a fool that can be defined by a lifestyle. And likewise, there is a definition of a wise person that can be derived from their lifestyle. Now you also got to remember whenever you read scripture, who's the author and who's the audience? This letter is written to Christians. He's not writing to the total random populace that happens to be living in the city of Ephesus at the time. He is writing to Christians who live in the city of Ephesus. So whilst they are impacted and definitely driven by the hustle bustle of their city life, Nelson, these are also people of faith. He's not just talking to random Joe Schmo on the street corner. He's talking to those who are in the church that are believing in Jesus in Ephesus. Melissa, be careful how you live because your lifestyle reflects your faith. Don't live like fools, but live like those who are wise. Our lifestyle choices. Anybody ever heard the old school church used to say it this way? Watch out because you might ruin your witness, your reputation. How you live your life reflects on what you believe. If our faith in Jesus is no more than church deep, meaning our faith in Jesus doesn't transmit to Monday through Friday or Saturday, then our faith choices don't impact the way I live on Monday through Friday. If my faith choices are family deep, then that means I'm a Christian at home, but not at work and not at school. If my choices are lifestyle deep, then that means my faith transmits to wherever I go. When I'm with my family, I'm still a respectable Christian man. When I'm at work, I'm still a respectable Christian man. When I'm out in public at Target or Publix and someone cuts me off in the parking lot because they haven't figured out how to use a blinker, I still, Jesus, am a respectable. If your faith doesn't transmit to every... My wife's nodding. I am so... Okay, I gotta... Can we just pause for a minute? I will edit this out of the recording. I need to admit to you I am horrible at using a blinker. I am a hypocrite. I will own it. I am the worst at using blinkers. But you know what, Chris? You still get super irritated when people don't use their blinker. So I am the hypocrite that I talk about. Just being honest. Okay? Just leave it on. That's great. You know what? If I just left the blinker on, it would be right half the time. That's good. I like that. That's good. That explains a lot, right? But you know what? We all have different life choices. We have different families. We're in different stages of life. Do you think that absolves one group from the responsibility of carrying their faith with them? Trevor goes to school. Nelson goes to work. Does that mean that Nelson or Trevor has a greater responsibility to carry his faith where he goes? Or we just embrace the reality that Trevor's challenges to his faith are different from Nelson's? The challenges that you face in the stage of life you are in may not be unique to you. But the reality that your lifestyle automatically reflects what you believe in your faith is unique to all of us. So listen. First point this morning. My lifestyle is a reflection of my faith. Paul says, be careful how you live. Don't live like fools. Don't be a fool. I pity the fool. I got to put that in there. It was good. Don't live like fools, but live like those who are wise. Here's your second point this morning. Stewardship requires a conscious effort. Stewardship requires a conscious effort. Stewardship requires a conscious effort. Let's look at verse 16. The very next verse. The very next verse in our section this morning. Make the most of every opportunity in these evil days. Now I want to divide this in half. I want to tackle it two different ways. So first, remember that our whole talk about stewardship is time and money. Make the most of every opportunity. His audience lives in a hustle bustle city. At a pace probably not too dissimilar from ours. The pace of life in our country is pretty hectic. Even in our, I mean I wouldn't even call the Cape Coral, Fort Myers area like super urban. But we're not super slow either. You know, we're not the one horse town with the blinking traffic light. Like things can get pretty busy here. I know a few people that their schedules are just, whoo! Love that, been there. Sometimes life can get away from us. Paul encourages them and us, make the most of every opportunity. So let me say it to you this way. This is what I was doing. As I was writing my messages this week, Ms. Diane, I got to admit, I was getting very convicted and I asked myself, am I doing this, Doug? Do I make the most of every opportunity? So here's how I apply it to my life. Maybe it'll help you. You have 24 hours in a day. You hear people say that all the time. Everybody's got 24 hours a day. Well let's talk about those 24 hours a day. Let's say that you sleep like a normal human being and we'll give you 8 hours for sleep. 24 turns into 16. Now let's say you take a half hour for breakfast, a half hour for lunch, and an hour for dinner. 16, now minus 2 hours, down to 14. Now let's say you have to go to a job or school and you spend 8 hours a day in whatever that profession or student education is. 14 minus 8, now we're down to 6 hours. You see how fast? 24 hours a day becomes 6 hours of work. 24 hours a day becomes 6 hours of really disposable time. That's 6 hours when you're not on the clock, you're not in school, you're not sleeping, you're not eating. And you know what? I'll even give you an hour for shower and makeup a day. My makeup is very easy. So I grab my razor and go click, click, click, click, click, and I'm out. But ladies, I understand that sometimes getting ready can take some time. So I'll give you 5 hours a day, Melissa. 24 hours a day, you have 5 hours a day of disposable time. What are you doing with those 5 hours a day? Now some of you may have more than 5 hours. I'm just trying to give everybody an easy start. Of those 5 hours a day, how do you spend them? Right. How do you spend about an hour a day going over the bridge, getting to and from work? Well let me ask you a question. If you have 5 hours of disposable time a day, how much of those 5 hours do you give to God on a daily basis? That's tough. And I don't necessarily mean going to church every single day. I mean your personal relationship with God. If you have 5 hours of disposable time a day, 10% of 5 hours, 5 times 60 is 300, 10%, 30. That'd be 30 minutes. If you gave 10%, it'd still be only 30 minutes a day. Now if you say, whoa, 30 minutes a day in my Bible, that sounds like a lot. It's 10% of your disposable time. This is what I mean by make the most of every opportunity. Your opportunities are how much disposable time do we really have? And listen, Nelson, let me pick on you for a second. I know that you work a full-time job at the barbershop and you're starting your own company on the side. So you might have less disposable time than someone like Kevin and Lena who's on the beginning of retirement. I dig that. But when we talk about percentages, it's what equals the playing field. However much disposable time you have in your life, what are you doing with that time? Make the most of it. Make it the most beneficial, either for your physical life, your home life, your family life, those of you who are married, your marriage. It's important that you invest time in it. And then why? In these evil days. Let's talk about why are the days evil. Paul is talking in a first century audience, but the truth of the matter is still the same. Our world is fallen, right? Those of you who are in our Tuesday Night Bible study, we just looked at Adam and Eve in the fall in the garden. And earth was cursed because of Adam's sin. The world we live in is fallen. The things that the world wants to draw us to, to spend our time and our money in, are not God-glorifying activities. The thing that the world puts on a pedestal is self-pleasure, self-glorification, self-entertainment, not things that are spiritually beneficial. So when I say, make the most of every opportunity, again, who was Paul's audience? He was talking to Christians. So let's read it the way he would have intended it. And make the most of every opportunity for your spiritual benefit and the growth of the kingdom of God. That's really the subcontext of what he means. Make the most of every opportunity. If you have five hours of disposable time per day, what are you doing with it? Because let's be honest, what you do with it tells me a lot about your priorities. Once you get your own time, your disposable time, you spend most of your disposable time playing video games. Do you spend most, and I'm not pointing fingers, I'm not pointing fingers at anybody. Do you spend most of your disposable time binge watching on Netflix? No? Nobody? You don't gotta raise your hands. Listen, I love Netflix. I'm currently walking my way back through the old X-Files, having a blast. But what do you spend that disposable time on? Because what you invest that time on, those are your priorities. Just go back over the last two weeks and look at how you spent your time, and that tells me what the priorities are of your life. Because it's how you invested that resource of time. Here's your third blank this morning. I should measure my choices by God's Word. I should measure my choices by God's Word. I should measure my choices by God's Word. Let's look at the very next verse in our passage this morning. Don't act thoughtlessly, but understand what the Lord wants you to do. Don't act thoughtlessly, but understand what the Lord wants you to do. What he says is, he set up an either-or sentence. You see that, right? Don't do this, do this. But implied in that is either this or this. Don't act thoughtlessly. Well, if we are following our previous point that stewardship requires a conscious effort, then you will hopefully be doing the first half. Don't act thoughtlessly. Be cognizant of what you're doing. Don't let your mind shift into spiritual neutral, because the world is going to gravitate you away from God, not towards God. So don't act thoughtlessly, but what? Understand what the Lord wants you to do. One of the questions that I hear about the most frequently either because it's asked to me personally or I see it asked a lot is, what does God want from me? Kevin, what does God want from me? All of a sudden we've taken this big, massive creator of the universe, God, and we've made it uber-personal. What does God want from me personally? Not our church, not our country, not our nation, not our denomination, not our entire religion. Me. Just me. What does God want from me? That is a question that I hope that you have all asked yourselves at some point in your life. And even, even better, that you continually are asking yourself, what does God want from me? The recipe for not acting thoughtlessly is to act in accordance with what the Lord wants you to do. I.e. measure your actions against God's plan for your life, not your plan for your life. Because remember, stewardship's not ownership. We talked about that a few series ago when we talked about stewardship. Stewardship's not ownership. Your life really doesn't belong to you. The life you have has been loaned to you while you are on this earth, and you will give an account for that loan when we all get to Judgment Day. The very air I breathe and the life that I have is merely on loan from my Heavenly Father so that I can do something with it. Remember the parable of the talents? Real briefly. Three servants. They're given individual portions of money and they're not the same. One is given five, one is given three, and one is given one. Portions of money. They are then given an allotted amount of time to do something with that allotment, and they are then made to answer for what they have done. Your life is your allotment. How you spend your time and money in your life will be the ultimate act of stewardship that we all have to answer for. Melissa, when you stand before the throne of God and you have to answer for how you spent your time and how you spent your money, I will not be there to protect you. I will not be there to say, but God, God, you don't understand. She was really awesome in Bible study on Tuesday. I don't know if you get that, and I'm not just picking on Melissa because she is really awesome in Bible study on Tuesdays, but we will all stand before the throne of judgment by ourselves. It is a single, solo activity, and we will answer for the stewardship of our entire life. Bill, I gave you X years on this planet. In addition to those X years, I gave you Y talents. I gave you Z wife and A and B kids. What did you do with that which I gave you? That will ultimately be the question that we are all faced with. If we want to do well, you remember the parable of the talents, two servants heard what? Well done, my good and faithful servant. If you want to hear that, then we must give an account. You better get an idea of what the guy we have to answer to, what his priorities are. Because he is who we answer to for our loan. What is God's priority? What does the Lord want me to do? That means we should be measuring our choices according to God's word. God wants me to do A, and I choose B. That is a less than godly standard. However that applies to your life. We all have different faith challenges. I recognize that. But we will all answer for our stewardship the same way. Ms. Anne, you have been given X number of years, Y skills, and Z family. What does that recipe mean for how you have worked it? Ms. Diane, you have been given X years, Y skills, and Z family. How does that answer for you and the way you have lived your life? How does that answer for me, my wife, Jill, and I could point out every one of us, and ask the same question. What does the Lord want you to do? Because I guarantee you one thing. If you do what the Lord wants you to do, you will be a way better steward than if you don't. Isn't that kind of simple logic? If I daily go back to the word of God and say, Lord, am I doing what you want me to do, or am I doing what I want me to do? And I continually default to the Lord's plan for my life. Understand what the Lord wants you to do. You are going to end up in a way better situation when it comes to the stewardship of your life. Here is your fourth blank this morning. And there is no easy way to say this one. Chasing temporary pleasure will never satisfy. Chasing temporary pleasure will never satisfy. This next verse is just straight truth. Take a look at this. This is Ephesians chapter, the first part of verse 18. Don't be drunk with wine, because it will ruin your life. Don't be drunk with wine, because it will ruin your life. Now, we need again to talk culturally. Put yourself in the first century. Wine, majority, was one of the number one things they had to drink. Why? Because the alcohol kills the bacteria. So, what does this verse not say? All alcohol is evil. That is not this verse. That is nowhere in this verse. That is an incorrect way of reading it. Don't be drunk with wine. Let's talk about drunk first. Drunk in the first century means the same thing it means today. If you are physically inebriated by the alcohol, if your senses are dulled, your reaction is dulled, that's drunk. Like, drunk means the same thing it does today. If you're an ingrown, that's drunk. Don't be drunk with wine. Does that mean it's okay to be drunk with tequila? No! Let's just get that in there. Make sure, no. That's not just because that doesn't have the bartender's list. It doesn't need to say, don't be drunk with wine, beer, scotch, vodka, Jack, Jim, John, Johnny Redd. I don't need to make the bartender's list to get the point here, right? Bianca, don't be drunk with, and I could have just put alcohol. All alcohol would fit. And I would even take that a step further. Any outside chemical put in the body that causes inebriation would fit in the context of this verse. Why? Because it will ruin your life. Why does chasing after that ruin your life? And that's really what it means. In the New Testament, when we refer to somebody as drunk, Kevin, we're not referring to their state as much as their continued activity. You know what I mean? We're not talking about, oh, I was drunk one time. When you call someone a drunk, even in our vernacular today, to call someone a drunk is they have established a pattern of over drinking consistently, not a singular moment of overindulgence. We're talking about a habit. What is that habit? That habit is chasing after fleeting temporary pleasures that will never satisfy on the long term, because by definition they're temporary. And yet so much of our society today touts the glory of temporary pleasures, chasing after temporary highs, temporary pleasures. You want to know my honest reason? I think narcissism has a lot to do with it, but I think there's an even bigger spiritual game at play. If the enemy can distract you with temporary pleasure, you become ineffective in the long term battle for the kingdom of God, because you're not concerning yourself with the long term victory of God's kingdom. You're concerning yourself with the short term pleasure of your own life. I really think that's the big spiritual gain that the enemy has played on us as a species. He distracts us by the temporary short term pleasure, and we don't see the long term plan that God has for each one of us. Don't be drunk with wine, because it will ruin your life. Life spent chasing temporary pleasures always ends in depression, because you chased after something that wasn't real, it wasn't tangible. It's not like it stacks up. It's not like it has, has anybody ever heard the term cumulative value? It's a business term, cumulative value. The value of small things built up over time is the cumulative value. There is no cumulative value in temporary pleasures. It's pleasure, and then it's gone. And then you chase the next one, and it's gone. And if you are talking honestly with anybody who's ever been down any one of those rabbit holes of temporary pleasure, I tell you it's like a spiral. You need more and more and more and more and more, deeper and deeper, because your thirst and your lust for whatever that object or that pleasure is only increases. And it becomes so insatiable that you can take in 200% more of whatever it was, and it still does not give you the high that the first time did. And that's the big lie, that you can chase it and chase it and chase like chasing the white rabbit. You never catch it. You just end up further down the rabbit hole. And then all of a sudden you wake up one day and you look up and you have no idea how you got to where you are. Because you chased an intangible thirst, an inclinable desire, because that's what sin really is. Sin gives no benefit, no long-term benefit to your life. A life spent chasing pleasure ends in ruin. It ends in depression, especially those who've ever had someone you know who battled with substance addiction. It can affect your relationships. It can destroy families. It can ruin things forever because you were chasing the pony more than you were chasing whatever it was in your life that you needed to be after. This is stewardship in a very real sense. Because how we spend our time and our money is our stewardship to God. Here's your final blank this morning. Talked a lot about what not to do. Here's the big hitter. Worshipping God should be my priority. Worshipping God should be my priority. Let's look at the way the Apostle Paul ends our section this morning. He just said, by the way, don't be drunk with wine because that will ruin your life. And this is what he says. Instead, here's the alternative to ruining your life by chasing temporary pleasures. Instead, be filled with the Holy Spirit singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs among yourselves and making music to the Lord in your hearts. This is a two-part worship recipe. I want you to see this. First, be filled with the Holy Spirit. You cannot truly worship God without first submitting to his Savior and being indwelt with the Holy Spirit. Just period. Be filled with the Holy Spirit and then look, sing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Look at this. Among yourselves. This is one of the biggest keys to worship that people miss. Here's among yourselves and then here's in your hearts. Among yourselves, in your hearts. The two biggest phrases out of this verse. What does it mean? Nelson, worship should be in your individual life and in your corporate church life. There are two different ways to worship God. One, sing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs among yourselves. That word is plural. That word automatically implies who is his audience. Christians in Ephesus. He's talking about being involved in worship at church. Church attendance. I know I hear people say all the time, yes, I'm a Christian, but no, I don't go to church. Then I say you are automatically an unhealthy Christian on a biblical standard. You cannot be healthy in your spiritual life and not be connected to the rest of the spiritual body. It's just a misnomer. It's a lie. And unfortunately, it's a lie that sells really well in our country. Sells super well. I totally believe in Jesus, but I don't go to church. Then that means you totally want fire insurance, but you're not willing to give your life to God and follow his word. That's what that attitude really means. So look at what he says here. In order to avoid a life of ruin, chasing temporary pleasures, be filled with the Holy Spirit, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs among yourselves, i.e. worship God together with other believers in church. Second, and make music to the Lord in your hearts. This is obviously personal. Sean, what goes on in your heart is personal. It's just between you and God. Paul's illustrating here the dual nature of worship. We should both be worshiping God together in church and, Ms. Lena, alone in your private time with the Lord. There should be worship together as a corporate body and in my individual life when it's just me and God. It requires both halves of the worship scale, the worship coin, to be spiritually fulfilled and healthy. Why do I see people that say, I went to church and it really didn't change my life? I can attend a car show every single week. It doesn't make me a stunt driver. There are some things that must be done on the individual basis before you truly get the full spiritual benefit. So let me go back to how I started the message this morning. How you use your time and money in this life is stewardship. So let me ask, how are you using your time and money to worship God, both in the corporate life of the church and in your personal time with God? That's just you and God. Married couples, I would almost say, and in your marriage, since you and your husband or you and your wife together are one. How do you use your time and your money as a steward of those resources? In a moment, I'm going to ask the ushers to come up and take this morning's offering. I'm just going to mix the close of my message and my giving talk all in one thing, because this message is on stewardship. It makes a point. Stewardship should be driven from a heart of worship, not a heart of guilt. I don't give God my time because I'm trading him my time on this earth for an eternity without hell later. It's not a transaction. It's not a negotiation. It's not a negotiation. Okay, I'm going to go to church every Sunday. I'll go to Bible study twice a week and I'll read my Bible five times a week. How does that get me? Like this is not a negotiation. Stewardship should be done from a heart of worship. God, I'm going to dedicate Sundays to you because I love you. God, I'm going to learn how to study your word because I want to know more about you. You see the heart difference there? There's a heart change in worship that should be driving the stewardship of both your time and your money. So here's the clue, and I apologize if this hurts. What does your life over the past two weeks say about your faith? The old adage, if your life was a silent movie, would you still be a Christian? What does your life over the past two weeks say about your faith? How much time, your disposable time over the last two weeks have you given to the Lord, i.e. in your personal life and in being a part of the church life? Bible study, personal prayer, reading his word, fellowshipping with other believers. How much money have you given to the Lord in the last two weeks, i.e. tithes and offerings to a church, personally supporting a missionary, you and your wife choosing to bless another family. Those are all things that honor God with your finances. Not only talking about the money that came into our individual personal church, talking about the global effort for the kingdom of God. In the past two weeks, how much time and money have you given to God? Valentine's Day is coming up. So let me frame my clothes this way. Most of us who are either married or have been involved in romantic relationships, when do you start planning for Valentine's Day? Men, none of you say anything. You've already started, of course. Let me save you the trouble. Husbands, boyfriends, you've already started, of course you have. Don't let the cat out the bag for everybody else. When do you start planning for Valentine's Day? Well, in the typical relationship, you start thinking about what am I going to do? Valentine's Day, are we going to go out to dinner? Am I going to get her a gift? What are we going to do? You start planning weeks in advance. You start maybe pulling a little bit of extra money out of each paycheck. I'm getting everybody in trouble, I know. Just follow me. Because why? Because when the time comes, when the day comes, I need my money and my time to show how important my Valentine is to me. So I spend time and I prepare my money in advance so I can show my Valentine how important they are to me. Now, what's sad is most people when they come to church and we start talking about giving and giving finances, Doug, the response I get is, well, let me see what I got extra. Let me see what, you know what, yeah, I'm not doing anything this Tuesday. I'll go to Bible study, but I may not be able to go all the time. Or you know what, here, I got a couple extra dollars in my wallet. Let me put that in the offering plate this week. That treats God way more like the bum on the street than your Valentine. Think about it. When you're in your car and you stop the stoplight and you see somebody there with one of those signs, you immediately look around your car. You may not even reach across the car to find your purse or your wallet. What's immediately around me? Okay, I've got a couple spare change. Hey, honey, do you have a spare dollar? What was that dollar from McDonald's? Well, look for whatever's immediately available and I'll give it to him because as soon as I drive by him, he no longer matters. That's the difference between planning to give your time and money to God and simply going, what do I have that's extra? What can I spare? What can I not inconvenience myself with and still give something to God? One is when you prepare for your Valentine, that's part of desire. When you just look for the spare change that might have happened to have been on your car or the floor when you pulled into church, that's just the heart of getting by. I don't want to be seen in church being the one person who doesn't give. So I'll grab these coins off my floor or I'll grab these dollars out of my purse. What am I saying? Stewardship should be thought out. Stewardship should be planned. You should want and have a plan and a desire. Kevin, I know Sunday's coming. I'm going to give this time to God. I'm going to allot this much of my finances to God because I want to worship him with both my time and my money because I'm a good steward. Do you treat God like a Valentine or a vagamond? That's a tough close. I wrote that and I went, I don't know if I can say that. But that's the truth of a life of stewardship. Last two weeks of your life, has God been your Valentine or has he been the vagabond? Don't answer. Just think to yourself. Be honest in your own mind. Has God been your Valentine or has he been the vagabond on the street? Living a life of stewardship is all about making choices to put priorities in order. Now, you may be sitting here this morning and go, dang, I didn't grab anything off my car floor to give to God. I'm not just talking about your money. We started this morning's message. I'm also talking about your time. Do you allot time during the week to spend time with God? Do you allot time during the week to interface with other Christians? Or do you just check off the Sunday morning box that said, yep, I went to church, I'm good. Next Sunday, I'll get my refill, like gas station. I'll get my gas filled up and then I'll move on. Having a life of stewardship is putting worshipping God in the forefront of your choices all the time. And yes, maybe that means I have dedicated X dollars of my pay to the Lord. So that means I can't take my family to XYZ restaurant. We'll go here instead. Yes, that's exactly what I mean. That God is important in your finances that you plan for Him like you would plan for Valentine's Day. You don't just go, oh, okay, God, yeah, that's what I got. You know what would happen on Valentine's Day if you did that on Valentine's Day? Honey, you know what? I bought you this flower because I had this couple extra chains left from the toll and the bridge. You're not going to keep your Valentine's very well. Plan ahead to give God your time and your money.