This morning we are going to really do part two of last week's message. We're in a series entitled the Kings of Gold Hall of Heroes. Every summer here at C3 we take a walk through a character-based study of the Bible. The first Hall of Heroes was the major leaders of Old Testament Israel. Second Hall of Heroes we looked at women of the Bible. This year we are looking at the first three kings of the nation of Israel in the Old Testament. Who was the first king of Israel? We talked about him for a couple weeks. Saul, that's correct. Then the Lord's power left Saul and who became the next king of Israel? David. And then David's going to have a son in a couple of chapters and his name is Solomon. So Saul, then David, then Solomon. They are the first three kings of the nation of Israel. If you look at the back of your bulletin it's got some blanks on it that look a lot like this. What I'm gonna ask you to do as we go along this morning I'm gonna ask you to just fill in those blanks. And if you also turn in your Bibles with me to 1 Samuel chapter 17. First Samuel, and again I forgot to update that part. It really is chapter 17. We're going to begin reading at verse 32. That is the correct text. So I just forgot to update the actual text in the beginning. We're going to look at 1 Samuel chapter 17. We're going to read from verse 32 to verse 58, basically closing out the chapter. Last week we looked at the beginning of David's conflict with Goliath and we saw Saul's failure as the king. This week with that as our frame and as our context we're actually going to look at David's encounter and engagement with Goliath. So it is 1 Samuel chapter 17. We're going to begin reading at verse 32 and I have it here for you on the screen in the New Living Translation. So 1 Samuel chapter 17 beginning in verse 32 in the NLT. This is what it reads. Don't worry about this Philistine, David told Saul. I'll go fight him. Don't be ridiculous, Saul replied. There's no way you could fight this Philistine and possibly win. You're only a boy and he's been a man of war since his youth. But David persisted. Saul finally consented. Alright, go ahead he said. And may the Lord be with you. Then Saul gave David his own armor, a bronze helmet and a coat of mail. David put it on, strapped a sword over it and took a step or two to see what it was like for he had never worn such things before. I can't go in these, he protested to Saul. I'm not used to them. So David took them off again. He picked up five smooth stones from a stream and put them in his shepherd's bag. Then armed only with his shepherd's staff and a sling, he started across the valley to fight the Philistine. Goliath walked out to David with his shield bearer ahead of him, sneering in contempt at this ruddy-faced boy. Am I a dog? he roared at David. Did you come at me with a stick? And he cursed David by the names of his gods. Come over here and I'll give your flesh to the birds and wild animals, Goliath yelled. David replied to the Philistine. You come at me with swords, spear and javelin, but I come at you in the name of the Lord of Heaven's armies, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied. Today the Lord will conquer you and I will kill you and cut off your head. And then I will give the dead bodies of your men to the birds and wild animals. And the whole world will know that there is a God in Israel. And everyone assembled here will know that the Lord rescues his people, not with sword and spear. This is the Lord's battle and he will give you to us. As Goliath moved closer to attack, David quickly ran out to meet him. Reaching into his shepherd's bag and taking out a stone, he hurled it with his sling and hit the Philistine in the forehead. The stone sank in and Goliath stumbled and fell face down on the ground. So David triumphed over the Philistine with only a sling and a stone, for he had no sword. Then David ran over and pulled Goliath's sword from its sheath. David used it to kill him and cut off his head. When the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they turned and ran. The men of Israel and Judah gave a great shout of triumph and rushed after the Philistines, chasing them as far as Gath and the gates of Ekron. The bodies of the dead and wounded Philistines were strewn all along the road from Shariam as far as Gath and Ekron. Then the Israelite army returned and plundered the deserted Philistine camp. David took the Philistines head to Jerusalem, but he stored the man's armor in his own tent. As Saul watched David go out to fight the Philistine, he asked Abner, the commander of his army, Abner, whose son is this young man? I really don't know, Abner declared. We'll find out who he is, the king told him. As soon as David returned from killing Goliath, Abner brought him into Saul, and the Philistines head was still in his hand. Tell me about your father, young man, Saul said. And David replied, His name is Jesse, and we live in Bethlehem. Now like I said, all that we looked at last week in the Goliath moment part one really sets up everything we look at this week. So let me go ahead and give you your first blank this morning, and then I want to go back through and sort of break that scripture down. So here's your first blank this morning. God prepared David in private. God prepared David in private. God prepared David in private. Now let's go back to the beginning of our text and take a look at it. So we saw last week, David was sent out from his father, Jesse, to the battleground, and everybody remembers this scene, right? You've got the Israelite army encamped on a hill over here. You've got the Philistine army encamped on a hill over here, and there is a valley between them. And because of the ancient rules of warfare at this time, Goliath was chosen as the champion of the Philistines, which means only Goliath had to fight. And if he won, all of the Philistine army would have won the battle. Likewise, Goliath was taunting and waiting for a champion from the Israelites. Does anybody remember how long they had been there before David showed up? Forty days. Hoorah. Gold star for you. You get another piece of bacon. That was good. Look at that. Now I actually have rewards to give out. Good job, Abby. See, now all of a sudden, everybody's going to start paying attention when I say stuff. Giving out bacon for church. That's right. They've been there 40 days, and Jesse sent David to go check on his three older brothers. David hears Goliath's taunt, and here we pick it up. He goes to Saul. Don't worry about this Philistine. I'll go fight him. Don't be ridiculous, Saul replied. There's no way you could fight this Philistine and possibly win. The next sentence has something really cool in Hebrew that you might miss in English. Look at this. You're only a boy, and he's been a man of war since his youth. Now in English, those words are two different words. In Hebrew, they are not. They're the same exact word. Saul's making a pun. He's going, listen, you're just a boy. He's been a warrior since he was your age, since he was a boy. Saul is making a pun and trying to point out the clear distinction that there's no way David should be able to fight Goliath when David is just a boy, and Goliath's been a warrior since he was a boy. We sort of miss a little bit of that symmetry, but in Hebrew, that word is exactly the same word. So clearly we can see Saul didn't really think this was a great idea. Now remember, Nelson, it's Saul's failure. Saul was supposed to fight Goliath. He was supposed to be the man who would lead his nation in battle. And here we have Saul doubting that David is capable, but David is not doubting. Look at David's opening line here. Don't worry about this Philistine. David is not only ready to fight Goliath, but Ali, David's not worried about it. Don't worry. I got this. Yeah, let me go handle your light work real quick. Let me go take care of this Goliath. Let me go handle your light work. And the reason that David is convinced that he can do this is what God has all brought him through that no one else knows about yet. The excuse or the reason he's about to give for why he is so confident is what we see here. Saul points out, listen, Saul's again, remember Saul's looking with his natural eyes, his human eyes. The Spirit of God has left Saul. He's no longer God's anointed. He's only looking at what he can see in the physical realm. And Saul's like, this is just no match up. He's this gigantic man with a ton of military war experience. You're a shepherd. Like, you're a shepherd. Why are you here? Why do you think you can? I have an entire army of people who are afraid of this guy. And here you walk in and you think you can do it. And then David persists and this is what he says, I have been taking care of my father's sheep. Probably the best line that David uses this entire text. Why? You guys remember David has already been anointed, right? We looked at that a few weeks ago. But when Samuel came to anoint David, Samuel never mentioned the word king. Remember, Samuel set up a sacrifice. He invited Jesse's family to the sacrifice. It's really only Samuel that knows that David is the next king of Israel. He didn't mention it to Jesse. It doesn't show that he mentioned it to David. Even though when we looked at the anointing of Saul, Samuel told Saul, clear out. The Lord has chosen you to be king of his people. He didn't say anything about that to David. Arguably, David doesn't know yet he's been anointed to be king. He's been anointed. He clearly has God's power. But he doesn't necessarily know the reason why he has God's power yet. And his training to become the king of Israel is caring for his father's sheep. Now I find that interesting because when we get to the New Testament, Jesus refers to the people of God as my father's sheep. David the shepherd goes to defend the flock of God, which at this point in the biblical time period is the nation of Israel. He's still shepherding his father's sheep. He may not necessarily know yet that he's meant to be king, but he understands. Why am I ready to fight Goliath? Uh-oh. Why am I ready to fight Goliath? Because I know how to shepherd my father's sheep. And look at what he says here. When a lion or bear comes to steal a lamb from the flock, I go after it with a club. I go after it with a club and I beat it down. Give me a favor. Take me to the next slide. So David is prepared to fight Goliath in a very private manner when he is taking care of his father's sheep. Now a shepherd is not normally a violent person, right? We don't think of a shepherd the same way we think of a warrior. A shepherd only gets violent when it's time for protection, not for domination. Goliath is, you remember Goliath's taunt, right? If I defeat you, you will be our slaves. But if you can defeat me, we will be your slaves. Goliath's entire motivation is military. It's political. David's motivation is not political. It's not military. He sees someone defying the living God. He sees a predator threatening God's sheep. And he goes, I can do that. I've been doing this. What? I just got to go take care of somebody threatening some sheep? I can handle this. And then he uses this answer. Now you got to keep in mind, David is most likely a young man. I don't want to say he's necessarily, he's probably in his late teenage years, possibly early 20s. But since he's not married yet, anything north of 22 is really out of the question. So he's, let's put it between 14 and 20. He's somewhere in the realm of 14 to 20. And he says this, if the animal turns on me, I catch it by the jaw and I club it to death. Abby, how old are you? How would you feel about going into the lion cage at the zoo with nothing but a stick? Like, sometimes, you know, Ali, sometimes we get drawn into over-spiritualizing things. David is probably one of the most iconic characters to come out of the New Testament or the Old Testament. And we can get drawn into the idea of over-spiritualizing this David and Goliath moment. Please do not think for a moment that David is chasing down a lion who has one of its sheep in his jaws with a shepherd's crook in his hand, not even a sword, not even a military weapon. It's a protective shepherding weapon. And he's not chasing it down, going, God, thank you so much for the opportunity to fight this lion barehanded with no steel weaponry. God, Holy Spirit, thank you that you must be preparing me for greater things. No, he's just doing the job at hand. But do you find it interesting that he could have just left the sheep? Kind of ironic in the New Testament, he left the 99 to go after the one. Jesus is the fulfillment of the good shepherd. Here we get a kind of a foreshadow of it. David left the sheep in the field to go over the one that had been taken, and he rescues the sheep from the lion or the bear with nothing but some wooden tools. And that level of courage and truthfully that level of dedication, he could have just let the lion have one and still kept all the rest of them safe. And then when his boss comes and he goes, hey, how come I'm missing a sheep? Well, a lion took one of them, so I moved all the others to keep them safe. Sounds pretty normal. If I had 100 sheep, okay, well, I got 99. That's not so bad. I only lost one. But David doesn't see it that way. David saw each individual sheep as worth protecting to the point that he goes up against a lion with nothing but a club. In fact, we were watching the Superbook cartoon at home with our children of this particular story. And I got to say the animators of Superbook are really good with their details. David ends up grabbing the lamb, and he hides behind a larger rock where he puts the lamb to keep it safe. When the lion jumps over the rock to try to eat, to get the lamb, David reaches up, grabs it by the mane, and bam, and hits it. And I thought, how amazing that the animators thought to be that scriptural with actually having him grasp the hair of the animal as he swung to hit it. But this is, I don't want you to over-spiritualize his preparation here. David knew God would rescue him from Goliath because God had already rescued him from the sheep and the bear. The question is, why? Why did God rescue David from the lion and the bear? Because he was doing the job the Lord anointed him to do, which was protection, protecting his sheep. And we'll see that in a minute. Go ahead and take me to the next slide, please. Here's your next blank. David trusted God in public. God prepared David in private, but David trusts God in public. David trusted God in public. Let's go back into our text, pick it up at verse 33. So David just tells Saul that I've beaten down lions and bears with a club. So Saul goes, okay, let me give you my armor, a bronze helmet and a coat of mail. David put it on, strapped the sword over it, and he took a step or two to see what it was like, for he had never worn such things before. Again, we talked about the fact that you don't truly see David's victory until you see Saul's failure. What is Saul trusting in to win this battle? Man-made tools of war, his armor. Remember last week we looked at all the description of Goliath's armor, and it was shiny bronze, and he had these leg plates and this chest plate, and he had somebody pouring him with a shield. It made a big deal out of his armor. Why? Because that's all that Goliath has to trust in. Goliath does not represent the living God. Saul is doing the same thing. He's trusting in these man-made apparatuses of war, and David's going, but I didn't have any of that when I did what God told me to do. And so David tries out the different armor, and he goes, I can't wear this. I'm not, I love this, I'm not used to them. These are not for me. You can't win a battle fighting and pretending to be someone you're not. David knows that if it was God who brought him through these other prepared situations, that it is God who will bring him through in the same manner in which he'd already done. I don't need to pretend to be someone I'm not to experience victory from God. David knows if God has brought me through, God will bring me through. That's enough. And so he gives up on all of the armor, and then he picks up five smooth stones from a stream and puts them in his shepherd bag. Now, in my research, I have found a lot of people trying to read into, why five stones? Why take five stones? And I've actually seen a lot of different sermons by pastors who try to come up with what the five stones represent. Let me give you the blatantly honest truth. There is no biblical definition for what the five stones represent. They're not representative of the gifts of the Spirit. They're not representative of the spiritual power of the five stones. They're not representative of the gifts of the Spirit. They're not representative of certain character attributes. They're just five stones. Now, you may see that and find meaning in it, but don't think that just because you found meaning in it that that means what it means. What it is is the most logical answer for why did he grab a couple of different stones is what if he missed on his first shot? He, guarding his sheep, would have probably gotten very, very, very good. But if he had only picked up one stone, then of course we're going to read into that. He was so super confident. He was arrogant. Remember, his brothers already called him prideful. Is there a reason he picked up five stones? Yes, Miss Diane, because he picked up five stones. There's not something super spiritual analogous that should be in there. He just picks up the stones. But we're also given a second detail about the stones. He picked up smooth stones. Now, here's a good reason. Why pick up smooth stones? They're in the middle of a valley. There's got to be rocky stones all over the place. Why pick up smooth stones? Yeah, less wind resistance, less drag. And if there's less drag, they also curve less in midair. Think about a bullet when it comes out of the rifling of a gun. It spins. Why do we put that spin on a rifle? Because it curves less in midair. David knew enough about how to use his shepherding tools, and I call them tools, not necessarily weapons, even though a sling was a very dominant, powerful weapon in the day. In fact, the sling and the javelin are the artillery of this day. The sword and the spear are the infantry weaponry of the day. But the javelin was thrown, and the sling could be thrown. They're more long-distance weapons. David knows enough about his tools to go to the riverbed to get the smooth stones to fight Goliath. Why? Because he needs to be accurate. David's battle strategy is seen in what he selects. He chooses these smooth stones because he knows from his experience – remember, God has already prepared David for the day – he knows from his experience that the smooth stone is going to travel faster, it's going to be more accurate, and he'll then hit his target better if he does this. The fact that he chose five stones, just skip it. But the fact that he chose smooth stones from the stream or the riverbed, that's so much more of an important detail because it reminds us God prepared David for this day. This is not a random happenstance. God has already anointed David to be the new king. But then David put him in the opportunity and gave him the faith within him that said, no, I'm not going to bow down to this pagan guy who's insulting my God. Have you ever considered the fact that the difficult and rough and tumble and stressful and hard situations that you have been through have merely been preparation for what the Lord is going to have you be able to do? But now let me put the shoe on the other foot. Nelson, what if David had never gone after the lion? What if he just let the sheep go? What if he'd never gone after the bear? He would not be ready for this engagement. He wouldn't have the knowledge of the smooth stones. He wouldn't have the confidence to stand in front of the king of his nation, who none of their warriors want to face Goliath. But God had prepared David in advance in a private manner, and here David fights publicly and stands up for God himself. Let me give you your third blank this morning. David fought for God's glory. David fought for God's glory. Pick it back up at verse 41. I know, I know the story. Goliath walked out towards David with his shield bearer ahead of him, sneering in contempt, am I a dog? I think it's really funny. Just stop there for a minute. Put the picture in your mind. David, a smaller, younger, much less battle-ridden guy, he's a shepherd, he's walking out there with a wooden shepherd staff. Now, we don't necessarily know that he's already got the sling in his hand, because Goliath notices the stick, not the sling. What Goliath points out is, am I a dog, you're coming to me with a stick? But how interesting. David's preparation for fighting Goliath was dealing with predatory animals, and the analogy that Goliath uses about himself is a predatory animal. Wild dogs were just as much of a predatory animal to shepherds as were lions and bears. Goliath even calls himself the same thing that David already knew he was, a nuisance predatory animal threatening God's sheep. So he wrote to David, did you come at me with a stick? And then he cursed David by the names of his gods. Now, that's why it's lowercase G. These are not big G, this is not God Almighty. These are the pagan gods that the Philistines would worship. And then Goliath issues another taunt. Remember, we talked about the fact that in this time period, there's a whole lot of beating of the chest and trash talking before any actual fighting ever happens. For 40 days, these two nations have been on sides of a valley just spouting trash at one another, just yelling at each other. And then here, Goliath comes out, am I a dog, did you come at me with a stick? Come over here, I will give your flesh to the birds and the wild animals. Basically, come over here, I'm going to kill you. Not only am I going to kill you, I'm going to kill you and leave you here to rot, which would be very disgraceful in the ancient times. It was important to have an honorable burial. So what Goliath is saying is, I am not only going to kill you, I am going to leave your body to rot in disgrace. It's just putting insult to injury and expounding the amount of trash talking that Goliath is doing. And then here comes David. You come at me with swords, spear, and javelin, but I come at you in the name of the Lord of Heaven's armies. Stop. Why is the word army pluralized? You notice that? But I come at you in the name of the Lord of Heaven's armies, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you defeated. Now I looked it up, Jonathan, it's pluralized in the Hebrew. It's not one singular army. Yet David is only standing on the battlefield with one singular army. Who's the other army mentioned? No, the tribes are united as one nation. So they're referred to as only one army. David understands there is a spiritual value to this battle. This is the heavenly host of armies. Remember David? He already said, I'm coming at you in the name of the Lord. He's not defeating a Philistine because he wants political power. He is defeating someone who's standing up against God's authority. And in that moment, in that vein, Melissa, David understands this is a spiritual conflict that's being fought out in the physical plane. These people are abstaining from or even rejecting God's very authority. And I am going to face you not with the weapons of war of our day, but I face you with angels at my sides because this is about God's glory, not man's political schemes. Goliath was fighting for politics. David was fighting for God's glory. Another thing I think is really neat about this particular passage. Goliath walked out towards David. That word walked literally means stood up or rose up. Now, Goliath is about to face David directly. But I just think it's so interesting that as, no, no, sorry, I'm getting ahead of myself. Slide down. Goliath walked out towards David with his shield bearer in front of him. So here comes Goliath, already this dominant, gigantic military soldier, with another guy in front of him carrying a shield, even more metal armor. And here's David in his simple shepherd outfit with a stick. I mean, yes, it's a very nice stick, probably a very heavy stick, but it's still a stick. And he's facing someone covered in metal armor. Remember last week we described all the different bronze armor? He's facing someone covered in metal. It'd be like trying to have a fight with someone covered in Kevlar when you're carrying a plastic kitchen knife. It seems so impossible for David to be the victor. It's so slanted because we're only seeing it in the natural. We're seeing it the way Saul saw it. We're seeing it the way all the Philistines saw it. But David understands this is not just a physical battle. This is a spiritual battle as well. Give me my next slide, please. Look what he says. Today the Lord will conquer you and I will kill you. David did not need to win the battle. He just had to finish the fight. He knew the Lord was going to win this battle. Why? Because Goliath had stood up and defied the authority of God. And that's something that David's just not going to put up with. Yet so many times today we think, oh, I'm not going to worry about it. The Lord's going to just handle that for me. The Lord's going to do that. Oh, that's the Lord's job. I don't need to do anything. Here David has a very different view. He says the Lord will conquer you and I'll kill you. David does not absolve himself for responsibility because he is acting in faith. He merely sees his responsibility as an action of his faith. David doesn't assume just because the Lord is going to work that I don't have a job. No, I have a job because the Lord is going to work. Right? Just on that for a minute. I have a job because the Lord is going to work. That's the way he sees it. And then I will kill you and cut off your head and I will give the dead bodies of you and your men. So David takes Goliath's taunt and jacks it up a notch for the birds and the animals. The whole world will know. And here is why David faces this battle right here. The whole world will know that there is a God in Israel. And he rescues his people not with sword and spear. That's why David didn't need the armor. He had the spirit of the living God. He had already been anointed by God. The Lord's power was already on him. We already saw that too. When they were looking for Saul, he needed the musician. Remember? They called David to him. And when David would play, Saul would be ministered to by the spirit of God. David has the single greatest weapon that he needs to face Goliath. And it's not made of metal. And it's not made of wood. And it's not made of leather. It's not made of anything on this earth. David knows he fights for the living God. And that's enough. In the face of this had to be gargantuan guy, huge, intimidating metal armor, his spear was 25 pounds by itself. I mean David's young, but he probably only weighs like a buck 20 soaking wet. And I mean the match up of these two, that's why so many people love this story. Even the term David and Goliath, it's almost a cultural term now. You don't even have to be a Christian to understand the idea of David versus Goliath. We understand small who should never defeat big and yet somehow miraculously does. Well David understands from the get go, and this is why he goes in there. So that everyone assembled here will know the Lord rescues his people, not with sword and spear. This is the Lord's battle, which is why he refers to the armies. David understands there is an angelic force that works for God's will. And he understands with them at his back, he doesn't need the armor and the spear and the sword of Saul and everything else. Take a look at blank number four this morning. David's victory was Israel's victory. David's victory was Israel's victory. David's victory was Israel's victory. Let's pick it back up in verse 48. As Goliath moved closer to attack, David quickly ran out to meet him. Now this is the point that I was starting to make earlier. This word here, Goliath moved closer. Last point we already saw, he's walking towards David. Here that word moved closer, it means that he rose up, i.e. he took on his battle stance. He got ready for the fight. Have you ever noticed boxers right before a boxing match, they start limbering up their shoulders, they start bound, they get there. Why? They're preparing for battle. He rose up. That doesn't mean that he was sitting. We just saw a few verses ago, he's already walking towards David. It's not a matter of he physically got up. It's a matter of he's getting in his mode, he's getting in his zone. That's he's preparing for battle. As Goliath prepares for battle, David quickly ran out to meet him. The word quickly there, ran, literally means hurried in an excited fashion. David not only knew he was going to win, he was ready faster than Goliath. Let's get it on. I already know I'm going to win. There's no time to wait. There's no reason to wait. There's no reason to stall or procrastinate. And he reaches into his shepherd's bag, takes out one stone, hurls it with his sling and hits Goliath right in the forehead. Now, super important to understand armor of their day. When you think of people in metal armor, generally we think of the more Arthurian knights in shining armor who have their whole faces covered with the big thing that comes down and only a slit. Do you know why they wore that kind of armor in their day? Because they jousted. And when the things would hit, they would splinter, and the splinters could poke out your eyes. So that's not the right picture of armor for this time period. The only thing they would be getting in their eyes at this point would have been dirt. So his helmet protects his head, his cranium, probably the back of his neck. But there's no covering on his face. Why? Because he needs his eyes. I mean, they're literally still fighting hand to hand. Yeah, he might have thrown his spear, but he only had one. I mean, his javelin. He only threw it. It's not like he's carrying a quiver full of javelins and he's just like... He's only got one. After you spend your one long-distance weapon, everything else is close combat. Everything else is right here. You don't want anything impeding your vision if you have to fight hand to hand, because you need to use all of your peripheral vision to see what your opponent is doing. David maximizes Goliath's weakness. He sees his whole face. I mean, it's like just putting a big disc right around a target. There's nothing protecting his face. And so David, as Goliath is limbering up and he's stretching, he's like, okay, I'm going to hit him with my right hand, breathe. David's getting ready. He's doing it. Or Goliath's getting ready for everything else. David just goes for it. He's like, his own! And with one step, slings that sling, and he hits Goliath right in the one place that he's unprotected. All of those verses last week we looked at that touted about Goliath's armor and how shiny it was and how many pieces it was, and he's got somebody else carrying his shield, and with one hit, David hits him where he's unprotected. His face. Because he needed his face in order to fight close-quarter combat. David's not stupid. He had a plan from... I believe David had a plan from before he went to speak to Saul, but you don't really see it in the text until he chooses not to carry all the armor. Why? Because he knew he was going to blitz him. What did he do? Dan, when he put on all of Saul's armor, what did he do to test it, to know if he could do it? He took a couple steps. He tried it out. He went, no, I'm not used to this. Why? Because David knew, I'm going to blitz him. I'm going to hit him right in the head with this stone, and it's going to be done and over with. Because keep in mind, what was David's taunt? David went back and he said, the Lord will defeat you, but I'm going to kill you. So he bumrushes, he rushes out, reaching to his shepherd's bag. He grabs the stone, he hits him in the head, and then he goes over to Goliath and cuts his head off with his own weapon, nonetheless. Because David's not carrying a sword. He's not carrying a blade. They said he has a shepherd's staff, which is pretty much a really, really strong piece of wood, and he's got a sling. He has nothing to cut with. So he goes over to Goliath, pulls out Goliath's sword from his own sheath, and chops his head off. Take me to my next slide, please. When the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they turned and ran. Now, they obviously forgot about the deal that Goliath made, right? They probably forgot that they were supposed to become Israel's slaves because David won the battle. Why? Because they were so confident and trusting in the wrong things that when things didn't go their way, they run in fear. They were so confident in what they knew was right, that as soon as that got challenged, they run in fear. Then the men of Israel and Judah gave a great shout of triumph and rushed after the Philistines. Chasing them as far as Gath and the gates of Ekron, and yeah, they just have a heyday slaughtering everybody. The very taunt that Goliath gave to David ended up becoming the judgment that Israel doled out onto the Philistines. All of their bodies were the ones that were left out. Your fifth blank this morning, and this is probably the most confusing part of this chapter. David's victory blessed his family. David's victory blessed his family. Let's look at the last couple of verses, 55 to 58. As Saul watched David go out to fight the Philistine, he asked Abner, commander of his army, Abner, whose son is this young man? I really don't know. Well, find out who he is. Stop. This, what you are looking at on your screen right here, this selection of scripture, is actually in two different time periods. And that's part of why the end of this chapter is really weird to figure out what does it really mean. Take a look at this from, as Saul, all the way out to the king told him. If you were to draw a line right here, in fact if you have a physical Bible, you can put a line right there. Everything from here before happens before David faces Goliath. Because he said, as Saul watched David go out to fight the Philistine. So everything from as Saul all the way to told him is actually happening before the rest of the chapter, chronologically. And then here, David returned happens after the fight. So the first part of this text happens chronologically before everything that we just read about David fighting Goliath. The latter happens after. So then you got to ask yourself, why are they put together? Because they both teach the same thing. Abner, whose son is this young man? Now so many people read this and they go, well obviously David didn't know Saul. Well that can't be true. How do we know it can't be true? Because for the last several chapters we've seen that when Saul was tormented by that evil spirit, his servant said, hey wait a minute, I know a guy, like I love, hey I know a guy. I know a guy who has a kid who plays really well. The spirit of God works on him. So then they called David to Saul. Then Saul sent word to Jesse going, Jesse, can you please leave your son here with me? I love him. Saul even made David his armor bearer. The idea that Saul doesn't know David doesn't track with the rest of this book. So then why is Saul asking who David is? It's a misnomer. Fred, he's not asking who David is. Look at his question again. And Abner, whose son is this young man? Saul is not asking about David's identity. He is asking about Jesse's identity. And that's one of the keys to understanding the last part of this chapter. You have to understand, Saul and David have a pre-established relationship. Scripture says Saul loved David. The idea that Saul all of a sudden went, whoop, totally forgot about somebody that he loves. Someone he cared enough about to make him his own armor bearer. Doesn't track with the rest of the book. That's why it's so important you read big passages of Scripture at one time to make sure that the conclusions you're drawing match everything. Saul knows who David is. Saul's just a little unsure about who his daddy is. And he said, whose son is this young man? Then as David returned from killing Goliath, Abner brought Saul to him, the Philistines head. And what does Saul say? Tell me about your father. Saul is not asking about David's identity. He is asking about David's family's identity. Why is that important? What did Saul offer to the man who killed Goliath? His daughter as a wife, and you done said it, no more taxes. Praise Jesus, that's right. All of a sudden no more taxes. Not just for David, for his whole family. That's why Saul is asking who this is. Because Saul now has to make good on his promise. Whoever the father of David is, is the father-in-law of his daughter. That whole family is now exempt from taxes because David won the battle. Saul is not asking about David's identity because he doesn't know who he is. Saul is asking about his father's identity because Saul now has to deliver on the promise that he made which was, whoever defeats Goliath gets my daughter as a bride, which by the way makes you the king's son-in-law. That's a very influential position. That means David's father is now technically the father-in-law of the daughter of the king. His daughter Michael is now going to be related to David's father Jesse. This is why Saul is interested in this identity question. It has nothing to do with the fact that Saul doesn't know David. It has everything to do with what Saul has already promised to the victor of defeating Goliath. He's going to get his daughter as a bride and he's going to get no more taxes for his entire family. But here's what's interesting. Saul made the offer of no more taxes before anyone had volunteered for the job. So here's the catch. Miranda, Saul's just now finding out how much tax revenue he's going to lose. Because since we didn't know who was going to fight Goliath, you have no idea. Did I just lose the tax revenue from one of the wealthiest families in Israel? Or is this sort of a lower middle income family where it's not really going to hurt my budget too much? Even in the midst of one of the greatest victories in all of the Old Testament, Saul is being selfish. I mean it's just, again, to truly see the victory of David you have to see how far Saul has fallen off his horse. Saul is interested in his tax revenues, not the fact that, oh, by the way, we all don't have to be slaves to a pagan nation anymore. David's victory is even more magnified in the face of Saul's selfishness. Saul's finding out who is David's father because Saul now has to deliver on that promise. He's got to hand his daughter over and keep in mind, marriage in the Old Testament, when you transfer to a new family, you're not really related to your old family anymore. That's why we, even in our modern marriage ceremonies, in the very beginning of the wedding ceremony, when I'm standing up there with the guy and he's usually pretty nervous, and so we're cracking, ladies, of course, it's completely honorable, but normally we're up there and we're cracking jokes and I'm trying to calm him down. Because he's sweating bullets, especially if there's a wardrobe malfunction and we've got to fix a dress or somebody's heel breaks. I mean, all those kinds of things happen in the morning of a wedding. But if the bride does not come down the aisle at the exact second that the groom is expecting to see her, he's all of a sudden, he's starting to sweat, he's starting to perspire. I had a groom one time go, is it cool to smoke at an altar? Like he's a smoker and he's all of a sudden getting nervous and he's like, dude, can I smoke next to you? Like, is that a problem? Why is all, okay, comical, but why is that important? Because do you know what the first thing I have to say in a wedding ceremony is? Who gives this woman to be married to this man? And typically it's the father of the bride or someone standing in for the father of the bride who will say, her mother and I do. That's still, that modern, is a modern vestige of what's happening here. Saul's about to give away his daughter to Jesse and his family. He's going to lose his daughter and he's going to lose a certain amount of tax revenue. And here in the face, Jonathan, of one of the greatest victories in all of ancient Israel, the king is still me focused. He's not God focused. Whereas David walked into that battle going, the Lord of Heaven's armies is going to smack you down, son. And Saul is still only interested, yeah, that's the new international bill version. That's my modern translation of what David said. I'm going to smack you down with God, boy. And yet all Saul can do is be interested in what he has to lose, what he has to give up. I know a lot of people at this point would want to allegorize facing your own, you know, I've heard so many times, facing your giant, whatever the giant is in your life. And that superpreaches really well, it truly does. But I want to point out something different. You have a choice to respond to God in your life with an attitude or with a Saul attitude. David's attitude put God first, put God's agenda first, put God's glory first. Even in his own peril, David walked in against a fully armed, trained man of war with a stick. Now it's not a twig, but it's definitely not metal armor. It's Kevlar against a plastic butter knife for sure. But that attitude, that confidence that says that which God has brought me through will carry me on, that's the kind of confidence. That's what we should take away from the David and Goliath story. We have all had our own bumps and bruises and stumbles and sacrifices and those teary nights of prayer. We have lived them. Don't ignore them. The trials that the Lord has brought you through are merely the training for that which we will face together. And this is the point where a lot of people go, if that was the training, I think I'm going to sit out or whatever's coming next. No. What you have to understand is if you truly believe that it's the Lord who's carried you through, then it's the Lord who continues to carry you on. Like we don't just all of a sudden think, Dan, that God brought me through the last two years, but whoop! I messed up somewhere and all of a sudden God doesn't care about me anymore and all of my mistakes are my own fault. And we can become so inward focused in our Christianity. We can become so selfish. We can become so, what is it going to cost me? Do I have to give up my daughter? Am I going to lose my tax revenue? Me, me, I, me, me, me. That's a Saul attitude, not a David attitude. What we need to be living is the David attitude that evaluates the situation, not based on what it's going to cost me or what I will gain for it, but the situation as it applies to my God, my Savior, and my King. And on that basis, decide whether the battle is worth fighting. Be a David in your attitude of faith, not a Saul.