We are continuing our feast of Thanks series good timing Nico awesome. We're continuing our feast of thanks series in preparation for Thanksgiving Which if you did not know Thanksgiving is this coming Thursday. So hopefully That doesn't catch you by surprise. It does come every year But Thanksgiving is this Thursday and a lot of us Well, and I'm not gonna ask you show of hands, but mentally I tell you what how about this show of eyes Eyebrows so that you don't feel like you're you're giving yourself away I'm the only one looking at their wealth by show of raised eyebrows How many people may have a tendency to overeat on Thanksgiving? Mm-hmm. Uh-huh part of the way we celebrate Thanksgiving in our country is eating and I'm good at eating I'm trying to lose weight because I'm so good at eating and on a on a holiday like Thanksgiving when Half the things on our family's table are covered in marshmallows and sugar and Carbs and I love love love Freshly sliced roasted turkey I could eat it all day and then we eat and then we just pretty much leave it all out And deviled eggs because then you have your turkey sandwiches like three hours after Thanksgiving dinner I thought it would be fun to go back and look at some of the declared feasts and Festivals in the Old Testament now there are three major annual festivals That the Lord requires his people to celebrate We have already talked about one of them. What is one of the annual festivals? Come on, sir. Come on him. What is one of the annual festivals required by the Jews to celebrate? Just give me one Okay, the Sabbath is the only weekly required. That's correct Passover is one of the required festivals. What's another one? Pentecost that's correct. We're the feast of weeks. That's we're gonna talk about today. And what's the third one? The feast of tabernacles, that's correct last week. We talked about The Passover the week before that we looked at the Sabbath Sabbath really is kind of the center It brings everything together because all these other festivals happen on or around Sabbaths So last week we talked about Passover this week. We are going to explore the feast of Pentecost it is also known as the feast of weeks Pentecost or the feast of weeks now if you have your Bibles with you this morning whether they're physical or digital Please turn or click with me to the book of Leviticus Genesis Exodus Leviticus third book in the Bible Leviticus chapter 23 and the primary text for our message this morning is going to be verses 15-22 of Leviticus 23 So Leviticus 23 I'm going to begin reading in verse 15 and we'll have it for you here on the screen in the new living Translation. Here's what it says Leviticus 23 starting in verse 15 From the day after the Sabbath the day you bring the bundle of grain to be lifted up as a special offering count off seven full weeks Keep counting until the day after the seventh Sabbath fifty days later Then present an offering of new grain to the Lord from wherever you live bring two loaves of bread To be lifted up before the Lord as a special offering Make these loaves from four quarts of choice flour and bake them with yeast They will be an offering to the Lord from the first of your crops along with the bread present Seven one year old male lambs with no defects one young bull and two Rams as burnt offerings to the Lord these burnt offerings together with the grain offerings and liquid offerings will be a special gift a pleasing aroma to the Lord Then you must offer one male goat as a sin offering and Two one year old male lambs as a peace offering The priest will lift up the two lambs as a special offering to the Lord together with the loaves Representing the first of your crops these offerings which are holy to the Lord belong to the priests That same day will be proclaimed an official day for holy Assembly a day on which you do no ordinary work This is a permanent law for you And it must be observed from generation to generation wherever you live when you harvest the crops of your land Do not harvest the grain along the edges of your fields and do not pick up what the harvesters drop Leave it for the poor and the foreigners living among you. I am the Lord your God That was the last bit of it right yes, okay. Good morning, sir. Good to see you The Feast of Weeks and we're gonna get into Pentecost and why we call it that this is the primary foundation This is the installation of the Feast of Weeks Which we have now come to call Pentecost in the Old Testament What I want to do is I want to break this down a little bit and sort of try to give you the overview Not only of what is the Feast of Weeks all about but Why miss Diane why is it important for us today? We don't live under the law We said that at the beginning of this series We are not required to live under the Jewish law and yet we should also say in the very next breath that miss Julie the Old Testament is still probative and valuable for us to study today, so By the way, I don't have a bulletin could I have one I? Completely forgot to grab one thanks, bro all right if you'll notice on the back of your bulletin looks a lot like this one It's got some blanks on it. I would love to ask you to follow along with me today Even if you want to leave your bulletin here You will learn more just combining the auditory tactile and visual learning skills, so here's your first blank this morning I want to try to explain what this Feast of Weeks where we call Pentecost is and then hopefully when we get to the end I'll explain why it's important, so here's your first blank Pentecost is 50 days after Passover Pentecost is 50 days after Passover 50 days after you need a new pen sir all right Jonathan you got a spare pen Kevin's Kevin's getting duced out on the pens here Pentecost is 50 days after is that one better No, you're just having really bad luck We're getting low on pens okay, then we'll need to get some new pens Yeah, oh Wow mine's dead too I add that to the junkie pile Lick it I Don't need to write I got it. I got the notes Yeah, I got all the fill-ins there they're right here on this Fancy dancy screen all right so Pentecost is 50 days after Passover now let's go back into our text look at verses 15 and 16 a so 15 and 16 a here's what it says From the day after the Sabbath and then here the day you bring the bundle of grain lifted up as a special offering stop What day is that remember last week we talked about Passover was actually three completely separate events Combined into one week do you remember which event is it where they bring the bundle of grain to be lifted up as a special offering? Ma'am first what? First fruits that's exactly right the presentation of the first fruits, and what was it? What was what was lifted up? Grain that's right the first sheave or bundle of grain That was cut from the field was to be brought to the priests and to be lifted up as a grain offering From that day you count off seven full weeks Terry you you have a tendency to be good at math What's seven times seven plus one? Okay, I know that's super simple math Okay, I know that's super simple math But everybody sees how that works if there are seven days in a week which there were seven days in the Jewish week There's seven days in our week. There's seven days to a week plus one extra day That's how you get to 50 days keep counting until the evening after the seventh Sabbath 50 days later now What's unique about the Feast of Weeks or Pentecost is it's one of the few feasts in the Old Testament That doesn't have a singularly defined Date Now we have several holidays on our calendar that aren't on a specific date when is Christmas of You're sure it's all the time it never changes. What about Independence Day our National Independence Day? July the fourth it never changes, right? What about Labor Day? It changes the dates right, but it's still a consistent place when is Labor Day the first Monday of September now whilst that's not a specific date and the date for Labor Day changes from from year to year We still celebrate think about a sort of like a flex holiday unlike Christmas and Trying to think of other other flex Easter. Well, here's a great one. Let's take a sidebar for a second I'll delete this out of the recording. Does anyone know how to know when Easter Sunday is? You want to know it is the first Sunday after the spring equinox It's the first full Sunday if you might want to check it I'm pretty sure that's what it is now that I've said it I'm questioning myself But I remember that the date for Easter is calculated off the equinox Does anybody know what the equinox is? Okay, you get the idea that there are 12 There's 24 hours in a day sunrises the Sun falls Sunrises the Sun falls but you know that the days are shorter in the winter and they're longer in the summer There's two moments in the year when there's exactly 12 hours of day and 12 hours of night One of them is in the spring. It's called the spring equinox The other is in the fall and it's called the fall equinox Well the spring equinox or what I believe is also called the vernal Ver and al the vernal equinox keep in mind we're living if we're reading this miss Diane and we're in this time We live a lot of our life based off of seasons Seasons are governed by the Sun by the length of days. So Easter is actually the first Sunday after the vernal equinox That's why it flexes every year unlike Independence Day Christmas I can't think of any other holidays that have to be on a specific date Christmas and that Christmas and Fourth of July were the only two I could think of didn't miss one Halloween thank you Halloween is always on the same date but Memorial Day flexes st. Patrick's Day flexes So Pentecost is one of those flex holidays It occurs 50 days after the grain offering of first fruits in the midst of Passover Now this is not just a calendaring issue Jose you can't fully grasp and understand the beauty of the day Beauty of Pentecost until you understand its dependence on Passover. It's not just a date Yes The Lord set it up this way But he set it up this way and by opinion on purpose because as we go through this what you're gonna see is you can only Truly understand the feast of weeks if you understand it in relation to that which it is dependent on which is the first fruits not just all of Passover But really the first fruits is what it's calculated off of so your first blank Pentecost is 50 days after Passover Cute little piece of knowledge. Does anyone know what the word Pentecost means? 50 It's the Greek word for 50 Interesting little tidbit Pente Pente five cost day Pentecost 50 days. So that's where we get the word Pentecost from That's what Pentecost technically isn't a Jewish term. It's a Greek term But yet by the New Testament they were calling the feast of weeks Pentecost when we get to Acts chapter 2 we'll talk about that in a minute. So first blank Pentecost is 50 days after Passover second blank The new grain was now presented as bread the new grain was now presented as bread The new grain was now presented as bread Let's take a look at the latter half of verse 16 and then verse 17 from our text Then present an offering of new grain to the Lord stop 50 days before this right Nico we cut the first sheaves of grain and brought it I'm gonna sneeze Yeah, excuse me and brought it to the Lord Here's something that you probably wouldn't know unless you looked it up the type of grain Presented at the first fruit offering 50 days ago is not the same type of grain That is now presented at the feast of weeks One was the barley harvest The second is the wheat harvest. That's why we say here new grain. You see this present an offering of the new grain This is not the same stuff that we just cut out of our fields 50 days ago This is a new crop first was the barley harvest Second was the wheat harvest and here we are not bringing the cut sheave of grain Like we did with the barley harvest. What are we doing with it wherever you live? We're threshing it down. We're mixing it and we're baking it into bread Which is then presented as an offering again so super important that we look at Weeks through the lens of first fruits here We have the presentation of the new grain the new harvest first. It was barley now It's wheat we have the new wheat harvest being presented But rather than it just being presented in the same fashion we could have just cut up a sheaf be like, yo God Here's your here's your new harvest. That's not what the Lord wanted He wanted it baked into bread and even gave these instructions Four quarts of choice. I would really love to know how much bread that makes is anybody bake Does anybody know how much four quarts of flour makes into bread? Are we talking like a sit? So if these if these four quarts of bread are baked into two loaves they're Significant loaves. They're not like a hoagie roll Yeah, I just I'm not a baker I and What's that I'm not a baker I'm an eater I'm not a lover on the fighter. I'm not a cook around me neither as as my size evidence as well So you take these four? Quartz I mean as a significant amount of flour four quarts of choice flour and bake them with yeast another thing here This is the only offering ever brought to the Lord that has yeast in it Only one in all of scripture where the Lord commands his bread to be made with yeast That's exactly I'm gonna get to the why Fredo. Just give me a minute. I'm spinning here, bro I promise it'll make sense in the end, but I wanted to point that out This is the only time in recorded scripture that the Lord commands the offering to be brought with yeast Remember 50 days ago. There was an entire week with no yeast Now here this is the wheat harvest not the barley and now for choice of our victim with yeast They will being offering to the Lord from the First of your crops. That's why again. It's the first of the crop We did first fruits 50 days ago. That was the first of the barley. We're doing first again But this time it's the first of the wheat that makes sense to everybody. All right It's the first of the wheat that makes sense to everybody. All right third blank this morning sin and peace offerings were made at Pentecost sin and peace offerings were made at Pentecost we'll keep going. Let's look verses 19 and 20 a from our text sin and peace offerings were made at Pentecost Here we go 19 and 20 a then you must offer one male goat as a sin offering and Two one year old male lambs as a peace offering The priests will lift up the two lambs as a special offering to the Lord together with the loaves representing the first of your crops Now There are multiple types of offerings in the Old Testament. There were grain offerings There were wine offerings that were poured out there was oil that was poured out But there were also offerings for specific purposes and this is what we see here the first you must offer one male goat as a sin Offering, what do you think a sin offering does? What's a sin offering like what? Yes, it's a cleansing offering it gets a great word covering cleansing. I love that. They're both C words. You guys should preach together That's awesome the cleansing the covering of sin these remember Genesis tells us there's I mean Hebrews tells us that there is no forgiveness of sin without the shedding of blood The sin offering was offered on behalf of a family for the forgiveness of sin. The next one is the peace Offering what do you think a peace offering is for? It is to invite or entreat the Lord's peace in one's home and in one's life for the coming year a sin offering asks for forgiveness a Peace offering asks for peace does that make sense? sin offering equals forgiveness peace offering equals peace both of these offerings are presented along with the bread Along with the bread that we just baked out of those four quarts of flour I want to go get four quarts of flour and bake them into two Giant loaves of bread just so I can see how big these things really are Because then my problem is I'm gonna need about a gallon and a half of butter and just That's not a problem so I can eat butter by the gallon I have approval to eat, but I love you It's totally okay to eat butter in gallon chunks. All right, so sin offerings and peace offerings are now both made Take a look at your fourth blank Provision for poor and foreign people Was made provision for poor and Foreign people was made Provision for four important poor and foreign people was made take a look at verse 20 B and 22 These offerings which are holy to the Lord belong to the priests the same day will be proclaimed as an official day of holy assembly a day on which you do no ordinary work do you hear that phrase coming up again and again no ordinary work Why is God so clear that on the Sabbath and on these required annual festivals that there is to be no ordinary work Why is God so clear that on the Sabbath and on these required annual festivals that there is to be no ordinary? work Because these days are set aside and created for God to be the focus of man's attention It's not enough to just worship God and then go back to your regularly scheduled programming and pick up your NASCAR your football Or what have you the point of these days was that there was no ordinary work to be done This is a permanent law for you it must be observed from generation to generation wherever you live Kevin It's not only so much that you are to make God the focus of your day You are to teach your children to teach their children and so on and so forth Generationally Jonathan that God is the focus of our life on this day And we show that by baking of the bread the presentation of the peace and the sin and everything else give me the next one When you harvest the crops from your land Do not harvest the grain along the edges of your field and do not pick up what the harvesters drop Leave it for the poor and the foreigners living among you. I am the Lord your God Me and your five-minute moments this week I entitled this particular day old Testament welfare Old Testament welfare even in the beginning of the Old Testament in Leviticus 23 God was providing for those who are unable to provide for themselves God was making a way for those who did not have the money or were alien or foreign your translation They say or alien alien not meaning Star Trek but alien meaning alien to that area the foreigners in your land and the poor needed provision to So do me a favor don't harvest now. This does seem a little Backwards if you will for some of our American business mentality that you know You should increase productivity and create these profitability and should collect everything you grow and blah blah blah this kind of Against that mentality of well god. I worked hard for it. Why shouldn't I collect everything I earned? what Do they really? Really No way well, that's cool That still happens wow that's so cool to see people still do that and they do it for the purpose for others for others to have Wow, that's so super cool. I never would have known that So I'm not going to be able to do that. I'm going to be able to do that I'm going to be able to do that Wow, that's so super cool I never would have known that so i've never really been in the midwest, but that's exactly the point Here in leviticus 23 and apparently in the midwest till today The point was to provide for those who were unable to provide for themselves either because they were Monetarily unable or because they were foreigners and they weren't really connected to society That's right and david david was a With his mighty men did the same thing it was additional provision That was and and one could argue that it's sort of like our Paying taxes today is that is taken out of our provision and used to provide for others But the point that I want you to see in this feast of weeks is that not only are we presenting the bread? Not only are we presenting the sin offering and the peace offering not only are we 50 days dependent on Passover but that technically God has also made a provision for other people Who are either poor or foreigners through this? Agricultural practice that he set in place. Don't forget the verse right before this said This is a permanent law for you from generation to generation So this would have been their their agricultural practice from then on in order to follow Here's your last blank. Let me tie all this together for you. Some of you may already be there. Please Try to let me make try to let me impress you. All right the church was born at pentacost The church was born at pentacost Now before I read you our last scripture section, I just want you to understand How this how this symmetry works? the story of joseph where the book of genesis ends Brings the children of israel to egypt Then 400 years go by and what happens they get enslaved A pharaoh who knew nothing of joseph the bible says and they get enslaved Then a young boy is born and floated down the river in a reed basket and raised in pharaoh's household. What's his name? moses moses leads the children of israel miraculously through god's provisional and and Supernatural power out of egypt across the red sea to the foot of mount sinai When he climbs mount sinai and comes down with the law That is the beginning of the nation of israel The nation of israel is not born till the law at sinai We went into egypt a family the family of jacob joseph and his brothers and his father They go into egypt a family they come out of egypt as Foreigners as redeemed slaves. They are a nation When the law is given at sinai the new testament Antithesis of that or the other book end so to speak Is the church the church that we are a part of today is born at pentacost in x chapter 2 Jesus came in the gospels Jesus came moses is obviously a foreshadowing of a redeemer Jesus comes does his ministry through the gospel to a lost and hurting people He dies on the cross to supernaturally redeem his people and then there's a waiting period in the middle And then at pentacost when the holy spirit comes down That's when the church is born just like at sinai when the law came down The nation of israel was born that makes sense Now, let's take a look at the symmetry. You can see they're on your notes What I am about to read for you is x chapter 1 Verse 4 verse 5 verse 8 and then chapter 2 verses 1 through 12 I've put it all together so I can read it straight because I want you to see how this plays out thematically So this is x 1 chapter 4 5 or verses 4 5 8 and then 2 1 through 12. Here's how it reads That one's got to shine on it Once he jesus was eating with them He commanded them do not leave jerusalem until the father sends you the gift he promised as I told you before John baptized with water But in just a few days You will be baptized with the holy spirit You will receive power when the holy spirit comes upon you and you will be my witnesses Telling people about me everywhere in jerusalem throughout judaea in samaria and to the ends of the earth On the day of pentacost all the believers were meeting together in one place Suddenly there was a sound from heaven like a roaring of a mighty windstorm and it filled the house where they were sitting Then what looked like flames or tongues of fire appeared and settled on each of them And everyone present was filled with the holy spirit and began speaking in other languages as the holy spirit gave them this ability At that time there were devout jews from every nation living in jerusalem when they heard the loud noise Everyone came running and they were bewildered to hear their own languages being spoken by the believers They were completely amazed. How can this be they exclaimed? These people are from galilee and yet we hear them speaking in our own native languages Here we are parthians meads elamites people from mesopotamia judaea capardosia pontus the province of aja frigia panphilia egypt And the areas of libya around sirene visitors from rome both jews and converts to judaism cretins and arabs And we all hear these people speaking in our own languages about the wonderful things god has done They stood there amazed and perplexed What can this mean? They asked each other That is the birth of the christian church At the feast of weeks which by the time we get to the new testament is called pentacost or 50 Why is it so important to understand? Well, there's a few things And really you don't even have to leave this screen You saw earlier jesus was very clear. Don't leave in essence what he was saying. Miss diane was Don't go anywhere Until I give you the tools to do the job I have trained you To tell people about me But I have not given you the final tool that you will need which is the empowerment of the holy spirit So he tells his disciples don't go nowhere as yet Stay go into jerusalem and wait Then here's a question How come all of these different people are in jerusalem? Think it through Everything we've talked about so far Why are all why are these jewish people from all of these different areas in jerusalem on the day of pentacost? No, say it again julie It was the law Remember we said there are three required festivals and that requirement required them to be in jerusalem God was setting it up all the way back in leviticus 23. They were required now Yes, there probably was a decent amount of commerce going on but jonathan they were required by the law Remember he said this is a permanent law for you. It will be from generation to generation They were required to be in the city of jerusalem, which is why you see Barthians means elonites people from esopotamia judaea caprodotia pontus asia phrygia pamphylia egypt libya sirene rome cretins arabs They're all in jerusalem because the law Required them to bring what? The two loaves of bread that they made from the four courts of flour The peace offering and the sin offering they're all there doing the same thing A day of holy assembly with no ordinary work and then boom This tornado-like sound Appears in the middle of the city And this small group of outcast people who are hanging out in an upper room Praying and worshiping god, which is what they should be doing on that day. No ordinary work It was a day to be focused on god And the holy spirit comes down And the church is born the same way That god himself delivered the the the law to moses and the children of israel are born Remember I told you That the bread that we bring at pentacost Is a different grain Than the bread that was bought at first fruits. In fact fred wanted to know why two different grains Let me put it to you this way at the day of pentacost Salvation was no longer offered to just the barley harvest the wheat harvest is now included When the church was born Gentiles got included in god's salvific plan We now have the joining of the two different crops. Remember the feast of first fruits Jesus was the first fruit. He was the first to be resurrected into new life Now 50 days later That resurrection is now baked and ready to be presented to god and the church of jesus christ The bride is born in miraculous fashion. Sin is now forgiven Peace is now accessible to all people through jesus the symbols That lay out the celebration of pentacost The baking of the bread now with yeast Yeast as we talked about was sin. What was sin in the old testament being with gentile? God said no, no, no, no, no, the yeast is now a part of this offering The gentiles are going to be a part of my plan The barley was for a time Jesus did most of his ministry to jews It's only to the very end of the gospel of john that we even see greeks seeking an audience with jesus In my opinion, that's one of the reasons jesus knew his time hadn't come yet Because the greeks the gentiles weren't seeking knowledge from him towards the end of the gospel of john We have a small glimpse that there were greeks. There were gentiles seeking to hear jesus teach Then jesus is crucified if you look at acts chapter one jesus in his crucified resurrected body teaches his disciples for 40 days after easter sunday 40 days after easter sunday Then he says Go wait in jerusalem. So those of you who are good at math Jesus re Jesus is raised to life at the day of first fruits when the grain is held up before god Jesus is resurrected on the day of first fruits. He teaches his disciples for 40 days How long between the ascension of jesus and the falling of the holy spirit somebody do the math? 10 days That's exactly right Jesus is is presented as the first fruit i.e the first resurrection on resurrection sunday He teaches his disciples for 40 days and he says well don't go anywhere Wait in jerusalem. How did he know they would be in jerusalem? Because the law as julie pointed out required them to be in jerusalem They had to be for the feast of weeks for tap for pentacos. They had to be there Then in miraculous fashion he goes wait a minute god i'm gonna give you a gift I'm gonna give you the holy spirit that will enable you to do it and now we see all this stuff wrapped up That which was just a harvest a single sheave originally in the first fruit. Jesus the only one resurrected Now resurrection and newness of life is available not just to jews But to gentiles what is the point of pentacost? Nico, can you back me up two slides, please? What's the point nope one more And one more i want to get to what jesus said to his disciples Yes right here Do not leave jerusalem until the father sends you the gift he promised as i told you before John baptized with water but just in a few days you will be baptized You will receive power when the holy spirit comes upon you Holy spirit comes upon you and right here From this this sentence right here is probably the single most theologically important sentence to understanding Not only the mission of jesus, but all of pentacost And you will be my witnesses telling people about me everywhere in jerusalem They didn't have to go everywhere for the message of jesus to be spread everywhere Because god had already made it so everywhere came to jerusalem everywhere Was there already? Look at all the the the frees and the elamites and the caprodotia and rome They're all collected in jerusalem Ready to go now did the disciples know that it was going to go down like that. No is diane probably not The disciples are humans just like us. They're not omnipresent But what was the point of all of this? And you will be my witnesses What the what the celebration of weeks and pentacost should remind us and why it's reliant on Passover Is because of Passover There is a pentacost Because of jesus There is a mission to be a witness Yes That's why pentacost is important Not just because it's when the holy spirit came down and when the supernatural gifts happened in the church and yes, that's a very Fine and intelligent conversation to have but the supernatural gifts of the holy spirit mean nothing if they are not for the purpose of spreading the gospel They are not for the purpose of making people rich. They are not for the purpose of making one believer more important than another believer All of that was for that sentence right there and you will be my witnesses Telling people about me everywhere in jerusalem throughout judaea samaria to the ends of the earth What does jerusalem judaea samaria the ends of the earth signify? It's it's concentric circles jerusalem the gospel first came to the jewish people judaea That then spread to the area around them samaria to the area around them to the ends of the earth everybody the whole point Of celebrating the feast of weeks of celebrating pentacost Of the the bread now being baked with yeast of the peace of the sin Is all because god knew then in idyllic is 23 That the church of jesus christ which we are a part of Would be born on that very day 50 days after What we call resurrection sunday is actually the day of the offering of first fruits And the first fruit the first grain that was now lifted up 50 days later now Rises into two loaves because technically when the church was born there was the jewish church and the gentile church And they were trying to figure out how to work out work it out Like you look at axe and there's some different jerry springer moments in there where they're trying to figure out how to do it But the point is they're now one they're now brought together That's why pentacost is important The question that I have for you Is in order to celebrate and truly live A pentacost life in your heart What part of your life Is dependent and contingent? upon jesus's resurrection What part of the decision-making process for the way you live your life is dependent? On the resurrection of the savior all of pentacost was dependent on Passover We as the church of jesus christ who were born at pentacost should also be dependent on the crucifixion and resurrection of jesus that happened at Passover So what does the question what does the crucifixion and resurrection do in your life? Is it just the reason you come to church on sunday? Is it just the reason that you could pull out your wallet and you have your non-smoking section id card to get into heaven? And not go to hell or does the resurrection of jesus change the way you live? Does it change the way you speak to your children? This is a permanent law pass it down from generation to generation Do you live in such a way that you pass on faith to those who are around you? Or is the resurrection of jesus just the reason you call yourself a christian because at the end of the day if i'm wrong I don't want to go to hell Like is it fire insurance? Or is it truly a permanent law on your heart that you pass on to your children? In the way that they pass it on to their children. It's one thing to tell your child a story It's another thing to tell your child that it's their job to tell their child the same story One thing to teach a kid. It's another thing to turn that kid into a disciple My son already understands that it's his job to tell other people about jesus He may not understand how to do that yet Yes, terry there needs to be teaching and training and development and all those kinds of things But at the end of the day the mission is being a witness And that's what pentecost is all about That you take up the mantle to be a witness in your life because I am a witness because i've been forgiven Because of Passover I can be a pentecost witness