All right this morning we will be continuing our in his hands Series in his hands finding peace in the shepherds Security if you've not been here for every week of this series, that's fine Every message does stand on its own, but they all do go together to also sort of look at the whole text What we've been doing is we've been exploring psalm 23. You may be familiar with psalm 23. It is probably Dan I'll say psalm 23 if it's not the most popular passage from the Bible It's got to be up there. It's got to be right next to and then God said let there be light Most people if you said the Lord is my shepherd I shall they could finish that sentence even if they don't go to church Even even if they don't go to church we have a cultural Understanding of this psalm just because it's been out there long enough, but then Lynette there's a danger with that Sometimes you can become so used to hearing something like I'll let you know Abby you want to know a detail? Do you know the one part of the year that I feared the most as a pastor? From a from a from a teaching perspective. Do you know the time of the year? That's the hardest for me anybody want to guess? Yes, say it again Abby Christmas, you know why? Because you know what's coming Everybody knows the story right and in that day there was the caesar augustus declared there would be a census And you know everybody's heard this story miss josephine we read it every year and yet every year I have to crack my noodle and come up with what's a new way to present the christmas story in a way that's culturally relevant Hopefully someone will accept jesus like it's a real challenge Christmas is a tough one, but I have to say this passage and this particular study Has been the most enjoyable for me all year long I loved going back and looking at David and Solomon, but there's just something about the psalms I think it's the wishy-washy musician in me. I love music. I love poetry This particular study has just been super fun and this morning's message is entitled in his hands He guides me he guides me and our text for this morning if you'll turn with me or click to the book of psalm We're going to chapter 23. We're going to look at the latter half of verse 3, which is called 3b and verse 4 Please let me remind you when the bible was first written there was not page numbers or chapter numbers or verse numbers Or if you're reading an actual bible those really cool headings that are in there You know a psalm of david whatever some of those are in there Some of them are not when you go to the the gospels like the gospel of john And it says jesus's sermon on the mount heather that's not in the real text of the bible all of that is in the bible Text of the bible all of that is added after the fact by the publisher of whoever published your particular version Miss judy your nlt, right? so the nlt is published by Thomas nelson incorporated does anybody have an niv? Got an iv back here sweet yours is owned by zondervan publications Why because the publishing company is the one who invest invested the money in order to translate the bible and create Okay, I don't have an iphone is the orange mean it's muted or unmuted It's not muted Well, it goes sideways Okay, I just want to make sure it's muted since you forgot it Okay So the publisher whoever published your bible when they publish your bible They add in the chapters and the verses and those cute little headings And any of the study notes at the bottom all to make your bible more accessible But the text of scripture had no divisions in it. They were literally oh, I mean ultimately in the ultimate They were scrolls They were just straight lines of text and the problem is if you had a scroll and I had a scroll and nico had a scroll They might not all be written by the same person. They might not be written the same handwriting They might not even be written in the same language So somewhere along the line we added all the chapter and verse numbers so that we could do what we're doing this morning And study the bible together Before I read your text, I want to give you a short kind of an opener for this morning And and no, this is not a joke, but it is actually a blind man and his dog walk into a bar It is the actual over a blind man and his dog walk into a bar He finds his way over to the actual bar and he says to the bartender. Please give me a drink bartender looks back at him and says You can't bring dogs in here And he goes, oh this this is my seeing eye dog He goes, oh, oh, i'm sorry. What do you want? So the man orders his drink he takes it and he goes and sits at a table far away from the bar What happened to be near the front door? Another man walks in with a dog and he passes the guy at the front table and he says He's not gonna let you keep the dog. You have to tell him it's your seeing eye dog. The guy looks and goes Oh, okay. Thanks. So the second guy he goes up to the bar. He orders a drink the bartender says hey You can't bring dogs in here And the second guy says but he's my seeing eye dog and the bartender says no, wait a minute A chihuahua is not a seeing eye dog And the second man looks at the bartender without skipping a beat. He goes what they gave me a chihuahua Very very very shameless seeing eye dog joke all to make one point It does often depend on what you look for for guidance whether you're going to find what you're looking for That's really what this morning's passage is going to be about so let's take a look at this This is obviously david king david talking about god his shepherd, but also the shepherd of israel He says this he guides me along the right paths for his name's sake Even though I walk through the darkest valley I will fear no evil for you are with me your rod and your staff They comfort me Now let me give you your first blank this morning and then i'm going to break that section down as we look at it together Here's your first blank. There is only one right path There is only one right path There is only one right path Now before I give you a couple supporting passages for this that's the that's the line i'm working with here He guides me along the right paths Now for us to be able to say that there is a right path That first means heather. There is some sort of standard By which you are using to measure the difference between right and wrong Before you can establish that something is right or is not right you must have already had a Pre-established measure of rule a measure of thought for many christians that measure of rule may be the bible For many moral moral worldviews that measure of right and wrong is the human concept of morality For a muslim it would be the quran for a native american. It would be their spirit ancestors It doesn't really matter at this point what we're saying your measure of thought is but miss josephine for me to say there's a right path First means I have an objective and measurable standard by which I determine the difference between right and wrong second for there to be a right path there must also be a Wrong path because for me to call it the right path if there were no other paths You wouldn't call it the right path you call it the path There'd be no reason to call it the right path if it was the only path So there's a little bit of a danger here though if I call that the right path We want to uh in our own sense for symmetry go well there must be a wrong path Now you're correct in the sense that there may be a wrong path, but there's a trap here Dan can it still be the right path if there is more than one wrong path? Yes, it can just because david is saying he guides me on the right path Does not mean there may not be multiple choices for wrong paths And as my life if I look back over my history I can tell you there were plenty of opportunities to take the wrong path But there in order for there to be a right path. There's only one There may be multiple wrong paths, but there can only be one right path He didn't say the right couple of paths said guides me on the right path That means there is an objective measurable standard by which I can measure right from wrong and there are one or more wrong paths But there is only one Right path take a look at hebrews chapter 4 verse 12. This is in the new century version God's word is alive and working and is sharper than a double-edged sword It cuts all the way into us where the soul and the spirit are joined to the center of our joints and bones And it judges the thoughts and feelings of our heart This is a very famous passage amongst bachelors and evangelicals talks about the power and the validity of the word of god in the everyday life The word of god should be the standard objective measurement for which we use to determine right from wrong The word of god is not some blanket statement. It literally means it is a scalpel talks about a double-edged Sword it is able to cut and find the difference between soul and spirit joint and marrow It is an exact measuring tool. It is an exact cutting tool The word of god should be for the believer the objective measuring standard by which we are able to determine The right from the wrong also take a look at matthew chapter 7 13 and 14. This is the niv Enter through this is jesus speaking by the way in his famous sermon on the mount enter through the narrow gate For wide is the gate and broad is the road that leads to destruction and many enter through it But small is the gate and narrow road that leads to life and only a few find it Jesus himself is pointing out there are plenty more options for right for wrong than there are for right The nice big wide road that everybody seems to be following Doesn't lead where god wants us to go It is the narrow road in the narrow gate following the word of god and jeez and ultimately jesus's teaching is what he's teaching in the rest Of the sermon That's the road that leads to life So when david says he guides me along the right paths. Yes, the new testament had not been written yet But david's faith in god is seen in both of these passages David knew he did have scripture. He had torah He he knew who jehovah was he had a personal relationship with god. There are plenty of parallels for us today David knew that the god and his character standard and word needed to be the objective standard by which we measure And david also knew that there are plenty of wrong paths, but only one right one Here's your second blank this morning God guides us in his plans God guides us in his plans This is that part that says for his name's sake for his name's sake Now as I have pointed out previous messages I failed english twice in high school I am really good at public speaking and halfway decent at writing But miss josephine when it comes to diagramming a sentence and knowing where the verb and the adverb and the clause and all No No, no Number one. I had a massive problem with it because I don't see us using that in the real world anywhere Like having to draw it out and know which one goes up this way and which goes down goes this way and this has to have A circle and this has to have an underline and i'm like i'm doing math with words like what's the point? I'll just go back to algebra Um, so I did not do very well at that But as I have gained a little bit more education I have realized that understanding the difference between a noun and a pronoun and a verb and an active verb and inactive verb Does come in handy and this is what such one such of those cases david is saying for his name's Sake the first thing I need to point out to you his name Is a literary device again. What type of text is the book of psalms? There's multiple types of literature in the bible. There's history. There's narrative. There's apocalyptic prophecy There's poetry there's wisdom. What are we reading when we read the book of psalms? poetry absolutely right and with poetry comes a certain amount of Literary licensure To make more beautiful word pictures than let's say the gospel of luke when he's doing a very exacting You know detailed or recorded account of something So his name if you want to circle it underline it highlight it do something in your bible His name is actually a literary device In psalms for god himself You know, let me take a look at this in the next slide Praise his name Is used in psalm 96 2 104 149 verse 3 dwelling for his name deuteronomy 12 11 14 23 16 2 16 6 16 11 and 26 2 Do we praise the name of god or do we use god's name to praise god himself Do we worship the name like the actual letters or do we worship the god that the name merely represents When it says a dwelling for his name Nico did we build the temple and the tabernacle so that we could take the letters of god's name and give them a house to dwell In or are the letters merely the symbol? Of the character anointing and glory of god himself the same thing is true in psalm 23 David is using the the literary device his name to speak about god himself For his own sake or for his sake is another way I could say that so when god guides for his Names sake or for his sake The his name refers to god himself and sake refers to the glory or the reverence of god You can see that here when we praise his name We don't praise the letters that make up the name of god We praise the actual glory and reverence for god himself when they built the tabernacle and built a dwelling for his name They did not build a dwelling for the letters that made up the word of god's name They built a dwelling for the glory and reverence of god's presence So in the old testament and some of the new you can see this device used where it says well I'm going to do something in his name Well, what does that mean? It doesn't mean i'm doing something in the letters dan It means i'm doing something in honor or in reverence of dan himself If i'm going to to do something in someone's name, it's not actually the letters that make up the name. It's the the name Represents person represents a ideal it represents something well david is saying the same thing here He's saying that god guides in his plans for his namesake or if I translate it for the glory and reverence of god Himself the reason for god's guidance on the right path is for his glory not our own We did not earn god's guidance onto the right path his grace extends it So therefore fred if I did not earn the gracious guidance that god extended How can I take credit for it? How can I take the glory out of god's presence? When it's himself who gave me the guidance and himself sees the difference between the right and wrong paths Take a look at proverbs chapter 19 verse 21 Proverbs 19 21 you can make many plans But the lord's purpose will prevail I don't know about you, but I find it quite encouraging That god has a plan Because I don't always oh nico do me favor go down the soundboard mute everything except for number one I'm gonna move this and I don't want to make crazy amount of noise. There we go I am super encouraged by the fact that god has a plan because Miss diane if i'm truthful My adhd gets in the way and I don't always plan very well I have a hard time planning groceries for a week Do you know what grocery if if my wife and children ever went into town? Do you know what my standard diet would look like until they came home? Not even peanut jelly cereal Bowl spoon cereal milk. I have cereal for breakfast. I'd have cereal for lunch I'd have ice cream for dinner and I'd have ice cream for dessert. Now would be my life I'd have a box of cereal for breakfast and lunch and I'd have a half a gallon of ice cream for dinner and dessert And i'd be out I'm just being honest. I don't plan very well That's why those of you who know me I have to put everything in my calendar I have to put everything in my phone My watch has to remind me because I don't juggle multiple things very well the adhd kicks in it helps to be creative I love music But I want my life to mean more than just What i'm feeling like today? You know what I mean? I want to know that i'm a part of something greater than myself I want to know that i'm in service of a god who could see far Down the years of my life And even though I don't know what the next week the next month the next year or the next decade may have planned I trust and believe that my god does And when I can trust and believe that my god is guiding my feet along the paths in which he chooses Sean when I reach those storms when I reach those moments that I am less than satisfied in my current situation I can find peace. I can find comfort. I can find solace in the fact that i'm not responsible To make the plan for bill's life. I'm just merely responsible to pray about it and follow the plan for my life Because god guides us in the plans for his name's sake take a look at the next section Probably the most famous line from this There will be dark places along the way There will be dark places along the way Even though I walk through the darkest valley I have to say the more I study out of the new living the more I super love the way it's translated many of you probably know yay, though I walk through the valley of the Shadow of death that's a very common way to remember it. That's king james. It's very beautiful. It's very illustrative And it's also a little misleading The word in the hebrew Is has nothing to do with death. In fact, it has to do with dark the absence of light now Yes, and many times light can be an illustrious dark can be an illustration for death Any darkened his eyes and fell asleep? That's an illustrative way to say someone died but The reason I do not believe that shadow of death is nearly as accurate as dark place or darkest Place is because let's think about what has happened in this psalm so far Whose perspective is david speaking from? the lord is my shepherd I shall not want He makes me Lie down in green pastures He leads me beside still waters. Who is david? uh Illustrating himself to be the shepherd or the sheep the sheep God is the ultimate shepherd The lord is my shepherd He leads me he guides me david is identifying himself as the sheep Now with that as your backbone Do sheep have the mental capacity to understand the concept of life and death? Or do they merely have the understanding dark equals bad Shepherd equals good I would argue that any given stock livestock animal is not going to sit down and contemplate the philosophical meaning of the concept of death But from the time they can walk they're going to have an understanding that dark can be bad Because they have been ingrained that dark could equal predator predator could equal bad dark could equal fall fall could equal drown They have an understanding of dark But not necessarily as much as we as humans understand the illustrative value that dark could also be death So the reason I believe that there will be or that even though I walk through the darkest valley is a much better Translation of what david is trying to say about god is because from this point david has been speaking as the sheep Not the shepherd He's not speaking like the human. He's speaking like the animal the animal that doesn't know Where the green pastures are the animal that doesn't know the difference between the roaring waters and the quiet waters The animal that barely knows the difference between light and dark, but he knows enough that he doesn't want to be in the dark valley the reason I think the darkest valley is applicable is because Dark illustrates just the absence of life the death dark can illustrate fear anxiety worry Discouragement stress there are plenty of dark things that happen in life that before death happens When you see it as the valley of the shadow of death all you think the sheep fears is losing its life When the reality is there's so much more to fear in life than that worry stress discouragement anxiety All of these things can bottle up to become a dark place that don't have to automatically go to that i'm dead So when we say he leads me through the darkest valley god the shepherd leads david his sheep Through times of stress anxiety worry take a look at first and second samuel there were plenty of worrisome activities to be had You remember the we just finished the kings of gold series. I skipped some of the drama between david and saul So the first thing that came to mind was the drama between david and saul Saul sought to kill david for What gotta be 20 25 chapters between first and second samuel? Saul was trying to kill david trying to take his life and a group of people would come behind david And and and they would encourage him just to go ahead and kill saul and he said no i'm not going to that's the lord's anointed And yet david would then or saul would just keep coming at one point saul there in the palace And he would just step at david's head and david steps to the side like all like matrix-ish and barely misses him But he was in the same room as the man who threw a spear at his head I'm saying in that moment mild amount of stress Think about the things that david has gone through when he's writing this for us Take a look at Joshua chapter 1 verse 9 Be strong and courageous do not be afraid do not be discouraged For the lord your god will be with you wherever you go Again now speaking to joshua several generations before david joshua is the guy who takes over after moses Dies moses leaves the children of israel out of egyptian captivity Joshua leads them into the promised land there's a whole 40 year they get lost in the wilderness because they're disobedient Can't figure out how to follow god joshua takes over and it's joshua's job to lead the people of god into taking the promised land And he is not excited About this new promotion He's frightened if you read joshua chapter 1 you're gonna you're gonna see these words Be strong and courageous like seven or eight times. It's the anthem of joshua chapter 1 be strong and courageous But why is joshua strong and courageous? Because god is with you wherever you go take a look at matthew chapter 10 verses 18 through 20 On my account this is jesus speaking to his disciples on my account You will be brought before governors and kings as witnesses to them and to the gentiles, but when they arrest you Do not worry what you will say or how you will say it at that time You will be given what to say for it will not be you speaking but the spirit of your father speaking through you Again jesus is reminding his disciples nico. It's not all sunshine and roses when you step out on the ministry path That does not mean you are alone it does not mean you face it by yourself It means you face fear in the presence of god almighty and in so I can move on I can do that Take a look at your next blank this morning. We can choose not to fear We can choose not to fear I will fear no evil for you are with me Fear is an interesting thing I think I have two small children they're afraid of the dark I was afraid of the darkest kid Anybody ever remember you don't have to admit this out loud if you don't want to but I will because i'm an idiot I remember as a kid I was so afraid of the dark that I wouldn't set foot in a dark room So I would reach my hand in like this and go around and and find the light switch And find the light switch with as much of my body hidden from the bedroom as possible Then i'd flip on the light switch and then i'd walk in the room Why? Because I was afraid of the dark of what I can't see Made me fearful Then a few years later you grow up to your your teenage young adult years And you don't fear anything because everybody knows teenagers know everything Right, so you go through this stage where as a child You fear that which you do not know As a teen as a young adult you have no fear because you're convinced you know all And then somewhere around adulthood You start to relearn how much you don't know And how much you do know And how much you should be afraid of both Interesting though in all three stages of life as a child you fear what you don't know As a teenager you don't fear because you think you know and as a young adult or a grown adult you fear Because of what you do know and don't know did you notice in every one of those stages of life fear is directly associated With your mental capacity to understand Children fear what they don't know Teens and young adults don't fear because they think they do know And adults fear what they do know and don't know In all instances fear is based in your capacity to know and understand Because at the end of the day Fear is a verb It's not an adjective fearful could be an adjective or an adverb fearfully But fear in and of itself is a verb. It's an active verb when he says I will fear no evil He is not saying I will uh, he what he's not saying is I will not have to fear That's a different sentence, isn't it? I will not have to fear Says okay ashley there's nothing around for me to fear. Therefore. I will not have to fear he said I will not Fear miss josephine that is an active choice in the presence of that which may make me fearful I will choose not to fear Because you are with me because fear is based in your intellectual property That means fear is based on your brain Sometimes we're afraid because we think we heard something. I know michael last night. Um Came tearing I mean absolutely Full-on fearfully tearing across the house Because he heard something outside Right outside emily's bedroom window and he didn't know what it was What he didn't realize was mom was outside walking the dog He didn't know that All he knew is there's a sound very close to my daughter my sister's Uh bedroom window and I don't know what it is Now thankfully daddy knew mommy was walking the dog. So daddy didn't have to go get his gun but I knew My wife was walking the dog So because of that piece of information that knowledge that I had fred I did not have to fear That which my son feared because my knowledge told me what it was rationalized it out And even in the presence of the same thing that made my son afraid I was able to not fear because I know That is what your relationship with god is supposed to do for you In the presence of that which we are drawn to fear We can choose not to fear because I know God is with me Because I know in an intellectual mental capacity that I carry the power of the almighty god with me The power that rose jesus from the grave the power that healed the blind and the deaf the power that multiply the loaves and the fish walks with me I know that So, why do I fear? Why do I still walk in fear in dark places? Because you might know it but you're not living it yet Now i'm not saying that because you are super christian. You need to go out and be chuck norris If you want to i'm bringing a camera. That's all i'm saying If you want to go out, that's fine. But what I am saying is here. Remember, what is david's perspective? David is the sheep to god's shepherd He knows the shepherd knows all Therefore even though I don't know all I know the shepherd who knows all so therefore I don't need to fear David is not saying that there won't be fear or there won't be cause for fear or there may not be reason to fear He is saying he will not fear because of the presence of god take a look at psalm 27 verse 1 The lord is my light and my salvation Whom shall I fear great song by the way by hill songs lord is my light and salvation Whom shall I fear? The lord is the stronghold of my life You know what stronghold is think back to ancient Mesopotamian samarian warfare the stronghold is the armory that is built into the wall that surrounds the city It is the place with the guns If I am in the place with the guns, I don't know that i'm very much afraid of the person on the outside Just saying if i'm locked in a military armory surrounded by things to defend myself I'm not going to be afraid till i'm running an ammo So That's what he's saying. I'm the lord is the stronghold He is the armory the defensive bunker of my life Of whom shall I be afraid? How about isaiah chapter 41 verse 10 in the niv? So do not fear for I am with you not be dismayed for I am your god I will strengthen you and help you I will uphold you with my righteous hand Romans chapter 9 38 and 39 For I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor demons Neither the present nor the future nor any powers nor height nor depth nor anything else in all creation Will be able to separate us from the love of god that is in christ. Jesus We should be free of fear Because we know we have our relationship with god. Here's your last blank We should trust in god's power and plan We should trust in god's power and plan the last line for this morning your rod And your staff They comfort me Your rod and your staff They comfort me You go we're gonna leave it here for a minute I gotta explain what the rod and the staff are keep in mind David is the shepherd to god's sheep. We are talking about not modern-day shepherds or cattle ranchers We are talking about you know, a thousand to fifteen hundred bc ancient Near east shepherding shepherds have Two main tools that they carry the first is the rod The rod is I think the best modern-day example that I can give you Is a billy club Anybody know what a billy club is you ever seen a law enforcement officer? They carry a billy club It's a club about this long and about depending on what part of it is about that big around sometimes it has a side shaft On it the rod is a weapon The rod is a weapon primarily used for bludgeoning whatever is coming at your sheep It is a weapon that is used for both defense and offense, but it is not used On the sheep That's the key point here. The rod is not used Primarily on the sheep It is used to protect the sheep to defend the sheep the staff Is the primary tool the shepherd uses with the sheep think to if you've ever been to church around christmas time and you've seen a Christmas pageant and there's a little kid there and he's holding a staff and it's really long and it's got the big curve At the top of it that is commonly called the shepherd's staff The staff does two things as a poetic symbol number one. It's the symbol of the position of authority of the shepherd Only the shepherd carries the staff The sheep don't carry the chef the staff the shepherd carries the staff, but there is a use for it Does anybody know why it's crooked at the end? That's exactly right Do you hear what zadok said wrap around the neck pull them up or change their course May not necessarily be to pull them up from from a lower point of elevation. Although absolutely could do that. It's also for guidance No, no, no over here kid You know, oh my god that looks whoop. Nope over here You know, that's exactly what the shepherd staff can be the shepherd staff is a symbol of his authority and his guidance The shepherd's rod is a symbol of his justice And his discipline or protection depending on where the rod is going Why is that super important? Because again, we're reading poetry You have to understand the symbols that he's using if we're hopefully going to understand where it is Let's take a look at first samuel chapter 17 verses 34 and 35 This is david himself as a boy speaking to king saul right before the fight with david and goliath But david said to saul your servant meaning himself has been keeping his father's sheep When a lion or bear came and carried it off from the flock. I went after it and struck it And rescued the sheep from its mouth When it turned on me, I seized it by the hair Struck it and killed it What did david use to beat the heck out of the lion? The rod That's exactly right. Sounds cooler with the movie phone voice the rod That's what he uses to attack The rod was a weapon take a look at Ephesians Chapter two verses eight through ten. This is the apostle paul writing to the church at ethesis God saved you by his grace when you believe and you can't take credit for this It's a gift from god salvation is not a reward for the good things we have done So no one can boast about it for we are god's masterpiece He has created us anew in christ jesus so we can do good things He has planned for us long ago that last part planned for us most important How does god get us to do the things that he's planned for us to do? Anybody ever think about it? We believe god has a plan most of you nodded your heads when I said that earlier We believe god has a plan then doesn't that mean by proxy jonathan come here? Hey you guys chose to sit in the front row All right, do me a favor. I want you to stand here And I want you to slowly walk towards that door. No like turn it like a normal human being What did I just do in a very simple fashion I redirected Thank you. I redirected what he was already doing I redirected what he was already doing there are times in our lives where god will redirect you To where he wants you to go Some of you may have experienced that If god has a plan we have to understand that god must have a mechanism for guiding us in his plan That's the shepherd's crook the shepherd would reach out and go nobody this way. Come on. Don't go that way You don't know that there was a hungry wolf five seconds away You don't know that there was the water there that you would have drowned in You don't know what was over Maybe it was just you were going to get lost in the desert and starve to death and be a very unhappy sheep You know all you know is the shepherd reaches out with the symbol of his guidance and his authority And he brings you back to where he wants you to go David again has still been speaking from the perspective of the sheep. He has experienced both of these things in his life David has experienced the rod of god He partly was part of the rod of god when he took it out on goliath Goliath's fight was all about goliath being disobedient to god not goliath challenging it Go back and read the story read what goliath said. I defy you god of israel That's why david warmed up on goliath at that moment one could argue david was actually the rod of god's hand And then the shepherd that calmly reaches out and goes here boo boo Let's go this way Not that way you don't want to go there All of a sudden god's leading sheep in jamaica don't go over there this way What does it take For us in our modern day era our modern day smartphone facebook mocha choco latte with no whip life To embrace this concept Of the simple shepherd leading our lives Our lives are lived at such a fast pace I mean I got frustrated this morning when I got here because the internet that hotspots on my phone is faster than the dsl She has to the building and i'm like all this is so frustrating. Why don't things load in less than a second? You know, and you're so trained for it. You're so used to it. We're so used to breakneck life Sometimes we can move so fast. We miss right over god going this way Don't go there and then you end up in a situation You never should have been in because god is trying to steer you and you just miss the exit altogether One of the things that I think is so beautiful about this entire part Is when you realize david sees himself as the sheep even though he has been the shepherd That's why this path that's why this chapter is so beautiful if david was the shepherd He has personal experience of what it's like to hold the rod and kill the bear and the lion He has personal life experience of what it's like to use the crook to save the sheep from going in a direction He doesn't want and he takes all of that life experience to talk about how god is moving in his life How is god moving in your life How would you describe it? What would your life experience if you were to write your own shepherd's song? Dan I can imagine yours would have at least one or two woodworking illustrations in it Especially about little tweaks Little sand here and there measure twice cut once come on norm. That's a great adage to live by All of the beauty And illustration that david uses in this text Is because he's lived it And he's now experiencing that which he did for the sheep as a boy. He's experiencing god doing in his life as a man That's why it's so important To go back and read this stuff again because it really is beautiful You