This morning I have the privilege of beginning a brand new series with you, a brand new teaching series. And you can see the new graphic, it's here, it dropped on Facebook yesterday, for those of you who were there, you saw it. It's called, In His Hands, Finding Peace in the Shepherd's Security. In His Hands, Finding Peace in the Shepherd's Security. Now to kick this series off, I have a short little story for you. A pastor was traveling in the Middle East, as many of us like to do, to be able to see the sights and see the pristine scenery there. And he was on this one particular tour bus. And Miss Diane, the tour guide, as they were traveling through these open sort of pastoral grasslands, where there were large flocks of sheep, began to speak about the life of a shepherd. And to talk about, you know, Niko, how Jesus called himself the Good Shepherd. And he said that the shepherd leads his sheep, he doesn't drive his sheep. He speaks to his sheep, he doesn't beat his sheep. He feeds his sheep, he doesn't starve his sheep. He protects his sheep, he doesn't harm his sheep. And the tour guide is just waxing so eloquently about how Jesus fulfills for us the portrait of the modern day shepherd. And soon he looks up from his notes, and Jonathan, he notices that everyone on the bus is ignoring him. They're all staring out the window. And he goes, I wonder what this is. So he turns, he looks out the window, and there, less than 50 yards from the very bus that he's on, is a man yelling, throwing sticks, and chasing a group of sheep. And he's just, I mean, he's absolutely livid. He's absolutely angry, he's yelling, he's screaming, he's kicking up rocks, he's chasing these animals. And of course, it completely ruins the awesome, eloquent moment that the tour guide had built. So much so that Nelson, he has him stop the bus. He has the bus driver stop, the tour guide gets off the bus, he goes over to this very angry sheep chaser, and he says, do you understand, you just ruined my tour? I was talking about how awesome the shepherd is, and here you are beating your sheep and yelling at them and throwing sticks. And the sheep chaser looks at him and he says, sir, I think you have me confused. I'm not the shepherd, I'm the local butcher. A comical way to introduce the fact that good shepherds aren't the same as good butchers. Now, if you have your, that was a bad joke, I'm sorry. If you have your Bibles with you, whether they be physical or digital, please turn with me to the book of Psalms. The book of Psalms. If you're not really sure where Psalms is, stick your finger in the middle of your Bible, you're very likely to be in the book of Psalms. We're going to Psalm 23. If your Bible is on your phone, please do not try to stick your phone through the screen. Psalm 23. And this is a rare occasion, in fact, I have not had the opportunity to do this since I came here five years ago. But the text for our message this morning will be Psalm 23 verse 1. I have it for you here on the screen in the New Living Translation. I'll give you another minute to find it. Psalm 23, the entire In His Hands series, Jess, is going to be an expounding on the 23rd Psalm. Now, if you grew up in church like me, you're probably familiar with the 23rd Psalm. In fact, this opening line leads you into a lot of it. So here's the way the New Living Translation translates Psalm 23 verse 1. The Lord is my shepherd. I have all that I need. Now, if you were like me, you may be thinking in your head, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. That is exactly the way I memorized it when I was a child. I really like the way the New Living Translation translates the latter half of this sentence, because, David, you have to understand, when we look at the book of Psalms, you understand that we're reading poetry, right? So that means that not everything is exactly as it stands. A lot of times poets will use words, will use imagery to communicate something. And I remember as a child thinking, oh, if the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. That must mean I get everything I want. And obviously, that's not the kind of truth that David's trying to communicate. So I like the fact that it says, I have all that I need. Now, we're going to sort of break down this verse, because I think there are some very important details, even just in this first sentence, that I want to make sure we get and we lay the groundwork as we expound the rest of the 23rd Psalm. So if you look at the back of your bulletin, if you look at the back of your bulletin, there are some blanks on it. I would like to ask you to fill in with me as we go through. Again, this is sort of new for me, using only one verse as my text, but Miranda, I promise I'll try to do a good job. 23rd Psalm, verse one, your first blank this morning is this. The Lord, in quotes, the Lord is Jehovah, the God of Israel. Here's your first blank. The Lord, and in quotes meaning that's the part of that verse that I'm looking at. He opens with the Lord is my shepherd, just the Lord, the first two words. Like I can't even get two words into the sentence, Nelson. I got to stop because there's something very valid here. The Lord is Jehovah, the God of Israel. Now, if you are, if you attend our midweek Bible study, you'll know that every time we come across anything that could be labeled in the who category, an individual person, a group of people, a name, anything like that, we want to stop and we want to take a look at it. We want to see what can that teach us. Well, if you look at the words in Hebrew that David chooses to use here, the word for the Lord is Jehovah. He is using the personal covenantial name for God that God gave to his people. You don't have to turn there, but in Exodus chapter 22 and three, God said, I am the Lord, your God, who rescued you from the land of Egypt, the place of your slavery. You must not have any other God but me. Many of you may be familiar with that. That's the beginning of the Decalogue or the Ten Commandments. When God said, I am the Lord, God self identifies as Jehovah. Just like in today's world, there are multiple gods. Well, obviously, back in David's day, there were other gods. There were other pagan claimed deities. Just like in their day and our day, there's a difference between a god and the God. Even when you write it out, when you write out the name of the God of the Bible, in English, we normally capitalize the G to signify the individual that we're speaking of. If you're referring to Poseidon, who was a Greek god, then no, Poseidon was Roman, Greek. Neptune was Roman. See, already off the side track. When you refer to any of the Greek or Roman pantheon, we use the lowercase G because we're not referring to the Lord God Almighty. Well, in Hebrew, it's just two different words. The big G God and the little G God are two different words. And we see that right here. I am the Lord, the word Jehovah, your God, the word Elohim. Elohim in the Old Testament can be used the way we use the little G God. Elohim could be used to describe a deity of any kind. It's the commonplace word for God the way we use it today. In English, it just gets a little confusing because Miss Josephine, it's the same word. But I want you to see that big G, when we say big G God, that's Jehovah. We are speaking of the God who revealed himself in the Bible, who is eventually God's son, his name, Jesus. That individual specific God. When David opens the 23rd Psalm with the Lord is my shepherd, he is saying Jehovah is my shepherd. This verse cannot be taken to mean Buddha is my shepherd. It cannot be taken to mean that Allah is my shepherd. It cannot be taken to mean that Shiva or Krishna or Atlas or Poseidon, you cannot substitute any other claimed deity for the rest of this Psalm. David makes it clear on his opener, Jehovah is my shepherd. When we fast forward into the New Testament in John 14, 6, which I don't believe I have there for you, Jesus said, I am the way, the truth and the life. No one can come to the father, but through me. First Timothy 2, 5, there is but one God and one mediator who is the father of the two. There is but one God and one mediator who can reconcile God to humanity and that is Jesus Christ. In the New Testament church, we don't normally have a problem differentiating between the supremacy of Jesus and all of the other deities that exist. For the most part, when we are grown up in America, we are used to the idea that Jesus is bigger than every other God, especially if you have grown up in a Christian home. But in David's day, you have to understand that wasn't exactly the case. Jehovah was just one of the many gods that existed in ancient Mesopotamia. So David is very clear when he's speaking of Jehovah God when he says, Jehovah is my shepherd. Here's your second blank this morning. The second two words, third and fourth words, is my, shows God's personal relationship with David. The Lord is my, shows the personal relationship with David. Most of the places in the Old Testament, if you look at the way God relates to his children in the Old Testament, Chris, most of them are corporate. Most of them are corporate. Let's talk about the story of Moses. Moses is sent, technically he goes out to the wilderness, he talks to the burning bush, he gains a wife, he comes back, he rescues the children of Israel from Egypt. That was a corporate moment. God rescued his entire nation. Then Moses leads him out to Sinai, and then the Ten Commandments are given. That's a corporate moment, God relating to all of his children. Then he goes forward to Kings of Gold, we just finished that. Samuel appoints a king over the entire nation of Israel. The majority of the movings of God in the Old Testament are in the corporate relationship between God and his people, which stands directly in juxtaposition to the way Jesus relates to the New Testament church, which we of course know is very personal, very individual. Jesus died for each person's individual sin. We always have to remember what's the time period we're reading about in the Bible here. It is actually, I don't want to say special, but it's unique that David chooses to recognize Jehovah as his personal shepherd, not only his corporate shepherd. I think one of the best examples that I can probably give you of God shepherding his people is the wilderness wanderings after the Exodus. For those of you who may not be familiar with the story of Moses, God rescues his people from slavery. The ten plagues of Egypt, God parts the Red Sea, they cross the Red Sea on their way out of Egypt, then they have a little bit of a disobedience problem, and so they have to wander the wilderness for 40 years, except during those 40 years, God supernaturally feeds his people. He sends them manna and birds. For 40 straight years, God gives supernatural delivery. All of a sudden, it shows up. That's God providing and shepherding his people, but that was still a corporate relationship. Here, David is saying, Jehovah is my shepherd. He could have just as easily, Kevin said, Jehovah is the shepherd of my people. Then you see how he's relating to God in the corporate sense. David is relating to Jehovah in a very personal sense. Jesse's saying, God is my personal shepherd. Now that probably rings true for a lot of us today, because we are used to the idea of a personal savior. We are used to the idea that a personal relationship with Jesus is what brings you into the corporate church. What I want you to realize is David is looking at it as the opposite perspective. Because of my corporate relationship with Israel, I have a personal relationship with God. You see how those things are exactly backwards. David sees his personal relationship coming out of his corporate relationship, but in the New Testament church with us today, we get the corporate relationship of the body of Christ after the personal relationship with the savior. For David to point out that Jehovah is his personal shepherd shows a very deep level of maturity in his relationship with God. Now, I believe I had another text in there. Was it John 3? Oh no, the two Psalms. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture. We are the people he watches over, the flock under his care. Two other Psalms. Do you notice how both of them are relating to God in the corporate, not the individual? They're seeing God in the corporate sense, which then allows them to have the individual relationship. We have the benefit in the New Testament church of not only having a personal relationship with God, but a corporate relationship with the king of kings. Here's your third blank this morning. The Lord is my, the next word there is shepherd. Shepherd is an action, not just a title. Shepherd is an action, not just a title. Shepherd is an action, not just a title. Here's Deuteronomy chapter 2, the first part of verse 7. For the Lord your God has blessed you in everything you have done. He watches your every step through this great wilderness. Now remember I talked about that wilderness wandering period that happened after the Exodus. For 40 years they wandered in the wilderness because of their disobedience. And yet the Lord God has blessed them and watched every step through this great wilderness. This is the example of Jehovah as the shepherd of his people. Now let's just in the abstract, let's just talk about sheep and shepherds for a little bit. You do realize that sheep are prey animals. They are not predatory. Sheep do not have fangs. They do not have claws. They do not have camouflage. They do not have speed. They do not have agility. They do not have flight. They are prey animals. There are only two forms of protection for sheep. Number one, big groups. There are strength in numbers. Because when a hungry wolf pack comes by, you ever heard the old, we live in Florida. So let me bring this into terms. Jess, me and Nelson are swimming down in the Everglades and we see a gator. What do you think I'm going to say to Nelson? Exactly. Hey, stay here, I'll be right back. No, I don't have to out swim the gator, right? Who do I have to out swim? That's it. I don't have to out swim the gator. I just have to out swim you. Well, the same thing holds true for the group of sheep. If there is a large number of sheep, then me and Zadok are pretty safe, because we're on the inside of the group. But Jonathan and Nico and Nelson, they're on the fray. They're on the outer fray. They're more in danger than Zadok and I, because the group provides protection. So for sheep, there are strength in numbers. Secondly, the shepherd himself is the defense for the sheep. Reminds me of, remember, who wrote this psalm, David. Do you remember what David said to King Saul right before he fought Goliath? King Saul said, surely you can't face Goliath. And David goes, this is going to be the New International Bill version. See, like, when I was a shepherd for my dad, like, there was like a lion and like a bear, and I did fine with them. God saved me from their teeth, so I can handle this Philistine. Now, that sounds super cool when David is talking to Saul, and he's amping up for that huge battle. But now rewind to the day that David had to fight the lion barehanded. Do you think that he was in that moment going, Holy God, thank you for this wonderful opportunity to fight this lion barehanded. Lord, I praise you for preparing me for whatever's coming next. No. Sometimes we over-spiritualize it. In that moment, he was fighting a real-life lion and a real-life bear with no more than a stick. Why did he do it? Because it was his duty to protect his sheep. It was his job. So when we are saying that Jehovah is my personal shepherd, he is my personal protection. Shepherd's job is also to feed. They're to rotate the sheep. Did you know that sheep are so unintelligent? I don't want to say stupid because people can get offended at that. But sheep be dumb. Sheep be so dumb that they will eat the grass until the grass is gone, and then they will eat the dirt, and then they will eat the rocks. Why? Because it takes the shepherd to go, No, guys, there's grass over this way. Come on. Come on, little sheepy sheepy. Go this way. If it were not for the shepherd rotating the sheep, the sheep would not nourish themselves. The sheep would not protect themselves. The Hebrew word that David uses here for shepherd is ra'ah, and it is literally a verb and a noun. Like, for instance, can someone tell me what is the definition of the word spring? Anybody? Just raise your hand. What is the definition of the word spring? You've got to raise your hand. Yes. Renewal. Okay. In what way? Renewal of the earth. Okay. So a physical spring. What's another definition of the word spring? Yeah. To jump. Another one. How about coiled metal? That's a spring. How about water that comes up out of the ground? That's a spring. How about the season that comes before summer? That's a spring. What's that? There you go. Irish spring. That's some soap. Thank you for making another product placement. Not a sponsor. There are words in our language and in Hebrew that can mean multiple things. The word ra'ah is the same word that we describe the Lord is my shepherd, is the same word used to describe the job the shepherd does. And in English, I know you don't know, unless you work in a ministry setting or in a leadership setting, you may not be used to the word shepherd as a verb. But I read a lot of books on shepherd-ing. In English, we call it shepherd-ing. In fact, one of my favorite books at home is called The Shepherd Leader, The Art of Shepherd-ing. And what he's saying is, what does the job the shepherd does for the sheep? I often look at the deacons and I go, OK, go, shep. Go, shep. Not just abbreviated. But what we're talking about is that the job a shepherd does is both the title of his job and the very verb in which he does the job. The protection of the sheep, the provision of food for the sheep, and the guidance of the sheep. A good shepherd rotates his flock through multiple patches of grass. Why? Because the shepherd knows if they eat too much grass in one spot, it won't grow back. So sometimes the good shepherd has to rotate his flock through multiple fields. I know, Bobo. Multiple fields in order for the sheep to have the full nourishment they're supposed to get. When David is saying Jehovah is my shepherd, he's not only identifying with the fact that Jehovah is his protector, his provider, his guidance of not just corporate Israel, but my personal shepherd. Think back to what he said to Saul. The Lord rescued me from the teeth of the bear, the claw of the lion. That was not a corporate moment. He was very personal with that moment. He was very personal with that moment. The Lord rescued me. That's one of the reasons I think this psalm is so beautiful, is it does give the reflection of the corporate nature of God. But David has a personal relationship here that almost mimics that which we get to see in the New Testament church. And then when we come into the New Testament, John 10, 27 and 28, My sheep listen to my voice. I know them and they follow me. I give them eternal life. And they will never perish. No one can snatch them away from me. Of course, we have the benefit of reading the New Testament. We know that Jesus is the good shepherd, that all of the illusions and foreshadowing of shepherding in the Old Testament lead us to the beautiful picture of Jesus as a shepherd in the New Testament. Let me give you your fourth blank this morning. I have all that I need. I have all that I need. I have all that I need. God's provision is complete. God's provision is complete. The Lord's provision is complete. God as Israel's shepherd, Jehovah, provided powerfully for them during the wilderness wandering. Now that does not mean that there probably weren't, quote, greener pastures. That probably does not mean, because in fact we have a scriptural record of it, that there were not some grumbling upset sheep. Of course there were. About halfway through the wilderness wandering, they get tired of God supernaturally providing manna every single day and go, if all we have to eat manna, I'm going to starve on this manna. It's amazing how in the midst of God's supernatural provision, we can still act like spoiled children. And we're done. One of the things I think is so awesome about, and I did, I read the 23rd Psalm in every single Bible translation I have. I think I have probably nine or ten of them just on this tablet. And I read it in every single one of them. And I actually read them out loud to my wife, who couldn't see what translation I was reading. So we were reading all of them over and over. And we kept, okay, I don't want to use this one. Okay, I don't want to use this one. Trying to find the one that I felt was going to fit the best way for me to teach this passage. And my phone's going off. Shh. Thank you. And this is your lesson. Always remember to turn your ringer off. Sorry about that. I love the way the New Living translates this verse because it gets at the real heart of the issue for David. David is the writer, and he's saying, The Lord is my shepherd. I have all that I need. Take a look at Deuteronomy, chapter 2, 7, now B, the latter half. During these 40 years, the Lord God has been with you, and you have lacked nothing. You have lacked nothing. Describing God's provision for His children during that wilderness wandering period. I have lacked nothing. Now that does not mean that when we bring it into our day, that just because God is our provider, that every one of us gets to win the lottery. I know if God answers prayer, then how come I didn't win the lottery? I could go to the book of James. You have not because you ask not, or because you ask with wrong motives. I believe God answers all prayer, but sometimes His answer is no. It doesn't mean that God answers all prayer with a yes. When we get to I have all that I need, David is clearly hearkening back to what would have been part of his cultural understanding. Like we talked about that corporate understanding of God's relationship with corporate Israel. God is our provider. He saved us from slavery. He provided for us miraculously for 40 years. He even gave us a king when we didn't need one or deserve one. He has provided. Now trusting in God's provision is not always easy. I don't want to stand up here and make you think that because I chose to be a pastor that I have like a fast pass and prayer to God. Those of you who are big Disney fans, you know the fast passes. So you don't have to wait in the long line. You get in the fast pass line. You can go up like there is no ministerial fast pass line. Like I don't get extra blessings from God because I chose this as a job. If anything, I get extra trial because I chose this as a job. I'll give you that. But when you are trusting in God's provision, you have to trust that God sees even what you don't see. When you say I have all that I need from God, not I have all that I want. I might not have the brand new shiny car. I still might not own my own home, which I was really hoping after living here for five years that I would. That's something very much on my heart. God, when will I be allowed to purchase a home? Not this year. OK, keep going. Keep your head up. Just because God gives us all that we need. That's why I didn't want to use the I shall not want. The word want there was really need, not desire. I don't have all that I could desire. I don't have a brand new 90 inch flat screen with like a gigantic video game system and a man cave because those who've been in my house know that my children would tear it apart. There's no point in me having the man cave because my could be like Minecraft and I would lose it and they'd be gone. And then it would be Mike's TV and Mike is man cave. It wouldn't be daddy's man cave anymore. When David says I have all that I need, Miss Josephine, there is a humble and beautiful reliance on that which God has not provided. I don't need right now. And that's a hard truth. That's something very hard, especially when you have something deep inside of you that goes, I want it. I want that. I want that. I want that. And yet God doesn't let you have it. But God, I want that. Not right now, Bill. But God, I want that. And then all of a sudden you see Bill's ADHD come in and I keep praying for the same thing over and over and over and over. And yet God has not allowed me to have it. Is it because that maybe having that thing that I want right now would not be beneficial to God's plan? And I have all that I need. Allie, there's a subtext here. I have all that I need for what? For my personal happiness or to do that which God has destined me to do. There's a subtext for David. I have all that I need to accomplish God's will in my life. I may not have all that I want. I may not have all that I want. But Nelson, let's be honest. If we had everything that we wanted, would we have a lot less faith? Oh, yeah. I'd also have a whole lot less time for God because I'd have a whole lot more distractions. So sometimes having everything that you want is not a good thing. Sometimes there will always, you know, I tell people all the time the grass is always greener. Yeah, go mow it and then tell me how green it is. Somebody says, oh, the grass is always greener. Until you have to mow it. And then it's just grass. Sometimes those things that we want when we're far away from them at the distance, they look incredibly enticing. And you have to look at that distance and go, okay, the Lord has put this much distance between me and that which I want. There must be a reason. And God, I may not know your reasoning and I may not know your timing and I may not know why you have refused to let me have something that I want so badly. But I have all that I need. And that's good enough. That's really what David is saying here. I have all that I need and that's good enough. Trusting in God's provision is not an I dream of Jeannie moment where you rub on your Bible and you say your magic amen and poof, God gives you what you want. That is not faith. That is the movies. It is also not an excuse to be lazy. Trusting that God will provide so therefore I'm not going to work. Therefore, I'm not going to try because no, because that's not stewardship. You have to understand trusting in God's provision does require us to step up to the plate and do our job and then try that God is going to work in and through that. Now, here's your fifth point this morning. And I put it in parenthesis because I believe that this is the unsaid ending to this verse. It's not in the text, but I believe he said the Lord is my shepherd. I have all that I need because he's my shepherd. God provides for his sheep. The Lord is my shepherd. I have all that I need because he's my shepherd. God provides for his sheep. The provision from Jehovah is for his sheep. It's not for everybody. Let me say that again. The provision of Jehovah in the New Testament was for the children of Israel, not for everybody. God did not save the Philistine. In 40 years of wandering in the wilderness, God did not save anybody else other than Israel in those 40 years. Why? Because Israel was his sheep. Israel was his kiddos. He provided and loved for his sheep. This one's not in your notes, but Genesis chapter 17 verses seven and eight. I will confirm my covenant with you and your descendants after you from generation to generation. This is the everlasting covenant. I will always be your God and the God of your descendants after you. My midweek Bible studies, what is that? The Abrahamic covenant. All the way back in Genesis 17, God chose a people and he said, I'm going to be your God and you're going to be my peeps. From now to all the rest of your children's. New International Bill translation of that verse. There you go. God gives a promise to a group of people to be their God. And they will be his personal nation. God's provision is always for God's people. Take a look at Exodus chapter six verses six, seven and eight. Did I put that one in there for you, Jess? Therefore say to the people of Israel, I am the Lord. I will free you from your oppression and will rescue you from your slavery in Egypt. I will redeem you with a powerful arm and great action. I will redeem you with a powerful arm and great acts of judgment. I will claim you as my own people and I will be your God. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God who has freed you from your oppression in Egypt. I will bring you to a land I swore to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. I will give it to you as your very own possession. I am Jehovah. What that word is. I am Jehovah. Jehovah is the covenantal name for God between God and his people and his kids. Unfortunately, you have to also understand that David is able to say, The Lord is my shepherd. I have all that I need because he is part of the Lord's flock. Those people who are not part of the Lord's flock do not have the benefit of the Lord's provision. Now when we fast forward to the New Testament, I think the application is fairly clear. Those who know Jesus as their Savior are part of the Lord's sheep. Those who do not are not. And then I am not standing up here to yell or judge or be mean to anyone. But you have got to see the theological premise in both the New Testament and in the Old Testament. In the Old Testament, God chose a people group for himself and he saved them and he rescued them and he sanctified them and he gave them a law to live by. Then when we get to the New Testament and Jesus came and Jesus died and was sacrificed and resurrected and bought salvation for all who believe in faith and gave us a mission and a life to live for. Go into all the world and make disciples of all nations, baptize them and teach them. And by the way, I will be with you to the end of the age. Mild translation. We today are part of God's flock because of Jesus the Good Shepherd. Because of that personal relationship, we talked about that. Because of our personal relationship with Jesus, we are now connected to the corporate relationship of the body of Christ. And we have access to God's provision, to God's protection and ultimately to salvation in eternal life. But I always hate people who preach about salvation and don't talk about how it should change your daily life. Salvation is not fire insurance. It is not my get out of hell free card that I stick in my back pocket and I live my life the way I choose because at the end of my life, I'm just going to whip it out and be like, okay, God, I'm good. I'm in membership card. That's not what it is. Salvation is accepting the mission of Jesus, accepting the discipline of Jesus. Along with the provision of Jesus, along with the empowerment of the Holy Spirit. It's just us, right? Can I just say what I would normally say? If your salvation has not changed your life, why do you have any expectation it will change your death? That's what I would say if we were at Starbucks and it was just me and you. If your relationship with Jesus is not powerful enough to change your daily life, then why do you have the faith that is powerful enough to change your eternal life? Being a part of the flock of God is knowing that you have the good shepherd guarding your life at every moment of every day. As we raise our children, as we love our wives, as we become a part of a community of faith, like I have a shepherd. I could say the same sentence. The Lord, of course, I would be referring to Jesus, not Jehovah. The Lord is my good shepherd. I have all that I need. I can tell you over the five years that we have lived here, the Lord has tested my faith in areas that I did not know I didn't have faith. I know several of you are gym goers, right? You ever go to the gym on leg day and a part of your leg hurts that you didn't even know? Like there was a muscle there? And all of a sudden you're like, yeah, okay. Faith can be the same way. The Lord has tested and grown my faith in areas that I didn't even know. Please don't take a picture of that. That was a really bad face. When you have Jesus as your shepherd, I can say I have all that I need. I may not have all that I want. I may not be able to purchase the house that I want to give to my wife and kids yet, but I believe that when God wants me to have it, he'll let me have it. And that has to be good enough. And in those times in my life where I find that I am faced with want, I am faced with desire for something that the Lord has not allowed me to have yet, I can fall back. The Lord is my shepherd. I have all that I need. And then you change your focus a little bit. And I think to myself, well, you know what? I have a beautiful wife. I have amazing children. We do homeschool, which means I get to see my kids every single day. I have a really cool church. I live in an area that doesn't have snow. Praise Jesus. Like this, the little things, you know? Come on, it's the little things. I don't have to shovel snow anymore, living in South Florida. I love that. I'll take the palm tree over the oak tree any day. See? Got an amen on that one. Thank you very much. Living with the Lord as your shepherd should be encouraging. It should be exciting. It should be energizing. But there are those who do not have those benefits because they don't know God as their shepherd. So this morning, that's really my question. And I'm not pointing fingers at anybody, and I'm not trying to single any of you out. My question is, what does your relationship with God look like today? Are you coming to church for the first time, for the hundredth time, for the thousandth time? Or is this your first time in our church or any church? Or do you go to church every week but still only know of God, not know God? There is a difference between having a third-party knowledge of who God is and having a first-person relationship with God. Sadly, I believe there are people in our country who go to church every week and think that's good enough. They're stuck in the Old Testament mentality of Jesus is my Savior because I go to church. They're trading the corporate for the personal. Jesus was intended to have personal change that leads us to corporate relationship, not corporate relationship that eventually somehow, if we stand the right way on the right day of the week, brings personal change. Is Jesus your personal shepherd today? Or is He just the shepherd of your church? Are you stuck in your relationship with God because it's only been through the corporate? Or are you moving in your relationship with God because it's in the personal?