This morning we embark on a brand new series entitled Jesus is greater than religion Jesus is greater than religion I think this message this series is Just as vitally important for us today as it was in the first century Corey when Jesus was squaring off with the Pharisees because the problem of religion Never expires The problem of religion never gets old it never wears off it never wears out religion always Gets in the way of one's relationship with God so throughout this series what we're going to do is we're going to explore several times when Jesus came nose to nose with the religious people of his day and Look at how did he challenge the religious paradigm of the first century and Chris? How does that extend to us today? How do we become followers of Christ not followers of the religion of? Christ and there is a huge difference So do me a favor if you have your Bibles with you that it be physical or digital Turn with me to the gospel of Luke Matthew Mark Luke third gospel in the New Testament chapter 5 I'm gonna begin reading in verse 17, and we read all the way to verse 26, so this is Luke chapter 5 17 to 26, and I'll be reading in the New Living translation. Here's what it says One day while Jesus was teaching some Pharisees and teachers of the religious law were sitting nearby It seemed that these men showed up from every village in all Galilee and Judea as well as from Jerusalem And the Lord's healing power was strongly with Jesus Some men came carrying a paralyzed man on a sleeping mat they tried to take him inside of Jesus But they couldn't reach him because of the crowd so they went up on the roof and took off some tiles Then they lowered the sick man on his mat down into the crowd right in front of Jesus Seeing their faith Jesus said to the man young man your sins are forgiven But the Pharisees and teachers of the religious law said to themselves who does he think he is that's blasphemy only God can forgive sins Now Jesus knew what they were thinking so he asked them. Why do you question this in your hearts is? It easier to say your sins are forgiven or Stand up and walk so I will prove to you that the Son of Man has the authority on earth to forgive sins Then Jesus turned to the paralyzed man and said stand up pick up your mat and go home and Immediately as everyone watched the man jumped up everyone was gripped with great wonder and awe and they praised God Exclaiming we have seen amazing things today Now this is Just so you understand in order to prepare for this series. I looked up Abby. I read through every single Conversation that Jesus had with the religious elite of his day And then I selected the ones we're gonna use for this series and then Jonathan I honestly I had the hardest time figuring out which one's the opener, you know Which one do you open with and when I got to this story? I absolutely love it So let me give you your first blank this morning, and I want to kind of go back and unpack some of this story So here's your first blank this morning Jesus attracted attention Jesus attracted attention Now we're gonna go back and sort of break this down a little bit let's look at just verse 17, so here's just verse 17 One day while Jesus was teaching some Pharisees and teachers of the religious law were standing nearby Stop, let's stop right there for a second Why are the Pharisees and teachers of the religious law? Coming to hear Jesus speak Nelson their motivation for being there drives the large part of this story They are not there because they want to learn from Jesus Sabina the teachers of the religious law are not there because they think Jesus is a good teacher No They are there because they think Jesus is a bad influence that he is drawing people away From the true teachings of God and they are there to catch him saying something That they can hold against him to get him arrested. So you gotta understand from the outset of the story Jesus and the teachers of the religious law are in opposition to one another miss Anne We don't see their opposition until later in the story when they finally get a line and they get to speak up But you get it here in the beginning from the very get-go that Pharisees and teachers of the religious law We're standing nearby sort of you know, all huff and gruff Just listening Waiting for Jesus to say something that they can use against him It seemed that these men showed up from every village in Galilee and Judea as well as from Jerusalem Why because Fred this Jesus character? He's causing our church a lot of problems This Jesus character is beginning to teach things that are against the law of Moses that are against what we know God has spoken and We need to find out what he's saying and we need to shut it down and the Lord's healing power was strongly with Jesus now aside from Jesus up at the front teaching and The teachers of the religious law in the back sort of scowling there's another group of people in the story and They're the people who are much like you this morning. There are the people listening to the teacher Not the Jewish teachers and Pharisees religious law but the common man so to speak the every man in the story are the people Who are listening to Jesus teach? They are the ones Julie that are excited about what Jesus has to say They are the ones that truly believe that Jesus is a prophet that Jesus has something worth listening to and So here at the outset of our story, we have two groups of people who are both Intently listening to the teachings of Jesus and yet one group's motivation is I want to learn and The other group's motivation is I want to catch him Now regardless of how you look at it. Jesus has attracted some attention From the second group the every man group the people who are truly seeking Jesus. He has a healing ministry Why else do you think in a minute? We're gonna see the four guys hauling in their friend who in your five-minute moments I named him Todd because he doesn't have a name So Kathy I figured he needs a name so for the rest of this morning's message and this week when you read your devotions The paralyzed mains name is Todd because I thought he needed a name Jesus has the attention of the crowd. He is speaking to but not everyone who's listening is Actually hearing that makes sense. Jesus has the attention, but not everyone who's listening is actually hearing the words that Jesus is teaching All right. Here's your second blank Faith overcame the obstacle Faith Overtame the obstacle Now let's look at the next two verses verse 18 and verse 19 Some men came carrying a paralyzed man on a sleeping mat stop how many men That's exactly correct scripture doesn't say how many people are carrying Todd okay what I can tell you is this There has to be a paralyzed man who we're gonna call Todd and there must be at least two individuals Probably three who are carrying him because it doesn't say a man came carrying a paralyzed man It says some men meaning in conversation plurality There's at least more than one of Todd's friends who are bringing him to Jesus they tried to take him inside to Jesus, but They couldn't reach him because of the crowd stop now. What does that tell you Dan about the popularity of Jesus's ministry? There's some people there, right? You better get up you better get a parking spot early because once the parking team comes in you're on your own to find Where you're gonna be whatever Jesus was teaching and his ministry was so powerful That there was a crowd of people wanting to hear him so much so that the crowd had filled up all of the available routes of ingress to get to Jesus but Todd and his friends Have a mission Jessica Todd and his friends are not exactly in the same Situation as the everyman crowd that is merely listening to Jesus Todd and his friends have a mission miss Diane They need a healing now what I think is awesome is It's not Todd's friends who need the healing it's Todd and Yet Todd's friends are carrying him to Jesus Jonathan just put that picture in your mind. You're not the one who needs healing. It's Terry Terry needs healing so bad. He can't walk So you and I are going to carry him to Jesus Who has more faith the man who needs the healing or the man who doesn't and carries the man who does? Okay, just take in the amount of faith that Todd's unnamed friends have here in this story They try to take him into Jesus, but they couldn't reach him because of the crowd so in an amazingly Home Depot style move they go up on the roof and make a sunroof When there wasn't a sunroof they go up on the roof and get all DIY on this place and literally start dismantling the roof until they make a hole Like you know what? Terry is the kind of man who would do this. I love you. I love you so much I can't ignore this reality if we ever needed to get somebody to Jesus I'm bringing Terry because Terry will straight up go on the roof. He's like wait a minute Yeah, we could totally take out these roof tiles. Hang on a minute. These things are all yeah pop All right. No, but just this is comical miss Jill think about it How many roof tiles did they have to remove before they became a distraction? Right now somebody starts cutting a hole in the ceiling How long before it gets distracting how long before everybody starts tuning out the primary orator and everybody's going what? Because it wasn't just the first tile you know that right animal just the first tile the especially if it was a sunny day the first tile lets this small like beam of light in and then the next tile and Then the next you have to know when Todd's friends committed to this strategy they committed to being disruptive to Jesus himself and Yet Jill the choice they make is the disruption is worth it If their friend can get to Jesus even the physical construct of the building Does what's not enough of a barrier to their faith Dan if there's not a door guess what we're gonna make a window I'm gonna find a way to get my friend Todd who's paralyzed and needs to be healed into Jesus and Melissa They dropped him in the middle of the room. It's not like they went over to the corner over here They're like hey, I was gonna make a small little duct We'll drop you around in the corner, and then I'll shimmy no no no they went to the middle of the room We're about to see they dropped him in the middle of the room right in front of Jesus So Todd's friends have enough faith I Just got to say Fred There are some things in Scripture that when you stop and you put yourself in this scenario are hilarious Adam it's me you and Terry and we're carrying Jessica on a mat Jessica just got turned into Todd. We're carrying Jessica on a mat and You know it's gonna be Terry's the first one go hey we can go through the roof Just oh, it's definitely Terry. Just take that in for a minute take that in Osana You're you're there. You're helping carry your daughter and somebody goes hey Let's cut a hole in the roof. We can get in Like isn't that just comical now Chris how much faith does it take to say? Let's go through the roof You're carrying a paralyzed man you chose the high road You understand that means they had to lift their friend onto the roof to get him down through the roof So they go huh we can go through the roof Then they lowered the sick man on his mat down into the crowd and look at the last five words here right in front of Jesus Todd now you understand Todd's paralyzed. He doesn't get to choose Where he comes down at you know what I mean who chose that his friends did the friends who decided to cut a hole in the roof Chose their hole cutting procedure Based on the proximity to Jesus. What does that tell you about their motivation? They want their friend as close to Jesus as humanly possible. You mean the next blank Melissa. Let's keep going with this Faith found forgiveness Faith found forgiveness We'll go ahead and look at the very next verse says Luke chapter 5 verse 20 Seeing their faith stop Who's they His friends I also don't want you to assume that the day doesn't Include Todd himself it doesn't mean that Todd didn't want to not be paralyzed anymore But what it means is it's not only Todd's faith if it's me and Adam and Terry and Dan's the one we're carrying that doesn't mean that Dan doesn't want to be healed It means that Dan and me Adam and Terry all want him to be healed the faith was a collective Even though the healing was an individual Even though the healing was an individual the faith was collective even though the healing was the individual So Jesus says to the man young man Your sins are forgiven What what Wait a minute me and my friends just cut a hole in a roof and lowered him down in the middle of church and That's what we get my sins are free. You don't think one of the friends went What well wait you heal people, right Exactly what I want you to see here is what Jesus does First it's not that Jesus doesn't heal the guy, right? We're about to see that in the next couple of verses But Melissa, what did Jesus make the priority in Todd's life? the forgiveness of his sins Jesus understood the reality that your Spiritual well-being is more important than your personal comfort Because your spiritual well-being will determine your eternity where your personal comfort no longer matters Jesus makes the priority up front Dan your spiritual health is more important than your personal preference And I can say that because he's a good friend. I know he's not gonna get mad at me Jesus makes the priority Todd's spiritual life Because at this point like all of us he's a sinner The wages of sin is death now also think about this He is a paralyzed man in a first century Jewish culture where you have to go into the temple To get forgiven by giving a sacrifice now How does a paralyzed man walk his way into the temple and offer the correct? Sacrifices for the gift forgiveness of his sins this man is lost He is doomed to hell because even in his time setting He is not able to do that which is required for forgiveness So Jesus walks up and Cory before we get into the healing before we get into the pickup your mat He looks at me says Your sins are forgiven because Jesus understood the truth Your spiritual health is more important than your personal preference than your personal comfort And I will even say than your personal enjoyment Let's take a look at the next point. I'll get off that one quick Jesus challenged religious thinking Here's where we get into you know, they're gonna speak up. We're gonna start to square off in box Jesus challenged religious thinking We'll keep going with the story Here we go. This is actually the end of 20 and then all the way through the part of 24 So Jesus turns to Todd. He says Todd your sins are forgiven But the Pharisees and the teachers of the religious law said to themselves Who's a joker think he is that's blasphemy only God can forgive sins stop Are they wrong Are they wrong isn't it got only God who forgives sins So before we get all big and bad and we want to step on the back of the religious people Let's say this the statement they made is not incorrect. It is only God who forgives sins Their problem is they don't see Jesus the way we do. They don't have the two thousand years worth of hindsight They don't have the written canonized word of God They have the law of Moses and based on their religious perception What Jesus is saying is wrong Only God can forgive sins. That is a correct statement, but their Religiosity has gotten in the way now. Let's talk for a minute. What are the Pharisees and religious leaders in the first century like? well, the Pharisees specifically are a smaller group of Jewish religious teachers, they're very very zealous for the law of Moses so much So that Nelson the Pharisees in order to make sure that they don't break God's law They invented kind of like their own law and put it around God's law like a safety bubble And what they would say to themselves is you know what Jess if I'm good enough Not to violate my own man-made laws that are protecting God's laws I am therefore more righteous than you who only just obey God's laws self righteousness They're trying to be right in the eyes of God using the actions of man and it never works, but the problem is That mentality still exists today. We still have a religious mentality when it comes to I get to define Where God's law stops and starts? So according to their religious perspective who does he think he is only God can forgive sins they're correct Jesus knew they're thinking so he asked Why do you question this in your hearts and then Jesus lays up the ultimate straw man? Is it easier to say your sins are forgiven or stand up and walk? Which one's easier to say? Your sins are forgiven or get up and walk put yourself in the situation Right now we're in church Todd comes down from the ceiling. He's on he's in a wheelchair Which is it easier for me to say and look at him Todd your sins are forgiven or Todd get up and walk No, because if I say get up and walk, and he doesn't get up and walk I'm caught I'm wrong, but if I say your sins are forgiven is there any way for you to double-check whether that happened? No, there's not Kathy there's no way for us to know if God has forgiven Todd sins and that's what Jesus is saying Jesus saying wait a minute Julie isn't it totally easier for me to say? Oh your sins are forgiven. There's no way for you to check There's no backup. There's no checking the source if I say his sins are forgiven. It's your work against mine But if I say get up and walk Your eyes will tell you whether I'm right or not That's the straw man that Jesus sets up miss Diane is totally easier just to tell Todd that his sins are forgiven There's no way for you to prove. I didn't forgive his sins, but when I say Todd go get up and walk If he doesn't at that moment get up and walk all of my teachings are now made invalid Because I'm not who I say I am what Jesus is setting up here is It's what they call the straw man. He's setting up the guy to take the fall You know it's easier to say your sins are forgiven because miss Jill There's no way you can't prove I didn't do that But if I'm about to say so what does he say he says so I will prove to you That the Son of Man which is a messianic term for the Christ that the Son of Man Has the authority to forgive sins Jesus does two things by healing Todd today number one He heals a man who's been paralyzed That's legit by itself if that's the only thing Jesus did Dan that's still totally legit But in using his power over the physical body Jesus also confirms his authority Over the spiritual body does everybody see that? Jesus is setting up that one is stronger than the other and miss Jill if I can totally take say to this man Get up pick up your mat and go home Then you better darn well believe that I can also say your sins are forgiven Melissa. Take me one forward Let's rub this out Jesus left a lasting impression Jesus left a lasting impression Take a look at this 24b to 26 the end of our story Then Jesus turns to the paralyzed man and says three separate commands first stand up to Pick up your mat Three go home. It's a three-step command stand up pick up your mat and go home and Immediately I love that word immediately those who are Tuesday night Wednesday nighters, that's a time word That's a reference to chronology miss Diane There was no downtime between Jesus saying you're healed and the healing coming true There was no waiting period there was no oh well he might have gotten healed naturally. We don't know how much no immediately And immediately as everyone watched the man jumped up Picked up his mat and went home and now we have a qualifier praising God Todd Directly follows Jesus's commands now What's interesting is all we know about Todd is that he's paralyzed so which one of the three commands illustrates the healing The first one the second one or the third one The first illustrates the healing so what's the second one? What is pick up your mat show him? That's right. He's not just healed enough to stand up and hobble home He's healed up enough to obey the Lord in an action which is interesting He picks up the very thing in which he was carried in He picks up the very object on which he was carried and he carries it home And then the final moniker he says and go home. He is not only healed. He is not only Obedient he is following Jesus by the time the healing is over three quick steps. He's healed He's obedient pick up that mat and he's following Jesus's directions Go home in six simple words stand up pick up your mat In six simple words stand up pick up or excuse me pick up your mat and go home And immediately as everyone watched the man jumped up picked up his mat went home And now we have the moniker the man's praising God. I would be too if I were Todd And everyone was gripped with great wonder and awe Do me a favor highlight underline circle long press whatever you got to do your translation may also use the word fear here That's what I want to explain Everyone was gripped with great wonder in awe or your translation may also say the word fear The original word in the greek for what my translation here says as wonder in awe several translations use the word fear the word in the greek is phobos ph obos And all of you english majors all of a sudden made the connection i'm about to make for everyone else the same root word We get what english word from? Phobia that's exactly right Phobos is the same root for which we get our english word phobia Now that's why you can translate this word as fear But the problem with just fear is corey it could feel like i'm, uh scared and afraid of the item itself That's really not the intended use of phobos in this verse ali what it means is Is They were struck with a sense of righteous holy fear That carried with them Does anybody have a phobia? I am uber afraid of heights I am like a little girl when I have to get on a ladder I can I just can't take it We took emily to the doctor and we're on like the fifth floor of the hospital in miami And emily loves to run up to you know They have the huge like 10 foot tall glass windows that you're watching down And I was I I had to step back. I got dizzy like I just can't do it. I'm sorry I can't do the height thing. Um, that's my phobia And you know what? I don't wake up the next day and all of a sudden that phobia is gone I wake up tomorrow. I'm still afraid of heights You know why because it sticks with you. It's the kind of fear that carries with you day after day It's not just i'm afraid of it while in proximity and then when i'm away from it It no longer bothers me the word phobos implies It stuck with them now. I love the way the nlt says wonder and awe because it's not a fear in the sense of Uh evil or threat or a danger, but it's a I mean just think about it put yourself in a story You watch this paralyzed man. Todd comes down from the ceiling He's obviously paralyzed. He's obviously on a mat. He's in a wheelchair. He's on a stretcher Jesus says eight words to the guy And he's up pushing his own wheelchair right out of the church Don't you think you would have gone? Of course you would have we all would have the word phobos here implies that their Their wonder their all their godly fear of what just happened is something that is a greater than themselves and b stuck with them Beyond this one interaction Everyone was gripped with great wonder and awe and they praised god exclaiming We have seen amazing things today. Jesus took the attention That he had at the outset of our story this morning And he focused it on god How do I know that because the story ends with everyone praising god Everyone thanking god Not trying to make jesus king that doesn't happen for quite some more time in the gospels Why do I believe That jesus is greater than religion And I chose this story as the opener for this series Because of one simple fact I believe jesus is greater than religion and I think this story offers me the opportunity to say something to you That needs to be said So i'm going to go ahead and give my next statement a preface It's not meant to offend you. It's not meant to upset you but every now and then a little unfiltered truth is not a bad thing What jesus did here By forgiving the sin of our paralyzed friend named todd Was challenge The self-righteous thinking of the day. I think that's kind of obvious Jesus straight up steps up and he says your sins are forgiven. That's in direct opposition and challenging the religious thinking of his day But for us living in today's society The idea that jesus is the one and only way to have your sins forgiven yet again stands opposed to a lot of our cultural thinking About getting into heaven a lot of our cultural thinking about sin and forgiveness. So sabina How do we pull this story into our modern day context? Jesus challenges the self-righteous thinking of his day by forgiving sin in the same way that jesus challenges the Self-righteous religious thinking of our day by forgiving sin You will not get into heaven by being a good person You will not get into heaven by going to church You will not get into heaven by giving money to charity You will not get into heaven because of your parents religion and you will not get into heaven by anything other than jesus That stands very opposed to a lot of the cultural thinking of our day, but it does not make it any less true That's why I wanted to start with this story Jesus opens the box with i am going to forgive your sins and then i'm going to heal you I'm going to give you what you asked, but I am going to make sure you understand something first Jesus is more concerned with your eternal destiny than your current comfort He is more concerned with the state of your soul than the state of your checkbook That stands very difficult for us who live in an american money-based society but it's true For jesus to be greater than religion we must rely on jesus for our relationship with god And not all of the other things that we have in our culture that are supposedly spiritual and godly For jesus to be greater than religion Only jesus saves Only jesus saves That's why I wanted to start with this message because that's the foundation of our entire faith Miss vicki, there is no christianity if there is no resurrection There is no savior if there is no resurrection On the day that we remember that christ rose from the grave. It's got to be okay to say if you don't know him You go to hell And I love you, and I really don't want you to do that I love that But if this story amplifies anything It amplifies that jesus had the power to forgive sin in his earthly ministry And he most definitely has the authority to do so now and no amount of good living Is going to get you there That's a tough tough statement Because so many in our culture today want to say you know what it's true for you or fred my favorite one Well, why do you get to choose what's true? I love that. I love that. Well, how why do you get to decide what's true? That's not true for me No, no, no, i'm sorry like two plus two is four It's never going to be six. It's never going to be three Truth is truth because its nature is true not because you decide to think it's true Truth is always like veritology one-on-one. There is truth truth by its very nature is exclusive And that's not something we should apologize for