This morning we are going to start a two-part message. This morning we'll start the message. Next Sunday we will end the message. And it's really going to be an intimate look at the character of Saul of Tarsus. Obviously many of you know Saul has an amazing face-to-face encounter with the Lord Jesus, so much so that it changes his entire life's mission and it changes his name. Saul of Tarsus becomes who? The Apostle Paul. What is the Apostle Paul's most significant contribution to the Bible? He wrote almost a third of the New Testament. Almost a third of the New Testament was written by this man, but when he started his ministry, he was killing Christians. A man who doesn't have to strike you as odd, a man who begins his ministry hunting down, jailing, and killing followers of Jesus becomes radically changed by God, so much so that he changes his name from Saul to Paul. He spends the rest of his life serving God. I wanted to take this two weeks we have before Easter begins and talk about life change. And Ms. Anne, I could not come up with a better character portrait of life change than Saul. So this week's message is entitled, Saul, Resume of a Radical. I want to talk to you, Jonathan, about who Saul of Tarsus is before he becomes the Apostle Paul. Who is Saul before Paul? You'll see there, you can follow along with me on the back of your pen. I've got some blanks for you to fill out. I want us to sort of jump back in time, if you will, and take a look at a snapshot, a portrait. I almost called the message snapshot, Nelson, because I thought it would be a cool brand if we ever went back and looked at other characters to just call it snapshot. But then Melanie called him a radical, and I thought that was cooler, so we went with it. Fun facts for your background knowledge this morning. All right, we're just going to jump right into the story, and kind of develop and watch Saul as he grows up. So if you'll turn with me, as you can see on the back of your bulletin, the majority of this morning is going to be in the book of Acts. That is the fifth book in the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, Acts. And our first scripture, let me give you your first blank this morning. Oops, that's a song. There we go. First blank this morning. Saul was born and raised religious. Saul was born and raised religious. Now let's take a look in the book of Acts, chapter 22. So Acts chapter 22, you're going to want to put a bookmark in there. Three of our points this morning come from Acts chapter 22. Acts chapter 22, verse 3, this is the New Century version, the NCV. This is Paul speaking about himself. Doug, this is him describing his life. I'm a Jew born in Tarsus in the country of Cilicia, but I grew up in this city. I was a student of Gamaliel who carefully taught me everything about the law of our ancestors. I was very serious about serving God, just as all of you, all of you, all, just as are all of you here today. It's almost like I read for a living. Now, what is Paul doing in Acts chapter 22? He is preaching. He is preaching to an audience not unlike the one we have this morning. So if you'll let me for a moment step into the character of Saul, he's preaching to you. He's talking about himself. And he says, Ali, I'm a Jew. I was born in Tarsus in the country of Cilicia, but I grew up in this city. Stop. What city is he in when he's preaching this sermon? That's right. He's in the city of Jerusalem. So I'm Saul. I was born in Tarsus in the country of Cilicia, but I grew up in Jerusalem, baby. You know how long it takes you to be a New Yorker? Live there for a day. You get to call yourself a New Yorker. You might not have been born there, and New Yorkers who were born there will still sort of look down on you a little bit. But you live in New York for one day, survive a full 24 hours living in the city, and you can call yourself a New Yorker. Paul grew up in Jerusalem. I was a student of Gamaliel. Now, let's stop for a second. Who is Gamaliel? Well, Maria, remember, we're in the first century. Jesus has just risen. The Holy Spirit has just come down. The church is in the very beginning stages. We're not really even organized yet. Gamaliel is one of the most prominent Jewish Pharisee teachers of the law in Jerusalem at the time. Gamaliel is the Billy Graham of first century Judaism. When I say the words Billy Graham, anybody who's been a Christian in this country for more than five years knows that name. Anybody who was a Christian in the 80s might have even heard him preach. I heard him speak when I was like seven years old. I remember like the whole church went to the like Megadome in Philly, and we watched Billy Graham preach. And I don't remember a darn thing he said, but I remember there was a lot of people there listening. Billy Graham is one of the most prominent evangelists to live and come out of America. Gamaliel is the Billy Graham of his day, but he's a Jewish Billy Graham. He's a Pharisee. He still teaches the law. Gamaliel does not believe that Jesus is the Messiah. Lynette, that's the super important part to get out of that. I'm a Jew. I was born in Tarsus, but I grew up right here in Jerusalem. I was a student of Gamaliel, the most important teacher of the day. Terry, I was a student of the big dog. I'm right there with him. I learned right from him. And Gamaliel carefully taught me everything about the law of our ancestors. If you went to the University of Gamaliel, you could go to any synagogue and be qualified to teach because of his name. His name was so well respected that this is originally how Saul had a platform to be able to do some of the things he did. Terry, he was taught by the best. And you know what? Even the guys who are taught by the best are usually better than the rest. So this is Saul admitting, listen, I was carefully trained in all of the law by the best teacher of our day. And I was very serious about serving God, just as are all of you. Now in a minute we're going to unpack how serious Saul of Tarsus was. What I want to establish here is, whilst he is not born in the city of Jerusalem, he was raised in it. He was raised in it. It's what he knows. He knows Jerusalemese like the back of his hand because he was raised in it. He was taught by the most important teacher of his day. I was born and raised in a Christian family. By the time I reached my teenage years, I could talk Christianese like the best of them. Now does that mean that my heart was always in the right place? No, it doesn't. I willingly admit that. But I can walk it and I can talk it. And unless you get to know me personally, you wouldn't know the difference. There were years that I lived as a hypocrite in the church and you would have never known. Because I learned all the lingo, Lynette. I learned all the fancy lingo and I knew to keep up with certain like worship albums that came out. So when somebody played it at church, I knew what it sounded like. And like you can play a good game. Now this is Saul at the top of the Jewish game in the first century. Let's take a look at your second blank. Saul was born and raised religious. Here's your second one. Saul was holier than thou. Saul was, and I even gave you the quotes there on your notes, quote holier than thou. And whenever you say it, you really just got to do the air quotes with it. Because it doesn't make sense without it. Saul was holier than thou. Now keep your finger in the book of Acts. Turn with me to the book of Philippians. It's a bit further down. Acts, Romans, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians. It'll be right there. Philippians chapter 3. We're going to look at the latter half of verse 4, verse 6. So this is Philippians chapter 3, verse 4b to 6. And here we're going to read it in the New Living translation. This is again Paul talking about himself. Indeed, if others have reason for confidence in their own efforts, I have more. I was circumcised when I was eight days old. I am a pure-blooded citizen of Israel. I am a member of the tribe of Benjamin, a real Hebrew if there ever was one. I was a member of the Pharisees who demanded the strictest obedience to the Jewish law. I was so zealous that I harshly persecuted the church. And as for righteousness, I obeyed the law without fault. This is Paul. Now, of course, we realize Paul is the person who wrote Philippians, but he's talking about his life as Saul. Again, same person, pre-conversion and post-conversion. Paul is talking about his life as Saul. Now, many of you are probably familiar with the term holier than thou. And yes, it does come with quotes. Holier than thou. Do me a favor, slide me back one slide, because I want to sort of point out a couple of things in here. Paul was, without a doubt, the creme de la creme of first-century phariseeical living. If there was a Pharisee Today magazine, Paul was a contributing author on a regular basis. If Pharisee Today was on Jerusalem newsstands every other week, Paul was a contributing author probably on the cover a couple of times, definitely had some ad space, okay? He is a deal in first-century phariseeical life. And the reason, and you have to understand, let's rewind for a second, who are the Pharisees? Because this is central to understanding the character of Saul of Tarsus. In first-century Judaism, there were several different groups, not really denominations because they were all Jews, but different sects, different groups that had slightly different viewpoints. And the Pharisees, while they were the smaller of the two groups, does anybody remember the name of the other group? Sadducees, that's exactly right. The Pharisees and the Sadducees. The Sadducees were the larger group in number, but the Pharisees were the more influential group. They're more passionate, they're more legalistic. See, in order to keep the law, the Pharisees would say, The Pharisees would say, Amanda, God says don't do labor on the Lord's Day, don't do labor on the Sabbath. So in order to make sure that we follow that law, Jonathan, I'm going to invent my own laws so that if I obey my laws, then I'm not even close to almost not obeying God's laws. That's the basis of legalism. Ms. Vicki, when you have to invent your own righteousness so that you be sure to live God's righteousness, you're not really living God's righteousness anymore, you're living your own righteousness. You're living your own law, not following God's law. This is exactly what the Pharisees did. Paul is, remember, creme de la creme, Pharisee today, contributing author. If anybody had reason to have confidence in who they was, and in their own efforts, I had even more. I was circumcised when I was eight days old. Stop. Now what does that tell you about the family that Saul of Tarsus came from? I don't think eight-year-old Saul hopped up with his New Testament huggies on and ran his way to the temple in order to get... No, his parents took him, just like any parent still has to take care of a baby at eight days old. But what does that tell you about Saul of Tarsus' family? They were very traditional, very righteous. They made sure that he was circumcised according to the law of Moses. So he was raised in a religious household. Second, I am a pure-blooded citizen of Israel, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. Now, small rabbit trail, if you've never heard of the ten lost tribes of Israel, tune me out for the next 30 seconds. There is a theory out there that after the captivity in the Old Testament, we lost ten of the tribes of Israel. This verse points out exactly why that can't be true. Benjamin was one of the tribes that would have been lost. There's no way Saul of Tarsus knows what tribe he's from, if the tribe doesn't exist anymore. So he knows, I'm a pure-blooded citizen of Israel. I'm a member of the tribe of Benjamin, a real Hebrew, if there ever was one. He's touting his family's righteous upbringing, his religious connection, because remember, bloodline is everything to the Jews. Bloodline is everything to a first century Jew. Not only, Melissa, was I born and raised in a household that was more righteous than you, I'm genetically predisposed to be more righteous than you because of my family's lineage. Now, pop it forward, let's look at what else he says. Next, please. Yes. I am a member of the Pharisees, and we talked about that. These are the guys that invent their own laws to make sure they follow all the Jewish laws. I am a member of the Pharisees who demanded the strictest obedience to the Jewish law. And then he ends with this. I was so zealous that I harshly persecuted the church. Now, whose church? Here's where we change gears. Our church, the Church of Jesus Christ. He was so adamant and passionate about his faith, his Jewish faith, his phariseeical faith. He was so adamant, he was so passionate that he persecuted the Christian church. We'll talk more about that in the next point. And as for righteousness, I obeyed the law without fault. Now, what does that tell you about his mentality? He's confident in his self-righteousness. He's confident that his own actions have earned him right standing with God. Let's take a look at your next blank. Saul was born and raised religious. Saul was holier than thou. Saul lived a life of conviction. I want a button that has the law and order. Just a second. Saul lived a life of conviction. What's that? Wrench. In a world. Saul lived a life of conviction. Now, you had your finger in the book of Acts. Let's jump back to the book of Acts chapter 22. We're still looking at Saul, or Paul, describing his life as Saul. We're going to look at Acts chapter 22, verses 4 and 5. Acts 22, 4 and 5. And here we have it for you on the screen. This is the English Standard Version, or the ESV. I persecuted this way. Stop. Do you see the capital W on way? That's a proper noun. The way is the first name for Christianity ever. We were called the way, the followers of the way. Because at the time, that's what it was, Nelson. This is the way what? The way for what? The way to be safe. That's literally all Christianity has always been about, is the way to be safe. So when you see in the text, the way, that means Christian church. I persecuted this way to the death, binding and delivering to prison both men and women. The high priest and the whole council of elders can bear witness. From them I received letters to the brothers, and I journeyed toward Damascus to take those also who were there and bring them in bonds to Jerusalem to be punished. ESV is very, very eloquent in its word choice. Let me break this down for you. Melissa, I am Saul of Tarsus. You are one of the ruling elders of the council of Jerusalem. You and Amanda, you're both ruling elders. Saul of Tarsus, I am so angry. I'm so angry with these Jesus followers. These people are disobeying the law, the law of Moses. Jesus freaks, to use a great term. I am so irritated with these Jesus people. These Nazarenes, we were called Nazarenes at one point because we follow Jesus of Nazareth. Melissa, I'm so irritated with these vile Nazareneites. I need a letter from you. Give me permission to go travel around all the towns and jail these jokers before it gets any worse. That's what he did. He went to the high priest and the ruling council of elders. He said, Miss Diane, all I need is your permission. Give me permission to go beat up and jail and kill in the name of Yahweh. And I'll go do it. Now, sounds super rough, right? But step back for a second. Why did he do this? This is uber important to understanding the psychology of Saul of Tarsus. Jonathan, why does Saul of Tarsus request the letters in the first place? Yes, but he's so pat, why to follow the law? Because we're not. Because we have Jesus. What did Jesus say? I did not come to abolish the law. I came to fulfill the law. In Jesus, we don't have to obey the law anymore. But Julie, I'm Saul of Tarsus. I was just on the cover of Pharisee today. I have a major problem with you not wanting to obey the law of Moses that we've had for a thousand years. Why do you think you're so good? Why do you think you're – I was trained by Gamaliel, who on earth is Jesus of Nazareth. Why do you think your teacher is enough? That's just his attitude. He's very angry. But his anger comes from what we call righteous indignation. His anger does not come from being personally hurt or offended. His anger comes because he's trying to defend the law of Moses. His anger actually comes from a religious and righteous motivation. That's super important to understand. He is not hunting down Christians because he likes to kill. He is hunting down Christians because he loves God. I know that sounds backwards, but that is the true reason. He said, listen, the high priest and the whole council of elders will bear witness. I'm going to get letters from them to the brothers. Who are the brothers? The teachers and all the local synagogues. I'm going to travel over to North Fort Myers. I'm going to find those crazy people who call themselves the way, and they drink blood and they break bodies and they call each other brother and sister. They're incestuous. They are gross. They're disgusting. We're going to rid the earth of them. Why? Because they're poisoning my church. Jessica, every day more and more good-meaning Jews are walking away from the law, and they're joining this cult, which is actually what we were considered at the first point. We were looked at as a cult breaking away from first century Judaism. Now, is that the case? Kind of. We did originate, our savior was Jewish, right? All the original twelve apostles, they were Jews. But what Saul of Tarsus is missing is that Jesus fulfilled the law. We know that today. We have the benefit of the written word of God. He did not have that at that point. He was so focused, he was so scope-locked on the idea that Christians are bad, that he couldn't see anything else other than I have to eradicate this threat to my church. And in that, I got to give the man credit, he lived his convictions. Julie, he was so convinced that this cult of Nazarene followers is going to bring about the downfall of my church. I'm going to kill those jokers. And I'm going to protect the righteousness of God's house. It's a conviction. Now, yes, he's wrong, but he's not wrong in his passion. That's really what I want you to see. There have been plenty of times I've done the wrong thing for the right reasons. In my journey with God, there's been plenty of people I stepped on the wrong way, because I didn't have grace, I didn't have patience. I'm still working on that part. You can do the wrong thing, but motivated by the right heart. And that's where Saul is, right before the Damascus road. He gets these letters, and he intentionally goes out with passion, with conviction, to jail all the followers of Jesus. Once he gets these letters, he goes where? Damascus. That's his first stop, Lynette. We're going to go to Fort Myers, and we're going to go jail all these silly Nazarene followers. Then, go back to Acts 22, look at verse 6. We're going to look at verse 6 through 10. Let me give you the blank that goes with it. Saul learned he was wrong. Saul learned he was wrong. Saul learned he was wrong. Right there, Acts chapter 22. Let's take a look at the next couple of verses, starting in verse 6. This is the Holman Christian Standard Bible. As I was traveling and near Damascus, so I got my letters. Melissa and Amanda, they signed off on my letters. I'm going to go hunt these Nazarene followers. I am on the way to Damascus as I traveled and near Damascus. About noon, an intense light from the heavens suddenly flashed around me. I fell to the ground, and I heard a voice saying, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? I answered, who are you, Lord? He said to me, I am Jesus the Nazarene, the one you are persecuting. Now, those who were with me saw the light, but they did not hear the voice of the one who was speaking to me. Then I said, what should I do? And the Lord told me, get up and go into Damascus, and there you will be told about everything that is assigned for you to do. This is the pivot point, the pivot moment for the life of Saul of Tarsus. He gets the letters in passionate religious, zealous conviction. He heads out to Damascus to jail and kill the followers of this supposed savior. And then right outside the city, boom, the voice from heaven. Now, I have to be honest. This has never happened to me in my everyday life. I have never had a moment where the Lord audibly spoke to me from heaven. I cannot even fathom what it would feel like to be Saul of Tarsus on the Damascus road. I know that the Lord has spoken to me. He's spoken to me through his word. He's spoken to me in prayer, and those were intense. Kathy, can you imagine the intensity of the audible voice of God booming from the heavens? This is what Saul experiences. And he says, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Can you go back one slide for me? I want to show you the first five words he speaks. Who are you, Lord? Circle, underline, long press, and highlight. Do whatever you need to do to that word, Lord, in that first question. He hears him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? He could have stopped. Who are you? But he adds the clarifier. Who are you, Lord? Makes all the difference in the sentence, doesn't it, Nelson? Makes all the difference in how you see Saul responding to the voice of God. Now, let's take everything we've already talked about Saul of Tarsus. He's born and raised in a religious home. He's taught the word of God from an early age. He studies under the most authentic, the most highly regarded teacher of his day. Do you think he knew about all the times in the Old Testament where the Lord spoke to his people? Yes, I'm sure he knew them. He revered Moses, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. The Lord spoke to tons of people in the Old Testament. He knew that God was able to speak from heaven. But there is a difference between knowing God can speak and hearing him speak to you. And here, all of a sudden, Saul of Tarsus goes from knowing about God up here to experiencing him in a life-changing way. And you see that. Who are you, Lord? That word Lord there instantly puts Saul of Tarsus in submission to the voice. He clearly identifies this voice from heaven as God, as bigger than him as I am in submission to my Lord. And then he said, I am Jesus the Nazarene, the one you are persecuting. Flip it again. Look at the next thing he says. Now those who are with me saw the light, but they did not hear the voice. I'm going to break that down in a minute. And then I said, what should I do, Lord? And again, Lord, I am in submission. I'm placing myself under the authority of this voice that I hear. Lord, I recognize that it's you first. Who are you? Second, what do you want me to do? What I love about Saul of Tarsus, just the same reason I love Peter, the amount of ADHD it takes to be full steam this way, and then in a moment, full steam this way. I love that. In a split second, Saul goes, whoop, I was wrong. Great God, let's move. Let's go. I mean, you see that, right? Okay, Lord, you're God, so we're going this way. All right. What should I do? Now, super interesting, the very beginning here, but those who are with me saw the light, but they did not hear the voice of the one who was speaking. Jonathan, there are times in your life where the Lord speaks to you and only you, and no one else around you is going to get it. This is one of those times for Saul. If you've ever been in a moment where you truly heard the Lord speak to you, Jill, sometimes it's hard to describe, it's hard to explain that moment to anybody else because they didn't feel it. They didn't have the Holy Spirit resonating inside of them, confirming that this is the voice of God, and Saul says, what do you want me to do, Lord? And the Lord told me, get up and finish your trip to Damascus. The Lord knew where he was going. The Lord knew what he was doing. Get up and go into Damascus, and there you'll be told, and I love the way the HCSB says this, there you will be told about everything that is assigned for you to do. When we started the story, Saul is on a mission, right, Ali? He's on a mission to jail, to kill, to stop this Nazarene cult from destroying the Holy Church of God, and on the way to Damascus, he gets slapped in the face and finds out the very cult he is trying to destroy is the Church of God. Okay? I've got to rethink my mission here. I've got to rethink what I feel like I'm supposed to do for God. Don't worry about that. Go into Damascus, we're going to get you hooked up with some new lessons, okay? We're going to hook you up and give you your explanation. Take a look at your last blank. Saul learned he was wrong, and here's your last one. Saul had to change his ways. Saul had to change his ways. Now if you're in the book of Acts, turn a little bit more to the forward of it. Acts chapter 9, we're going to look at Acts chapter 9 verses 17 through 20, and this will be in the NIV or the New International Version. So Acts chapter 9 verse 17 to 20 in the NIV. Just so I can fill you in, what has happened on the story? The moment that Saul hears the voice of God, he goes into Damascus. The moment that Saul hears the voice of God, he goes blind. We're going to see that in Scripture in a minute. He goes blind. He's blind for three days. While he's blind for those three days, the Lord speaks to a disciple of Jesus who's in Damascus named Ananias, and he says, Ananias, there's a man in this town. If you actually read the full text, it says, go to Simon the Tanner's house over on Straight Street. Miss Kathy, do me a favor. Go to 156 Cape Coral Parkway. It is uber specific for Ananias where to go to find Paul. Ananias says to God, wait a minute. God, isn't this the cat that's just been throwing everybody else in jail? I had to preach for Brother so-and-so last week because he done got jailed. And now you want me to pray for this man? God responds to Ananias. He says, this is my chosen vessel. I've chosen him for a reason. I need a job, and he's the man. Go pray for him. So Ananias heads over, and here we pick up the story. Then Ananias went to the house and entered it. Placing his hands on Saul, he said, Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road as you were coming here has sent me so that you may see again and be filled with the Holy Spirit. Immediately something like scales fell from Saul's eyes, and he could see again. He got up and was baptized. After taking some food, he regained his strength. Saul spent several days with the disciples in Damascus. At once he began to preach in the synagogues that Jesus was the Son of God. What I love about the story of Saul is he's a radical at the beginning and at the end, just on two different teams. He's a radical as a Jew, Pharisee of Pharisees. And he's a radical as a Christian, planting churches and writing Scripture. And I mean, the man is just, in my opinion, of the Apostle Paul, is probably the second most famous person in the New Testament, second to Jesus. I mean, the Apostle Paul did a lot of great works. But it's not until here that we see the full story. Because if all we did was stop at the Damascus Road, then Miss Vicki, all we really found out was Saul got told he was wrong. You know there's a difference between knowing you're wrong and doing what's right? I can know, Abby, I can know that what I'm doing is wrong. And yet accept that what I'm doing is wrong and still continue to do wrong. There is a difference between knowing or being told what you're doing is wrong and turning around and doing what is right. Now Saul is in Damascus for three days, and for three days he has these scale-like things that are covering his eyes. He's blind. Now, that blindness is literal, Miss Diane, it is literal. For three days Saul of Tarsus could not see. But I think it's also figurative. The Lord was showing him, you know what? For all that, you know, tribe of Benjamin, trained by Gamaliel, Pharisee today, contributing author, phariseeical, religious, you are blind to the truth. You can be born and raised in a religious family, grow up in a religious city, talk all that great religious talk, and Jonathan, still be as blind as a bat. Still be as blind as a bat to what God wants to do in your life. That's where we're going to take a pause on the story of Saul this week. I was born and raised in a religious home. I went to church all the time as a kid. I was in like the Awana program when I was four and five. I still have the vest to prove it. It's at my house. Like, no, I don't still wear it. I think it fits on one shoulder, maybe. No, but I still do. My parents kept it and they gave it to me a few years ago. I was born and raised in a religious home. Like Saul, I learned very quickly, very early, how to talk the church talk. But there comes a point when the actions of your life must live out the words you say you believe about faith. If not, you're still stuck in the Damascus Road part, not the I'm now, you know, to use a phrase, I was blind, but now I see. That was Saul. I was blind. Quite literally, he was blind for three days. But I think the Lord allowed him to experience that because look at how braggie he was about himself. Like, I'm from a tribe, a Benjamin. I'm a true Hebrew if there ever was one. You know, he was very confident in his self-righteousness. And I think if we're honest today, there's probably more than one of us in this room that has at one point in our life been confident in self-righteousness, not God's righteousness. There is a difference between living a passionate lifestyle of conviction that you're holier than other people, that you desire to serve God, and you're still doing it wrong. That's Saul of Tarsus. It's not that he didn't love God. It's not that he didn't go to church. It's not that he didn't choose a career working in the church. It's that after all of that, he still didn't have a heart in submission to Jesus. He was in submission to his own self-righteous little clique. This morning I got to ask, as much as you've gone to church, whether today is the very first church service you've ever sat in, if so, sorry. The very first church service you've ever been in, or if you've been in church your whole life, how much of the time you spend in your faith is built on man's system of righteousness? And how much is built on Jesus' forgiveness working itself out in your life? Because the latter half accepts all your faults and failures. You know what? We had them before Jesus even saved us. I was already an ADHD messed up kid before Jesus. Jesus just helps me round it out a little bit, sometimes more than others. What I love about Saul of Tarsus is as radical as he was, as passionate as he was, he was so close to right, and yet he was still wrong. Have you ever stopped to think that maybe that's you, that's me? We're so close to right. We love God, we come from a Christian family, we can say all the right things, we go to church all the time. But are we asking the two most important questions? Lord, who are you? And what do you want me to do? Are we just saying, I love you Jesus, I'm going to sing my worship songs, I'm going to go to church, I'm going to get a free offering, but I'm not going to ask the very, very dangerous question, Lord, what do you want me to do? Because maybe I don't want to hear the answer. That's what I want to challenge you with this morning. Lord, what do you want me to do?