We are continuing our series entitled Hall of Heroes, Kings of Gold. And what Hall of Heroes is, is I have sort of established a tradition over the last few years, of every summer doing a series that features characters, that features some of the narrative based stories that are in the Bible, and gives us a broad introduction to characters throughout biblical history. The first Hall of Heroes was a lot of military and governmental leaders. Last year we did famous women from the Bible. This year, Miss Josephine, we're taking a slightly different twinge. We're looking at the first three kings of ancient Israel. Can someone tell me who was the first king of Israel? We talked about him for a couple of weeks. Saul, that's right. And then after Saul came David, that's right. And this morning we're going to talk about who comes after him. Solomon, that's right. So Saul and then David, and now Solomon. The title of this morning's message is, Solomon the Wise King. Solomon the Wise King. And if you will look on the back of your bulletin, you'll notice that there are some blanks there. What I'd like to ask you to do is follow along with me this morning as we go through our message. Even if you want to leave your bulletin here, that's totally fine. But if you'll follow along with me and fill in some of the blanks, I hope that will help you to get a little bit more out of our message. Now we're going to be there. You can see we're going to be in 1 Kings, chapter 3. We're going to look at the first 16 verses of 1 Kings, chapter 3. So if you brought your Bibles with you, whether they're physical or digital, please turn or click with me into the book of 1 Kings, chapter 3. And I believe on the screen I have it for you in the New Living translation this morning. So it may slightly read a little. Yeah, it is NLT, right? It is. Alright, so 1 Kings, chapter 3. I'm going to begin reading in verse 1. We're going to take it all the way to 16, and this is the New Living translation. This is what it sounds like. Solomon made an alliance with Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and married one of his daughters. He brought her to live in the city of David until he could finish building his palace and the temple of the Lord and the wall around the city. At that time, the people of Israel sacrificed their offerings at local places of worship for a temple honoring the name of the Lord had not yet been built. Solomon loved the Lord and followed all the decrees of his father, David, except that Solomon too offered sacrifices and burnt incense at the local places of worship. The most important of these places was at Gibeon, so the king went there and sacrificed a thousand burnt offerings. That night, the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream, and God said, What do you want? Ask, and I will give it to you. Solomon replied, You showed great and faithful love to your servant, my father, David, because he was honest and true and faithful to you. And you have continued to show this great and faithful love to him today by giving him a son to sit on his throne. Now, O Lord, my God, you have made me king instead of my father, David, but I am like a little child who doesn't know his way around. And here I am in the midst of your own chosen people, a nation so great and numerous they cannot be counted. Give me an understanding heart so that I can govern people well and know the difference between right and wrong. For who by himself is able to govern this great people of yours? Now, the Lord was pleased that Solomon had asked for wisdom. So God replied, Because you have asked for wisdom in governing my people with justice and have not asked for long life or wealth or the death of your enemies, I will give you what you asked for. I will give you a wise and understanding heart, such as no one else has had or ever will have. And I will also give you what you did not ask for, riches and fame. No other king in all the world will be compared to you for the rest of your life. And if you will follow me and obey my decrees and my commands as your father David did, I will give you a long life. Then Solomon woke up and realized it had been a dream. He returned to Jerusalem and stood before the Ark of the Lord's Covenant, where he sacrificed burnt offerings and peace offerings. Then he invited all his officials to a great banquet. Now, what I'd like to do is I want to give you the first blank in your bulletin, and then I want to go back through what we just read and sort of take it in some chunks, because I think there's some really cool details in here. So, your first blank this morning is, Solomon trusted in worldly things. Solomon trusted in worldly things. Solomon trusted in worldly things. Let's look at the very first verse from our reading this morning, just verse one. Solomon made an alliance with Pharaoh the king of Egypt. Stop. Why? Remember, we're talking about 957 BC. Why is it important to make alliances with other nations around you? Well, there's two main advantages to an alliance. The first is military, the second is economic. We have military alliances today. If I have a military alliance with another super big powerful nation near me, I know if somebody tries to come to my door and starts some ruckus, I'm going to grab my ancient Mesopotamian boost mobile phone, and I'm going to text over to Pharaoh and be like, Yo, player, somebody's at my door causing some ruckus. Can you please send me some help? And so, there's a definite military advantage to having an alliance with a nation as big as Egypt, but there's also an economic advantage. He gets to be able to have open and free trade, and obviously that means that if Egypt and Israel are both trading, they would jointly be protecting the trade routes between, I know, right? They'd jointly be protecting the trade routes in between their countries. That's not a bad thing, okay? It's not a bad thing to have an alliance. But let's look at what happens next. And married one of his daughters. All throughout the Old Testament, God's people were called to be separate, called to be different, called to be chosen, to be pulled out. I mean, think about the story of Moses. When God redeems his people from Egypt, what was the purpose? Why did he say, Pharaoh, let my people go? So they may go to the wilderness and worship me. God has always wanted a people separated for himself. And all throughout the Old Testament, we've seen that time after time after time, God's people continue to intermarry with the local pagan people, and it causes major problems. So whilst having an alliance with Pharaoh was not a bad deal, marrying one of Pharaoh's daughters is not necessarily something that is looked on as positive. He brought her to live in the city of David, which is what city? Think of your Christmas story. No? Yes, ma'am. Unto us this day in the city of David is born a king, Bethlehem. Bethlehem is the city of David. Until he could finish building what? His palace, the temple of the Lord, and a wall around the city. So Solomon had a couple things going on. Solomon had a couple projects in the works. What's super important that I want you to understand is two things. Number one, Solomon marrying the daughter of a pagan king, not a good thing. He could have made a trade alliance without the marriage. You don't need the marriage to make the alliance. People would intermarry their daughters off to other kings as a way to substantiate an alliance, but Lynette, we could have drafted some papers. Your people have lunch with my people, and we write up a nice little thing, and poof, Bob's your uncle. We have an alliance. He didn't need to marry the pagan woman to do it. And if you want to go ahead and read ahead, what you will find is Solomon has a problem with the ladies, and he consistently marries women that God does not approve of. But the other thing I want you to notice is this. The temple has not been built yet. The temple has not been built yet. And that's super important to get you to my next point. But when the Lord called his people, when Moses brought the people out of Egypt, what did God have them build for himself as his temporary home? What did they build? It starts with a T. The tabernacle. That's right. God had them first build the tabernacle. Why? Because it was movable. God built a mobile home before he built his big house. So in God's mobile home, the tabernacle, that's where his presence rests, because the temple has not been built yet. Super important. Point number two. Solomon worshiped God on his own terms. Solomon worshiped God on his own terms. Solomon worshiped God on his own terms. Let's take a look at verses two, three, and four of our reading. At the time, the people of Israel sacrificed offerings at local places of worship. If you have a different translation, it may say high places. High places is actually more of a literal translation, but the implied understanding is these high places were small local places. Now remember from the last point, the temple has not been built yet. God's permanent dwelling and residence has not been finished. That means where does God live right now in 957 B.C.? Where does God's spirit reside with his people, but where specifically? The tabernacle. That's right. Keep that on the side burner right next to the mashed potatoes. God's presence is in the tabernacle. The tabernacle is in the tabernacle. The tabernacle is in the tabernacle. But the people of Israel sacrificed offerings at the local places or at the high places. I have to tell you what these are because it's super important. What was the name of the land that God promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob? It begins with a C. Canaan, right? After the Exodus story and Moses and the wandering, we get to Joshua and his brother Cain. And then they go into the land of Canaan and they begin to take the land that God has promised to the Israelites. So we're following through the biblical story. What happens when they get to the land that Canaanites own? The Canaanites worship their own pagan gods. The Canaanites have their own systems of worship. The high places or the way the NLT calls these local places of worship, pagan, pagan, pagan, pagan, pagan, pagan, pagan, pagan, pagan, pagan, pagan, pagan, pagan, pagan. No, you see what the NLT calls these local places of worship? Pagan shrines, altars, and temples. That's what the high places are or the local places of worship. They are not places that were designed for the worship of Jehovah God. They are places that were built with Asherah poles and pagan shrines and child sacrifice. I mean, pagan houses of worship. Now you begin to see a problem. God wanted his people to worship him, the tabernacle where his presence was. God wanted worship to be a unifying experience, both for the children of Israel and the Old Testament, and I would also argue that that holds through to the New Testament church. Worship is one of those things we gather together to do because it is a unifying experience. God wanted his people to come together and worship him, but they're like, you know what? Dude, the tabernacle, you know, it's like 40 clicks away. It takes all day to get there. I think it's going to rain in the afternoon. Why not just go to the pagan temple? It's got to be good enough. We'll worship God here. And that's exactly what they began to do. Instead of following God's instructions in Numbers and Deuteronomy to destroy the high places, he was very clear. When you go in the land, destroy the pagan shrines, destroy the places of child sacrifice, destroy the poles on which you would hang people and let them starve to death as a sacrifice of worship. Let's not use those to worship Jehovah God. God was pretty clear. Numbers and Deuteronomy do die places, but they don't. They keep them. And in their own sort of kind of self-religious way, Nelson, they declare them to be houses of worship for Jehovah. And I think what they were trying to do is trying to make worship easy for everybody. Let me give you a local place. Jonathan, you don't got to go all the way to Tabernacle. I'm going to give you the Tabernacle light. I'm going to give you like a worship drive-through over Bethlehem so you don't have to go all the way over to Tabernacle. But is that the way God wanted his people to worship him? No. And herein lies the first problem we see with Solomon. God wanted to be worshiped where his spirit was. They took pagan shrines. And yes, they claimed that they dedicated them to the Lord. I don't have a problem. You can dedicate something to the Lord. But let me try to put it in a modern-day context for you. We have Jesus. We have the ability to worship God wherever we want because we have God's presence who lives with us. So you got to take yourself out of the idea that you're allowed to worship God wherever you want because that's a normal thing for us today. For the Old Testament, God wanted his people to come to him to worship him. Now there's something, Sean, that we can get behind, right? We come to God, i.e. through Jesus. So if I were to tell you that I am a Christian, you meet me at Starbucks or Dunkin' and we sit down and Dan, you start asking me if I believe in God. I totally believe in God. And I know a lot of people come to God through Jesus, but I come through God through, I don't know, bacon. No, don't mess with my bacon now, okay? Brunch is coming in two weeks. Don't tease me. No. What is the name of the Hindu god that has the six arms? It's a woman. Vishnu. Vishnu. Vishnu, Vashti. No, Vashti is the Greek god of whatever. I think it's Vishnu. Vishnu. If I were to tell you that I worship the god of the Bible, but the way in which I come to God is through the Indian pagan god of Vishnu, does that sound like something that's Christian? Now do you start to see? We come to God through Jesus. If we just started creating, I mean I'm Polynesian. This 365 day a year tan is not because I live in Florida. I had it in Jersey too. I'm Polynesian. My ancestors worshiped a god named Pele. He was the god of the volcano, which of course the volcano is how the Hawaiian islands came up out of the ocean. Pele is the most powerful god to my ancestors. If I told you, of course I'm a Christian pastor and I'm going to preach Jesus to you, but my salvation comes through Pele. You're going to kind of question whether you're going to sit here for the rest of my message or not. That's what they're doing. They are coming trying to worship God through a pagan institution. God had said, my presence is here. By the way, I'm the god that saved you from Egypt, parted the Red Sea, ten plagues. You remember all that fun jazz? Yeah, it was me. I'm over here at the tabernacle. Come and worship me. But instead, they go to these local pagan high places and they try to worship God. And here's the other problem. Some of the Canaanites are still there, and so they would start adopting some of those Canaanite pagan practices and calling it worshiping God. And before you know it, you've mixed the worship of God with something that's clearly demonic and you've ended up with your own idolatrous false worship. So do you understand now why worshiping at the high places is a bad thing? All right, let's move on from that. So it's not just Solomon, but Solomon has led the people of Israel into idolatry by not obeying God's commands. I hope you see by now that David and Saul and Solomon, they're not these supergiants of faith who never make mistakes. That's one of the most encouraging things to me when I read these stories about these people in the Bible, because Miranda, I'm a screw up. Just ask my wife, she'll list it for you. I'm a screw up. Ask my sister-in-law, she knows. Holla, right? Solomon's a screw up, and he's the king of Israel. He's a screw up, and he's about to be given more wealth, more life, and more wisdom than any man who's ever lived. And he's a screw up. That makes me feel pretty good. If God can use a screw up like David or Saul or Solomon, Jonathan, God can use screw ups like us too. So be encouraged this morning. If you're in the screw up camp with me, that doesn't mean God's not going to use you. But look at this. Solomon loved the Lord. Now how do I jive that statement with the idea that he's worshipping God in pagan temples? Is it possible to love God and yet still worship him selfishly? Yeah. I think it happens more often today than we want to admit. Is it totally possible to worship God, or to love God, but worship him idolatrously? To worship him inappropriately? To worship him unbiblically because I am the definer of how I worship the Lord God? Yeah. I think it's very possible, and sadly I think it happens all too often today. You know how most people make their choice for a church? The music. The number one most divisive thing in our country. Most people make their church choices based on the music. Dan, you guys are reading Fusion. Most people have their first impression of a church in the first seven and a half minutes there on the campus. Which, if you're like me and you like to be there early, the service hasn't even started yet. And I've already made my first impression of what your church is like. The thing I want you to get out of this is Solomon truly loves God. We're going to see that in a minute when he talks to God. But Julie, just because you love God doesn't mean you don't make mistakes. Doesn't mean that you might not even be worshipping him incorrectly. Doesn't mean you might be wanting to love him, but not doing it the right way. And that's where we find Solomon. Alright Jess, take me to my next point please. Solomon weighed himself against God's plan. Solomon weighed himself against God's plan. Now we start to see Solomon's heart. Yes, he's making some mistakes. Yes, he's a screw up. But take a look at what happens next. This is verses five through nine. That night, now what night? The night he went to one of them pagan places to worship. That night the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream and God said, What do you want? Ask and I will give it to you. You know if that's the only time in scripture God says that? It's the only time in scripture God walks up to someone and goes, Here's a blank check. Just tell me what kind of blessings you want to have. Like congratulations Ed McMahon, publisher Clearinghouse. Just tell me what do you need from God Almighty? It's the only time in scripture this has happened. What do you need? And look at how Solomon replies. You showed great and faithful love to your servant my father David because he was honest and true and faithful to you. Isn't it amazing? Like we just talked about David and Bathsheba last week. David had an adulterous affair and then tried to cover it up and ultimately killed the guy so he could get the wife and cover up the pregnancy. And yet David is still the man after God's own heart. And look at the way Solomon sees it. Solomon sees his relationship with God through the lens of his father. Why? Because Solomon understands the Davidic covenant. He understands that God has a unique relationship with the people of Israel and that he was only made king because of God's will. And you have continued to show this great and faithful love to him today by giving him a son, i.e. me, to sit on his throne. Now look at this. Now, oh Lord my God, you have made me king. Solomon understands in no uncertain terms. His position as the king is only because of God's will. That's where it starts. You have made me king instead of my father. God had made his father king. He also recognized that he was in charge of the succession of kings. David, instead of my father David, but I am a little child who doesn't know his way around. You can go ahead and take me to the next slide, but I'm going to rip this for a second. I am a little child who doesn't know his way around. You might be tempted to think that Solomon is too young to be king, that he took over the kingdom in an adolescent age. That is not the case. The word there for young is not the Hebrew word for a little boy or an adolescent or an immature male. The word young there really means inexperienced. Solomon is not referring to his chronological age. He is referring to his lack of experience in doing this task that he recognizes God has made him king and God, I'm inexperienced at this role in which you have given me. And here I am in the midst of your own chosen people. You see again his theology. He understands that God Almighty has chosen a special people and that he is to be king of God's. He understands the covenantal relations. Those of my Tuesday, Wednesday Bible study years, we talked about that Abrahamic covenant. Solomon understands this. He understands that there is a special covenantal relationship between the God he is speaking to and the people that he is king of. In the midst of your chosen people, a nation so great and numerous that they cannot be counted. Anybody ding, ding, ding? One of the promises that God made to Abraham is as numerous as the sand on the seashore, star in the sky. Again, giving you that covenantal background. This is what he says. Give me an understanding heart so I can govern your people well. Solomon's request is framed multiple times on his theology and his understanding of not only God's place in his life, but his place in God's plan. And what he asks for is the ability to do that which God has called him to do. He does not ask for money and of course God's going to point that out in a minute. But you see how you got to see how that all laid up. Solomon understands God has chosen people. Solomon understands God made his father David king. Now God has made him king. God has made him king of this special covenantal nation. And he feels inexperienced and incapable to do the job. Have you ever been in a situation where you felt like God called you to do something you weren't ready for? That's Solomon. In this moment, who can govern this great nation of yours? And he says, give me an understanding heart so I can govern your people well and know the difference between right and wrong. Because as the king at this time, adjudicating disputes is part of his role. He's not just a dignitary. He is in charge of trying to discern right and wrong in that we see the presence of God's justice for by himself or for who by himself is able to govern this great people of yours. God understands, or Solomon understands, that because Israel is God's chosen people, the way he serves Israel is the way he serves God. And in this prayer, even though, again, same guy that's worshipping God in pagan temples. Same guy. Same screw-up who married a foreign woman, which if you want to read ahead into chapters 11 and 12, you'll see how that works out. He marries foreign women and they draw him back into pagan idolatry. But this is the same guy who has a heart for God. He loves God. He's not really pulling it off really well. But when we see his heart, when he is alone with God and we get an opportunity to see his prayer, he sees the magnitude of God's moving in his life and he sees his own sort of frail incapability to do it. And then all he asks for is the wisdom to do it well. Jess, pop me one forward. Let's hit the next one. God blessed Solomon's humility and priority. God blessed Solomon's humility and priority. God blessed Solomon's humility and priority. Let's take it now, verses 10 through 14. The Lord was pleased that Solomon had asked for wisdom. So God replied, because you have asked for wisdom in governing my people with justice, God recognizes that which Solomon has already admitted. Solomon is asking for the ability to do the task God has put before him in a way that honors God himself. Because you have asked for wisdom in governing my people with justice and have not asked for, and now God lays out the big things he was expecting, you didn't ask for long life or for wealth or for the death of your enemies, vengeance is mine, or for the death of your enemies, I will give you a wise and understanding heart such as no one else has ever had. Why do we still call Solomon the wisest man to ever live? Because God gave him a supernatural wisdom that no other human being has had. Why did God give Solomon that supernatural wisdom? God pressed Solomon and said, I'll give you anything you want. He said, God, I want to serve you well. He didn't ask for any of the other accolades that we're about to see he gets. He said, God, help me to do the job you gave me in a way that honors you. Take me to the next one. And he will also give you what you did not ask for, riches and fame. No other king in all the world will be compared to you for the rest of your life. And then look at this last statement. He gives him the wealth, he gives him the notoriety and the fame, but look at this. And if, underlined, highlight, long press, do something in your Bibles, this if right here is almost a foreshadowing of what's going to happen in the rest of Solomon's life. This if, if you follow me and obey my decrees. Now, is Solomon fully obeying God at this moment? No, because he's still worshiping God at the pagan temples. He's still worshiping God at all these pagan shrines. God says, if you follow me and obey my decrees and my commands as your father David did, then I'll give you the long life. Notice he gives him the wealth, he gives him the fame, but the long life is going to be gone. He gives him the wealth, he gives him the fame, but the long life is going to be dependent on your level of obedience. God still holds back one thing, because he wants Solomon to serve him honestly. In Solomon's prayer that we just looked at in the last point, I think his humility really comes out. He weighs himself against that which God has put in front of him. He sees himself as lacking, and he says, God, I find myself saying that on Sunday mornings. I get here kind of early and I'm turning air conditioners on, and there are some Sundays, I just sit usually in this chair right here, and I just go, God, don't let me screw this up. I mean, in essence, that's my boiled down version of Solomon. That's like the bill version, the new international bill version. Dear God, please don't let me screw up badly. I'll probably screw up anyway, but don't let it be too bad. So I can totally relate, and look how God rewards not only Solomon's humility. He understood he wasn't good enough, but his priority. Solomon put the accomplishing of God's will over his own ambition and accomplishment. He has the ability to govern God's people, which is the very task God had given him, and God blesses him with all this other stuff anyway. Because Solomon put God's priorities over his own is why we see this blessing poured out. Here's your fifth blank. Solomon worshiped and celebrated when God spoke to him. Solomon worshiped and celebrated when God spoke to him. Let's take a look at our final two verses, 15 and 16. Then Solomon woke up. Sometimes you get so drawn into the conversation that you forget this entire conversation happened in a dream. Now, that's the first thing I've got to ask you. Miss Diane, you wake up super early. You put on your little shoes. You go into your kitchen. You're recalling this fantastic dream that you had speaking with God Almighty about the future of your life. Are you tempted to just say, man, that was a cool dream? Okay, where's Cheerios? Or are you going to sit down and truly soak in the fact that you spoke with Almighty God? The Lord just happened to speak to you in dreams. Now, do we see evidence that God speaks to people in dreams other places in the Bible? Absolutely we do. Joseph, Pharaoh, I mean, go down the line. There are plenty of times God uses the medium of dreams to speak to someone. Does that mean what God says in that dream is illegitimate? No, it just means God chose a different medium other than sending an angelic messenger or appearing on the road to Damascus. God chooses to speak to his people as he will. But Solomon gets this. Watch, he says, he woke up and realized it had been a dream. And the reason we know he's serious about it is what happens next. He returned to Jerusalem and stood before the Ark of the Covenant. He's not at the pagan place of worship anymore. He's not at the pagan place of worship anymore, is he? He is at the very Ark of God's covenant with God's people. Based on everything that John Hems says, this is a huge place for him. He understands God's covenant relationship with Israel. He understands his place in being the ruler of God's covenantal nation. And he goes to the singular place on earth that is a symbol of that covenant. And he sacrificed burnt offerings and peace offerings. And he invited all his officials to a banquet. Here, Julie, is a heart-change moment for Solomon. And Dan, I totally wish I could tell you that from here on out, Solomon served God faithfully with his entire life. And he never made a mistake. And he never screwed up. And he didn't get any more pagan wives. But that would be a lie. Solomon still makes mistakes. And that is really one of the best things I hope you take away from this series. Is all of these people that when we teach these stories to little children in Sunday school, we teach David like a mighty hero to aspire to, and we minimize his character flaws and failures. When we teach Solomon, we talk all about how he was granted all of his wisdom from God. And you miss all the pagan idolatrous worship that was seven verses ahead of that. I want you to see Solomon for the broken guy that he really is. He's not perfect. He's a screw-up. Hi, my name is Bill. I'm a screw-up too. But that doesn't mean that God doesn't call screw-ups to do amazing things. Here, after this encounter with God, he goes to the symbol of God's covenant relationship with Israel. And he sacrifices and worships the true God in the right way. Keep in mind, in the beginning, he was worshiping God in an idolatrous way. Now he's worshiping God in the right way. Here we see his commitment to wanting to really do that which God had called him to do. And he does it for a little while. Like I said, he's got a little problem with the ladies, got a little wandering eye, just like his daddy did. He picks up a couple of foreign ladies from a couple of foreign towns, and has a couple of wives and a couple thousand in his harem. And yeah, not a perfect guy. That doesn't mean that God does not use him. And it doesn't mean that God's promise still wasn't true for him. He still was granted more wisdom than any other person. So how do you take something like this and live it out? Here's two closing thoughts for you. Number one, you're probably not perfect either. Like I love you. I don't know all of you as well as some of you, but I'm willing to bet none of us in this room would stand up and go, I am perfect super Christian. I hear me. Never made a mistake in my life. We all have. But if God can use Solomon, who's idolatrously worshiping in pagan temples and marrying pagan women, which was a no-no for him, then why would you think the things you have done in your life are so great that it takes you off of God's calendar and map? Maybe God is just waiting for you to have a humble moment of prayer, like we see Solomon had, where he says, God, man, I don't think I can do what you put in front of me. I tell you, y'all are the most intimidating thing I do every week. My stomach turns knots every Sunday. And it's not that I don't feel like I'm a good communicator. I feel like I do a decent job. But I'm nervous every Sunday. I always have to go, God, please don't let me screw this up. Not because I feel like I'm important or because I'm some sort of celebrity. No, I feel like I'm talking about the most important book on the planet. And I've got to do a good job of making sure I don't editorialize, like Josephine and I talked about last week. A lot more Bible, a lot less editorialization. And I'll do a good job. What is God calling you to that you find intimidating? Is it living a holy lifestyle in the midst of a worldly culture? Yeah, that's intimidating. It's hard to represent God in a culture that wants all gods to be equal. It's hard to say there's only one way to heaven and his name is Jesus in a culture that wants to abort tolerance as its God. And all gods are equal and all dogs go to heaven. I mean, that's hard. Thank you. Throw in a little movie reference. I had two movie references in a word. You missed it. You've got to have to come back. I normally am this most scatterbrained. I do apologize. This is pretty much a normal week for me. The ADHD. Maybe it's not current, but can you think of a time in your life when, Lynette, you felt like God has put this task in front of you and you're just looking at it going, God ain't no way. Like Moses. Remember what happened with Moses? When God told Moses what he was going to do, Moses was like, I think you've got the wrong guy. Like, I'm not good at talking. Like, me no talky goody. Like, I think you picked the wrong... And God had to set Moses straight. It's my favorite part of the Prince of Egypt. Who made men's mouths? Look at Job. God's trying to correct...Job tries to correct God. I'm sorry. Were you there when I laid the foundations of the ocean? Were you there when I decided to paint it blue? What about what God's doing in your life? How many times have you stopped and said, God, I think this is too big for me? If it wasn't too big for Solomon or Moses or David, maybe the reality is it's not too big for you either. God wants to do great things, but he needs people of faith to do them. We are merely the instrument of God's will. We are not the focus. We are not the purpose of the Gospel. If you have accepted Christ, you are now the messenger of the Gospel. Those unsafe people in your family and your friends in your community, those people who have not yet decided to trust in Jesus, they're the focus of the Church. We are merely the avenue in which we get to them. God has a mission for every one of you. It may not necessarily...we talked about this in the spiritual gifts class on Friday. Just because your gifts are different than mine does not mean mine are better and yours are lesser. It means ours are different, and we should stand together and use them together.