For those of you who have been around C3 a little bit longer, you will know that Hall of Heroes is something we do every summer. Every summer I do a series entitled Hall of Heroes, and what it is, is it is taking a look at the biographical characters of the Bible. The first Hall of Heroes was some of the epic leaders from the Jewish culture from early in the Bible. We had Noah, we had Moses, we had Joshua. Then we did a Hall of Heroes, the women of the Bible, and we looked at Rahab and Esther and Ruth and Mary from the New Testament. Well this time we're taking a little bit of a different spin on it. This is Hall of Heroes, Kings of Gold. And I have to say Kings of Gold is somewhat of a, almost a double entendre, it's Kings of Gold and also the Kings of Old. Dan we're going to be looking at is the first three Kings of the nation of Israel. So just to give you an idea where we're at in the biblical timeline. So I always tell you, you know, you want these mental mile markers. When you think about the story of the Bible, the story of the Bible played out in history over time. So Nico, where are we right now? Most of you will remember the story of Moses, right? The children of Israel, they move into Egypt at the story of Joseph. That's the end of the book of Genesis. Then they stay in Egypt, they multiply, and at a certain point the King of Egypt, or Pharaoh, decides that the nation of Israel is becoming too big. The Hebrews are too numerous. They might rise up against us. So let's just enslave them, because that sounds like a natural choice. So they enslave the nation of the Hebrews and they become real slaves. And then several hundred years go by, and then the children of Israel cry out for their God to redeem them, to save them. Enter a guy named Moses, who you may have heard about. I've heard he looks an awful lot like Charlton Heston. Moses comes on the scene and Moses saves the people. He redeems them from Pharaoh. And then he takes them away, in theory, to go to the promised land. If you read Exodus, there's a little problem that happens there. They actually don't go right to the promised land. They wander for about 40 years. And then a guy named Joshua takes over. Joshua leads them into the promised land. Once the nation of Israel takes over the promised land, they go into what we call the period of the judges. The way the Lord designed their system is they were judged by these judges who were appointed by God. Now fast forward a few hundred more years. After a few hundred years of the judges, the children of Israel wanted a king. And this is the moment where we're going to insert ourselves into the biblical timeline, and we are going to explore not only how did Israel get its first king, but then we're going to follow through from King Saul to King David, who many of you may be familiar with that name. King David and then King David's son, Solomon. The first three kings. Over the next several weeks, we're going to be building through this period of Israel's history from King Saul to King David and ultimately to King Solomon. So if you will look on the back of your bulletin, I have some notes here for you. They look a little like this. There are some blanks that I'm going to ask you to follow along with me. This morning's message is entitled, Saul, the People's King. Saul, the People's King. And if you have your Bibles with you, whether they're physical or digital, please turn or click with me to the book of 1 Samuel. The book of 1 Samuel. Slight little side note here for those of you who are interested. The book of 1 Samuel was not always a two book collection. In the original Hebrew text and in the Greek text, it is one book called Samuel. However, when the Bible was translated into Greek in order to save space, they broke it into two books. So actually, what you're reading in your text as 1 Samuel is really one book. Samuel. The same with 1 and 2 Kings. It's really just the book of Samuel, the book of the kings, the book of the chronicles. But because of the way it was translated when it was in Latin, we now have 1 and 2 Samuel and now modern Hebrew Bibles match ours with 1 and 2 Samuel. So we're going to be in 1 Samuel chapter 8. 1 Samuel chapter 8. And we're going to read the first 22 verses. I'll be reading the New Living Translation. Here's what it says. As Samuel grew old, he appointed his sons to be judges over Israel. Joel and Abijah, his oldest sons, held court in Beersheba. But they were not like their father, for they were greedy for money. They accepted bribes and perverted justice. Finally, all the elders of Israel met at Ramah to discuss the matter with Samuel. Look, they told him, you are now old and your sons are not like you. Give us a king to judge us like all the other nations have. Samuel was displeased with their request and went to the Lord for guidance. Do everything they say to you, the Lord replied, for they are rejecting me, not you. They don't want me to be their king any longer. Ever since I brought them from Egypt, they have continually abandoned me and followed other gods. And now they are giving you the same treatment. Do as they ask, but solemnly warn them about the way a king will reign over them. So Samuel passed on the Lord's warning to the people who were asking for a king. This is how a king will reign over you, Samuel said. The king will draft your sons and assign them to his chariots and his charioteers, making them run before his chariots. Some of them will be generals and captains in his army. Some will be forced to plow in his fields and harvest his crops. And some will make his weapons and chariot equipment. The king will take your daughters from you and force them to cook and bake and make perfumes for him. He will take away the best of your fields and vineyards and olive groves and give them to his own officials. He will take a tenth of your grain and your grape harvest and distribute it among his officers in attendance. He will take your male and female slaves and demand the finest of your cattle and donkeys for his own use. He will demand a tenth of your flocks and you will be his slaves. When the day comes, you will beg for relief from this king you are demanding, but the Lord will not help you. But the people refused to listen to Samuel's warning. Even so, we still want a king, they said. We want to be like the other nations around us. Our king will judge us and lead us into battle. So Samuel repeated to the Lord what the people had said. And the Lord replied, Do as they say and give them a king. Then Samuel agreed and sent the people home. Now what we're going to do is we're going to go back through this text. This is really, Nico, this is the scene. You know, I talk about anytime you want to read the Bible, you want to know what's the scene. Not just who these people are, but what is going on. We need to take ourselves out of our modern day 2016 internet driven social media smart watch culture and put ourselves back in this early, probably 750 to 900 BC timeframe. So let me give you your first blanks this morning on your bulletin. And then we're going to go through and sort of unpack this verse. I think there's some big poignant things we can learn. Here's your first blank this morning. Sin perverts God's plan for Israel. Sin perverts God's plan for Israel. Sin perverts God's plan for Israel. I apologize, I did not put the notes in the computer. So if you need me to read it again, just raise your hand and I can read the point again. Sin perverts God's plan for Israel. Let me read the first three verses of our text again. As Samuel grew old, stop. Let's just stop there for a minute. As Samuel grew old, does anybody know who Samuel was? Does anybody know who Samuel was? Okay, let me give you a little hint. Samuel, at the time that we are reading it, Ms. Diane, as we are interjecting ourselves in the story, Samuel is the prophet and reigning judge over the nation of Israel. If you were to read the few verses of the previous chapter, chapter 7, the very end, what you would find out is Samuel traveled a yearly circuit as he traveled around the nation of Israel. He had four different cities that he stopped in. In different seasons he would travel throughout the nation of Israel and he would judge. That means he would administer, he would adjudicate over disputes, he would judge the nation of Israel and help apply law in its practical aspects. So when you understand Samuel and who he was, he was called by Samuel's mother. This is the very beginning of the book of Samuel. Samuel's mother was unable to bear children. She cried out to the Lord. She begged the Lord to give her mercy, so much so she was crying out to the Lord. And the then reigning prophet, Eli, came out and he goes, Woman, get your drunken self away from my church. Because she was so emotional about it. And she turns to Eli and she says, I'm not inebriated. I am crying out to the Lord for mercy. And he says, Oh, may the Lord give you whatever you need. Good job. And so from that moment, Samuel's mother conceived. She gave birth to Samuel. And when he was a small child, she brought Samuel, dedicated him to the Lord, and handed him to Eli. Samuel was raised in the service of God from the time he was a toddler to the time that we read about here when he's old. He has served the Lord faithfully the breadth of his life. Probably at this point, at least 65 to 80 years he has been in the service of the Lord. He has been one of the most respected prophets of his day. And here he's getting old. So continuing in verse 1, he appointed his sons to be judges over Israel. Now, Niko, that sounds good. We went from one judge to two judges. Hopefully we can get more done. Joel and Abijah, his oldest sons, held court in Beersheba. Now that's the first moment that they deviate from their father's plan. Samuel traveled the country throughout the year, stopping in multiple cities, arguably to make himself more available to the people of Israel. Not everybody could travel to one city just to have a legal matter settled. If you had more money, you traveled, the legal matter went your way. But if you didn't, you had to wait for Samuel to come to your city, to your town, and help you. So first off and foremost, we see that Joel and Abijah, they set up shop and said, Listen, we the judge now, you want us? You're going to come to me. They had a very different attitude of how to rule, how to judge, than their father did. Secondly, we notice they were not like their father, for they were greedy for money. They accepted bribes and perverted justice. So this is what's happening when Samuel, who has served the Lord for 65 to 80 years, a man of character, a man of integrity, a godly man who has been giving godly, wise counsel to a nation for more than five decades, is now replaced by his two younger sons. Cool, about that money. I have to quote Bruno Mars. About that money. Alright, now we're back to the Bible. So his sons, who are way more interested in the mighty money than they are the character and godly justice of God, they take over ruling, they set up shop in Beersheba, and now if you want your ruling to go your way, you might have to pay a little tax and we'll have things go your way. The first thing I want you to see this morning is that the sin of Joel and Abijah, their greed, is what perverted their job. If they had done the job the same way their father had, if they had done the job with godly integrity, with wisdom, with godly fear of administering correctly, then we wouldn't be in the position we're in, but they don't. The sin in their heart perverted their job and transformed their job from one of integrity to one of greed, transformed their justice from one of god-fearing justice to godly, or ungodly injustice. To say it this way, a sinful heart warped God's plan and turned it into man's abuses. A sinful heart warps God's plan and turns it into man's abuses. Now for you to fully understand the mentality of the nation of Israel, I've got to tell you one more story that happens at the beginning of 1 Samuel. In the beginning of 1 Samuel, anybody ever heard of the Philistines? Really, really famous, he gets in a fight with David in a couple years. Well, the Philistines are still around, and the Philistines sack Jerusalem and they steal the Ark of the Covenant. They steal the very Ark of God from God's people, and they take it back to their hometown in Philistia. Now it goes through this whole process, which by the way is hilarious to read if you have the time to read the first couple chapters. They steal the Ark of God, they put it in a treasure room with Dagon, this gigantic statue of Dagon, their pagan god. Jonathan, they wake up the next morning and the statue of Dagon is face to the ground in front of the Ark of the Lord. So they pick up Dagon, they're like, whoop, Dagon had a bad night. Pick him up, stand him up, the very next morning, guess what happened? Again, Dagon is face down before the Ark of God. The third morning, they pick him up, they put him back. Third morning, Melissa, the hands and head of the Dagon statue are broken off and are across the room. So they can't put him back up a third time. Then, Ali, shortly after that, all of the residents of their town start developing tumors. They go, maybe we should take the Ark of God away from here and put it over there. So they move it from their town to another town. People in that town, tumors and rats. Right? Like, I definitely, definitely want the New Testament God on my side. Not like, you did not do so good, tumors and rats, for you. So then they move the Ark a third time, and again, the third city, tumors and rats. So finally, they go, maybe we should just give the Ark back to the Jews. And they actually give the Ark back to the Jews with a treasure chest in it, with golden tumors and golden rats as a, I'm sorry, offering to the God of Israel. Now, that is what happened in the two chapters right before this story comes into play. Why did I just tell you that story? Number one, golden tumors and rats is always hilarious. But, what I want you to understand about the mentality of the nation of Israel at this point, Julie, they're very defeated. They're under unjust judges. The Ark of God has been stolen by a foreign military power. So we're still going to the temple, but God's Ark is not there. So, at this point, when we jump into 1 Samuel chapter 8, they're kind of in a down, depressed mode. And then when Joel and Abijah come on the scene with their dollar equals justice form of judging, it just puts everything in a bad light. So your first blank was, sin perverts God's plan for Israel. Here's your second blank. Israel's response to sin is wrong. Israel's response to sin is wrong. Israel's response to sin is wrong. Now let me read verses 4 and 5 from our text this morning. Finally, all of the elders of Israel met at Ramah to discuss the matter with Samuel. Look, they told him, you are now old and your sons are not like you. Give us a king who will judge us like all the other nations have. Now, Harry, there is such a thing as making a bad situation worse. So Israel is stuck in a depressed mind. They're being judged by greedy and unjust young men judges. So the elders of Israel get together and they go over to Samuel and say, Samuel, yeah, listen, we've got to talk, man. This situation with your sons, it's not working. It's not working. You're too old now. And your sons, they don't judge like you. I'm not saying nothing. I'm not trying to speak bad of your boys. But they don't judge like you. You know what, Dan, how about you just give us a king? Just give us a king who can rule over us and judge us. And then basically what they're trying to do is they're trying to replace Joel and Abijah as the authority figures over Israel. But in order to do that, they still have to go to God's prophet who is Samuel. Joel and Abijah replaced Samuel's judging job, but they did not become the next prophet of God. Does that make sense? They replaced him as judge, but he was still the prophet. And so they go to Samuel and they go, listen, bruh, like, hear me, bruh, this is just not working. Your sons are not working. And then they say, look, give us a king like all the other nations have. Now, what I want you to understand is the elders of Israel are completely justified in bringing the actions of Joel and Abijah to Samuel's attention. They are not, however, justified in moving away from God's plan. And here's where we have to talk about who is the true king of Israel. The way God designed his nation, he and he alone is the true king of Israel. Now we see that embodied in flesh when Jesus comes as the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And if you remember from our study of Revelation, when Jesus comes back and sets up his Messianic kingdom to rule over Israel, he will, in embodiment, be the King of Israel. God's plan was always to be the King of his people. But here, after suffering a military defeat, after having the very symbol of their salvation taken from them, and now under the thumb of these young and unjust judges, they turn away from wanting God as their King. What else? I wrote this in my notes. Let me try to sum this point this way. A bad situation never justifies a bad decision. A bad situation never justifies a bad decision. Yes, Israel's got a tough spot having a bad couple of years. Listen, at least you don't have tumors and rats. Let's be honest, when the ark comes home, the Jewish people don't have tumors and rats. Because the ark was meant to be at home. But they're not doing well. They're having a bad situation. Their problem is that instead of turning to God, like they did when they were in Israel and God sent Moses, instead of turning back into God's plan, they turn away from God's plan. And instead of running to his direction, they go against his direction. By asking for a king, they are basically saying, Samuel, we don't want you or your kids to rule over us anymore. And yet they need Samuel to appoint a king. Because you can't have a king if he's not anointed by the prophet. So do you see, Ali, if you're Samuel, this is sort of an emotionally conflicting moment for you. You have given 65 years of your life, God Almighty and serving his people. And here in the twilight retirement, where you were looking forward to watching your sons pick up your mantle and judge the children of Israel in a godly manner the way you did, your sons dropped a ball. And all of a sudden, Micah and Colton are taking bribes right and left. I tell you, will you give me some Legos? I'll give you some extra mac and cheese. Which is very well what might be negotiated at our lunch table at any given day. So if you're Samuel, you're really not happy. And we'll see that in a minute. But the major thing I want you to realize is, even in the midst of a bad situation, the elders of Israel, i.e. the entire nation of Israel, is not justified in going further from God's plan in the midst of bad circumstances. Bad situation never justifies a bad decision. Your third blank this morning. Now we're getting into it. Your third blank. Israel is disloyal to God. Israel is disloyal to God. Israel is disloyal to God. Let me read verses 6-8 of our chapter this morning. Samuel was displeased with their request and went to the Lord for guidance. Now this is the Lord speaking. Do everything they say to you, the Lord replied, for they are rejecting me, not you. They're rejecting me, not you. They don't want me to be their king anymore. Ever since I brought them from Egypt, they have continually abandoned me and followed other gods. And now they are giving you the same treatment. Now that, some harsh words to come from God Almighty. Samuel is displeased with the request of the elders of the Lord. Why? For two reasons really. Number one, they're replacing him. But number two, and the real reason for his displeasure, they're replacing God. It's basically saying, you know what God, that whole Moses Egypt thing, you were on point. But I feel like I could take it from here. I'm good. Thank you so much for your blessings, your guidance. All that manna in the wilderness, that was the chain. Thank you for keeping us alive. But I'm good, I got it from here. Samuel realizes they are departing from the plan that God had laid for them. And instead are embarking on a plan that they have created for themselves. Now you ask yourself, which one of those is more likely to end in disaster? The plan that God Almighty, who spoke the universe into existence, has laid out before you? Or the plan that you come up with? Think about it for a second. Have you ever had a moment in your life where you thought, God, I know this is how you want me to do it, but yeah, I'm going to try this first. I'm sure none of us have had that problem. You guys are all, we are God's perfect church. We are the super perfect Christian. None of us ever make mistakes. Got it on lock all day, 365. But there are those random people who when they face struggles and trials and difficult circumstances, choose their own path of least resistance instead of God. What do you want me to do in this moment? See, now that takes a moment where you got to calm down. You got to slow down. We talked about that. Sometimes you got to slow the situation down. When you're looking with God's eternal perspective, the next year of your life doesn't sound so bad. When you're only looking at the next 60 seconds before you have to breathe again, a year seems infinite. When you look with man's perspective, God's perspective gets a little skewed. I'm getting off here. God's plan was always to have a king. Now here's one that's interesting. If you go back and look in the law, in Deuteronomy, Miss Diane, do you know what's in there? The instructions for how the king of Israel should act towards his people. Now, that seems sort of odd, right? Why are they rejecting God and asking for a king when earlier in his law, God planned for them to have a king and so much so, wrote instructions in the law for how a king should operate when ruling his people. Do those things sound contradictory to you? God gave rules and planned for a king, but when the children of Israel ask for a king, they are departing from God's plan. Who is the one person who God planned to be king, who would also follow God's laws to be king? Jesus. Now of course we know that today. We have the benefit of 2,000 years worth of history and the written word of God, but that's the huge thing you got to see here. God always planned for his people to have a king. His name was Jesus. He just hadn't showed up yet. So what the children of Israel lacked were patience. They didn't want to wait for God's plan. They wanted in their time, in their way, in their solution, they wanted to be the creation of their own solution instead of waiting for God to provide the perfect solution. In idolatry, they began to worship other gods. This led to desiring a king like other pagan nations. Now I want to teach you a new Hebrew word here because I think it has some impact. In, I believe it's the end of verse 6, beginning of verse 7, the Lord says, for they are rejecting me, for they are rejecting me. That word in Hebrew, and I'll spell it for you transliterally, it's muh-ass, and it means to despise, to refuse, or to reject. Mu-ass means to despise, to refuse, or to reject. It can be translated as to hate, to despise, to refuse, to shut out, to turn off, to turn away, or to fully reject, as in no longer associate with, mu-ass. So what the children of Israel are literally saying to God Almighty, God is saying, I have saved you from Egypt. Remember me in the wilderness. Remember the manna. Remember the bread. That was me. Remember Joshua, Jericho, land of Canaan, Abraham, and promise. That was all me. And they say to God, mu-ass. And they're out. I reject you. I refuse to accept you. I despise you. Those are all correct connotations of this word, mu-ass. And it literally means a separating or rejecting of God's authority. But this is, in my opinion, as you're watching this story play out, the decision to reject God is not the problem. It's really the symptom. Because look at what he said earlier. God says, oh no, no, right after that, they're rejecting me, not you. They don't want me to be their king any longer. And then look at this. Ever since I brought them from Egypt, of course we're talking about what? Moses, the parting of the Red Sea, that he was the king of Egypt. The Red Sea, that huge moment where God redeems his people. Ever since then, they have continually abandoned me and followed other gods. The reason that they are willing to reject God's plan is they've already been rejecting him in worship. Or let's say it this way. Replacing the Lord as the object of worship replaced his word and his plan as the standard of measure. They had already been departing from God and starting to serve and worship these pagan gods. When you go down the road of making anything else number one over God, that something else becomes the terms of your decision making. They had already departed from God in worship. It's only a matter of time before they depart from God in making decisions based on his word. One will automatically follow the other. Replacing the Lord as the object of worship replaced his word and his plan as the standard of measure. Here's your fourth blank this morning. God warns Israel. He warns them about their choice. God warns Israel about their choice. So the elders come to Samuel. Give us a king. Give us a king. Samuel is very displeased, but yet Samuel goes to the Lord. That's one of the things I think Jonathan is so cool about Samuel in this story. He knows that people of Israel are doing something that will be displeasing to God. And yet he humbles himself to God Almighty and brings their ungodly request to the Lord in prayer. He could have just simply said, y'all don't lost y'all's minds. I'm going to let y'all sleep on it for the weekend and let's talk on Monday. He didn't do that. Let's say he knowingly went to the Lord to ask for something that he knowingly knew the Lord did not want. And yet that just shows the humble servitude that he had. Just like him traveling around to the different cities. He truly served his nation. And in this moment they are asking for something that is so ungodly and yet he does it. Do as they ask. But solemnly warn them about a way a king will rule over them. Now what is he saying? And I'm not going to read the whole passage again because it's pretty lengthy, but you get the point, right? As soon as a human king is installed over Israel, things turn to a human agenda. Men, warrior, chariot, weaponry, perfume, cake. I'm down for that one. If I wasn't down for guns and ammo, you better believe I'm down for cake. All of a sudden when the human becomes king, Israel's workforce and Israel's effort become focused on human agendas. Warriors, chariots, baking, food, land owning, harvesting. All of these things that are monetary or military based become the focus. Now remember, who was God's plan to be king of Israel? Jesus. When Jesus assumes the throne in the millennial kingdom, when Jesus assumes the throne, do you believe that Jesus will be swayed by these human materialistic types of things? No. Why? Because he was the king that God designed for Israel to rule righteously, to rule in a godly fashion. He is the king that Samuel was waiting for. And yet, the children of Israel are impatient and they no longer want to wait. Until this point, the tribes of Israel were separate but equal. The judges would hand her the medals of dispute or legality. The impact of their choice was to have a man-based standard of ranking and subjugation, rather than unity and equality under God. Let me say that again. The impact of Israel's choice is to install a man-based or human-based standard of ranking and subjugation. What I mean is, he said, some will be chosen as generals, some will be chosen as chariteers, some will be in the field, some will be baking. What do we do? As people, we rank everything. Go to YouTube and just type in rank. Everything gets ranked. Top 5 worst movies of 2015. Top 7 best nose jobs in Hollywood. It doesn't matter. The top 10 coolest skateboards. The top 10 worst forms of toilet paper. I think you can find a top 10 video on YouTube for just about everything. YouTube, not a sponsor. But, we crave that as humans, don't we? Miss Diane, don't we crave the desire to be seen as better than another human being, as better than another person? Because somehow we've decided, if I can be better than you, then I'm not the worst. I'm better than Terry, at least. Terry, I'm better than Jonathan, at least. Jonathan, I'm better than Nico, at least. And all of a sudden, our focus is what? Right there, what did you just do? You used a man-based standard instead of a God-based standard. Your focus came off of, how do I measure in terms of what God wants me to do? And went, I'm doing more than Terry, I'm good. All of a sudden, your focus became man-standard. By the way, great glasses. Instead, we were called to God's standard. We were called to live to God's standard. The choice that Israel makes here, and the Lord warns them very clear, the king will take your land, he will take it out of all your stuff, he'll give it out to his officials. Why? Because he's going to spread the wealth and buy the loyalty of his hierarchical leadership. Because man wants a hierarchical system. Look at the way we run church in our country. In our country, there's a pastor, and then there's other pastors, and then there's other pastors, and then there's other pastors, and then there's other pastors, and then there's leaders, and then there's leaders. You know, we crave a hierarchical system of ranking. Why? Because we're fallen human, we love to compare. When the reality is, God's plan for his people, and I would also argue God's plan for the church, was never to be subjugated under the will of man, but to have unity and diversity under the will of God. Israel, obviously the church hasn't been born yet, where we're at in 1 Samuel, but Israel is God's people. The choice they make trades the freedom of God for the subjugation to man. The choice that Israel makes in this moment, is the freedom that they have to be under the kingship of God, and to be equal, and to be judged according to God's law, and they trade that for the subjugation and slavery of being subjugated to a human. A human who can be sinful, as we will see in the first kings of Israel. Sin was rampant in the kingship. Your final blank this morning. Israel chooses their desire over God's plan. Israel chooses their desire over God's plan. Here is the final few verses from our chapter. When the day comes, you will beg for relief from this king you are demanding. But then the Lord will not help you. But the people refuse to listen to Samuel's warning. Let me stop there for a minute. Why do you think the Lord is very clear? There's going to come a day, I know you want this, right? You're asking for a human king. You're ma'asing me, you're rejecting, you're despising, you're refusing me. You want a human king. So I'm going to go ahead and give you one. I can give you one, but there's going to come a time when you're going to regret this choice. And you're going to pray for deliverance from the consequences of your own choice. And God says, no, no, no, no. You can have your cake and eat it too. You can sleep in the bed that you make. Or whatever those phrases are. My grandmother used to say all the time, that's something else, just get it out. You're going to get the consequences of your choice in spades. And I love the fact that the Lord says, listen, I'm not going to help you. He was very clear about that. You will cry to the Lord for help and God will say, uh-uh. Why? Not because the Lord is not merciful. Not because the Lord is not just. But because you brought this on yourself. You are experiencing the consequences of your own sinful actions. Think too, when the nation of Israel was enslaved by Egypt. They were saved from a famine by Joseph. But whose choice was it to turn the Egyptians into slaves? Did Israel choose that for themselves? No. The Egyptians chose to enslave the Jewish people. So God sends them a deliverer. And now what do they do? They choose to enslave themselves to their own king. They choose to enslave themselves to a sinful, fallible human being. When the God of the universe wants to be the focus and rule of their life. I have to admit, I think there are times in my life where I have chosen to enslave myself to my own choices. To my own thoughts. To my own visions. To my own ideas. When God's plan for me could have been greater. And, Niko, God's loving mercy, he let me experience every ounce of the consequences from my point of view. From my poor choices. Just let that sink in for a minute. May it be that you are experiencing a difficult time in your life. Because they are the consequences of a choice you have made. And that's why the God didn't bring relief. It's not that he doesn't love you. It's that he doesn't want you to make that silly mistake twice. So he's going to let you experience the consequences of the decision that you made. To hopefully draw you closer to him. What caused this whole problem in the first place? Bad decision in bad circumstance. They could have simply gone to Samuel and say, Samuel, plead to the Lord for relief. Pray for him to appoint a judge who will judge us in the way that you did. They could have asked for that. They didn't. They say, give us a king. We want a king like all the other kids do. Daddy, I want a bike because the neighbors have a bike. I need a PlayStation because the neighbors have a PlayStation. Quality by comparison always fails. It never succeeds. It never satisfies. Because there's always going to be somebody in life who has more than you. And remember this, you're probably somebody who has more than somebody else. So they're going, I just want to be like Melissa. Melissa's going, no you don't. Right? Quality by comparison always fails. Because we were never designed to compare to one another. In the face of a divine outcome of their actions, Israel still chooses to depart from God's plan. Because Israel cared more about the nations around it than the God who saved it. What did they say? Give us a king like the other nations have. They wanted to be so like their neighbors. And that's what made Israel unique. Their king is God Almighty. They're the only nation to have a king of God Almighty. And yet in the face of that miraculous salvation from Egypt, I still want to be like all the other kids. Now, I realize you're all looking at me going, oh my God, they're so silly, they're so stupid. How many times do you give in to culture instead of Christ? It's the same mistake. At the root of the issue, at the heart of the issue, it's I want to be like my neighbors. I want to be like the other people at work. I want to be like the people at school. I want to be like and fill in the blank with anything that's not God. And it's the same mistake. Choosing culture over Christ is the same as choosing a king over God. You've just made culture your new king. You've made culture that which enslaves you. You've made culture that which informs you. You've made culture that which directs you. Do you see how we still make the same mistake today? Today, choosing anything but God as the definition and defining of how we should go. Israel wanted a man to judge them instead of God himself. And in a huge kicker, God allows them to make a choice that he knew was not good for them. Just like take that and chew it for a minute. God allowed his precious people, Judy, those he put the red C4. He sent the ten plagues for his very children. He redeemed at the power of his own hand. And he let them make a decision that he knew wasn't good for them. And then he let them experience the consequences of the decision that he knew was not good for them. Valuing the world's opinion over the Lord's guidance always leads to regret and pain. Unfortunately, we today still make the same mistake over and over. How many times, please don't raise your hands, this is an acceptable point to elbow your neighbor if you want. How many times in making a decision do you stop and go, Lord, what do you want me to do right here? I could do that. I could do that. I don't really want to do that. So God, you're going to have to tell me if that's the one you want me to do and then not look at it. Is anybody ever going, God, do you want me to do that? And then not look at it because you don't want to see the answer. God, do I need now? No. No. Oh, you're calling me over here. Praise God. That's what I wanted the whole time. If we are not careful, if we do not go back and learn from the way the Lord treated his children in the Old Testament, we will repeat the mistakes that they make here as a part of the New Testament church. You have to value God's plan for your life more than your opinion and even more than the culture in which we are surrounded by. Let's be honest. Our culture is not super friendly to the Judeo-Christian worldview anymore. Why? Because we make some pretty strong statements. Ali, Jesus is the only way to heaven. Well, you're just so one-minded. You're so mean. How come other people's gods can't get them in heaven? Because they can't. Like, how come tall people can't be on submarines? Because they can't. I haven't seen a single tall person try to protest the U.S. Navy for why they couldn't be on a submarine. If you are taller than I think it's 5'6 or 5'7, you are disqualified from... It's the same as fighter pilots. Fighter pilots have to be under a certain height because they have to fit in the cockpit. Can you imagine a pilot who tries to get in the cockpit and all of a sudden... Alright, I'm ready to go. Go ahead. No! It's not wrong to say you're not qualified. I'm not excluding you. You're not including yourself in what was said. As we open this series, the reason I call Saul the people's king is, Terry, God did let them choose a king. And if you would continue reading on, what you're going to find is, God tells Samuel exactly who to choose. So God does still pick him. He is still anointed the king of Israel. But it was not God's plan. It was the people's plan. It was them who chose, give us a human king like the other nations do. And God said, okay, if that's what you really want... How many? That's right. If that's what you really want, go ahead and chew on that for a couple of years. But how many times in your life have you gone to God and asked for something and then he let you have it, only to discover that it probably wasn't his plan for you to have it in the first place? How many times have you not asked God, God, is this what you want from me? You just assumed you know his will. Oh, I pray, I go to church all the time. Of course I know what God wants for my life. And then all of a sudden you experience the fruit of that decision. God, why are you testing me? I'm not testing you. You're the one who decided to plant that seed in your life.