This morning we are going to continue our series entitled, Jesus is Greater than Religion. Jesus is greater than religion. We began Easter Sunday, and if you have not been here for all of Jesus is Greater than Religion, that's fine. What we've been doing is exploring through Scripture the times when Jesus sort of, Dan, when he faced off, so to speak. We just went to that hockey game, and you know the hockey game starts with a face off, and there's the ref and he's standing there with the puck, and both of the players skate up. And you know the one thing I don't understand in a face off, how come somebody when they're swinging doesn't just knock the ref's feet out from under him? Like I've always wondered that. In hockey, how many just go, wham! Knock the ref over and take the puck. But, needless to say, that was a horrible analogy to get the point across. Well there are multiple times in Scripture where Jesus squared off or faced off with the religious teachers of his day. Nelson, he took issue with several of the things that were going on in the temple in the New Testament. And I believe if we were to examine those experiences, we will see some very real and some very relevant points that we need to have today in our church life. So if you look on the back of your bulletin, there are some notes for you to fill out. In fact, I even gave you some extra lines there at the bottom in case I say something else that happens to be super cool this morning that maybe I hadn't planned on. So please do me a favor, take a look at the back of your notes. Turn with me in your Bibles to the Gospel of Luke. That should be very easy to find. It's Matthew, Mark, Luke. It's the third Gospel in the New Testament. It's also the only book or the only Gospel that is written by a non-Jewish writer that we know of. Turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, Chapter 15. We're just going to look at the first seven verses this morning. Luke, Chapter 15. We figured it out? Alright, we're all good to that. So Luke, Chapter 15. I know the back of your Bible says 1 through 10. That's because I originally had planned on going to 1 through 10. And then after I printed the bulletins, I looked back over my notes and we're really just going to do 1 to 7. So Luke, Chapter 15, verses 1 through 7. I have it for you here on the screen in the New Living Translation. So here's Luke, Chapter 15, verses 1 through 7. So Jesus told them this story. If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them gets lost, what will he do? Won't he leave the 99 others in the wilderness and go to search for the one that is lost until he finds it? And when he has found it, he will joyfully carry it home on his shoulders. And when he arrives, he will call together his friends and neighbors saying, Rejoice with me because I have found my lost sheep. In the same way, there is more joy in heaven over one lost sinner who repents and returns to God than over 99 others who are righteous and haven't strayed away. Now if you know anything about this chapter, here's a short overview. Luke, Chapter 15. This is the beginning seven verses. If you follow Luke, Chapter 15 all the way through, Julie, what you're going to find is three separate stories that Jesus uses, these are parables he uses, to respond really to the Pharisees' claim in chapter, in verse 1. The story of the lost sheep, second, the parable of the lost coin, and third, most notably, probably one of the most popular stories Jesus ever told, the parable of the lost son, or what we call the prodigal son. This is how the whole chapter opens up. And when I get later on in the message, all three stories really follow the same pattern. So let me give you our first blank this morning, and then I want to go back through the text and sort of unpack this because I think there's some really cool stuff here. So here's your first blank this morning. They had the wrong attitude. They had the wrong attitude. They had the wrong attitude. Let's take a look at the first two verses of our chapter this morning, just verses 1 and 2. Tax collectors and other notorious sinners often came to listen to Jesus teach. Stop there for just a second. What about that sentence makes any kind of sense? Jesus is the Messiah. Of course, we know this. He's the Messiah. He's the Son of God. And yet the primary audience to his ministry, the primary, Dan, the primary audience to his teaching is not religious people. The primary first-hand audience, people who got to hear the most of Jesus' teaching ministry were not the Levites. Were not the Levites. Were not the Pharisees. Were not the Sadducees. Were not the temple guards. They were not the people that looked like religious. They were, I love the way the NLT says this, notorious sinners. Notorious. That word just all of a sudden everybody thinks big, right? Everybody thinks notorious B-I-G. That word notorious in and of itself, its context means, Julie, we're not just talking about somebody who sinned one time by accident. Like oops, my bad, sin. We're talking about someone who has a reputation. Sean, someone who has sinned enough that they've become known for it. They have become so known that they are now notorious for that repeated sinful offense or activity. And these are the people who often came. Often. So not only, this is Jonathan, just word picture for a minute. They're not only known for sin, right? I'm a notorious sinner. I'm a notorious something. But I'm now also known as often coming to listen to Jesus teach. So just put that picture in your mind for a second. Thank you so much sir. Put that picture in your mind for a second. Dan, as we open our text, we are looking at, now number one we should also cover, why are tax collectors disliked in the New Testament? This is super important to this particular parable. Why are tax collectors disliked in the New Testament? Number one, okay, okay, it's April 16th, no one likes the IRS. I dig that. But there's a theological principle at play. Why are tax collectors disliked in the New Testament? It is because they're unfair. That's correct. They would collect more than what the tax was and kind of line their own pockets with it. Can anybody go deeper? There's another reason why Jews don't like tax collectors. Yes, taking Jewish money and giving it to Roman hands. A lot of the hardcore, especially the religious elite, Jessica, they saw this as a betrayal of their people. You're taking, you're a Jew and you're taking Jewish money and you're giving it to pagan hands. And not only that, but you're skimming off the top as you're stealing from your own people to pay the powerful, murderous government who's basically taken us over and occupied us. And now you're helping them to rob from your own people. So the tax collectors were viewed as betrayers. And this is the opening audience for Jesus' teaching today. Our Jewish betrayers and other notorious sinners often came to listen to Jesus teach. This made the Pharisees and teachers of the religious law complain that he was associating with such sinful people and even eating with them. Let me take this in two halves. Number one, the association factor. The Pharisees and teachers of the religious law considered it super important to guard who they were around. I'm going to try to lay this up in such a way so that it's not super offensive. The Pharisees and teachers of the religious law saw it as their religious responsibility, Ms. Lena, to ensure that the people that they spent their time with, the people they socialized with, the people that they spoke to, were all of a certain level of religious caliber. And as such, Ali, if I'm your friend and you are, quote, of the religious caliber that I find acceptable to be friends with, so congratulations to the star. But maybe you have a friend who I don't think is up to snuff. You have a friend, we'll call her June. You have a friend named June, and I don't think June is of the right spiritual caliber to hang out with me. Now I've got to make a choice. Either I'm going to disassociate my friendship with you, which would be bad, or you know what's even worse, Jonathan, I'm going to come to y'all and tell you to disassociate from her. And that's what's going on here. Look at the way this happens. The Pharisees and teachers of the religious law are totally not hanging out with tax collectors and notorious sinners, right? That's obvious. But now they're taking it a step further. Ms. Vicki, they're not only not hanging out with tax collectors and sinners, they're complaining when someone else does it. They're so perfect in their own mind. They're so convinced of their own religious superiority. Ms. Glenda, I'm good enough to tell you who you can and can't spend time with. I mean, just, woo! I'm sure none of us know someone like that. Those people don't exist anymore. Hallelujah, thank you, Jesus. We live in the most perfect church on the planet. But back when Jesus walked the earth, sin was still a problem. The Pharisees and teachers of the religious law complained because Jesus was associating with sinful people. And then let's take the last couple here. And even eating with them. Why is this super important? Well, understand who we're talking about. Pharisees. Ali, the Pharisees have a lot of extra laws that they've added to the law of Moses. And several of them have to do with ritual washing, ritual cleansing, and eating. And so when Jesus, as a respected teacher, someone who's in the temple and he's teaching, and people are coming to him to listen and teach about God, when he decides, Terry, to go and, you know, just, you know, have people over who are those people, he's eating with those people, all of a sudden the teachers of the religious law are like, wait a minute, you can't eat with these people on Saturday and still teach on church on Sunday. Oh, I know that never happens today, but I'm saying when Jesus was ministering, there was a problem. You can't spend your Fridays and Saturdays with those people and then still expect to have the spiritual level of whatever to come into the temple and teach. And this is the dichotomy that sets up this entire chapter. You can please do me a favor, go home this week and read the whole chapter. Take in the whole rebuke that Jesus gives with these three separate stories. We only have time for the first one this morning. But what I want you to see is that it's the attitude of the Pharisees and teachers of the religious law, Nelson, that sets up this whole chapter. Their attitude is, I am so good, I don't have time for those people. And now Jesus opens with this story. So let me give you a second point and then we'll go a little deeper. Here's point number two. God's priorities are different. God's priorities are different. God's priorities are different. Let's take a look at verses three and four of our text this morning. So the Pharisees lay up this super self-righteous religious attitude. And Jesus responds with a parable. I love the way Jesus teaches without, like he's got to know he's slapping him in the face, Diane. But he's slapping him in the face in a very, very Jesus kind of way. So Jesus told them this story. If a man has 100 sheep and one of them gets lost, stop. First off, understand, Jess, this is a parable. This is a proverbial guy. You know, it's like the proverbial man on an island. This guy doesn't exist. He is a straw man, for lack of a better term, for Jesus to teach the lesson he's trying to teach. So for those of you who are super good at math, how many percent of the sheep are lost? No, no, no, lost. One percent. Okay. The guy who works at the bank. That's scary. I don't know that I'm getting a loan from you next. Okay. Ninety-nine percent, ten percent, one percent. Right. One percent. Because just take the first sentence. If a man has 100 sheep and one of them gets lost. So just, you know, keep your frame of reference. We're talking about the smallest of percents, right, Dan? The way Jesus sets up the story, most people in their right mind would not trade 99 percent for one percent. But that is the way Jesus lays up the parable. 100 sheep and one of them gets lost. What will he do? Won't he leave the 99 others in the wilderness? And that word wilderness there, circle, underline, long press, highlight. Do something. That word wilderness is going to be super important when we get to the end. Won't he leave the 99 others in the wilderness and go search for the one that is lost until he finds it? Now, to truly understand again, the sheep aren't real sheep. The guy is not a real guy. Miss Julie, the whole thing is a story. It's a parable. Which means each part of this story represents something Jesus is trying to levy to the Pharisees and teachers of the Jewish law. Who's the one percent? Who's the one percent? I heard it. The sinners, right? The tax collectors, the notorious sinners. They're the one percent, right? They're the ones that Jesus is teaching. Who's the 99? The holier than now. That's exactly right, Miss Julie. The Pharisees, the teachers of the religious law, and everyone else who follows their example. So Jesus is setting up the dichotomy. The one sheep who's lost that the shepherd goes after, that's the sinners, the tax collectors, those less than, those people who Jesus is teaching. The 99 are the people that Jesus is correcting. The Pharisees, the teachers of the religious law, who's the shepherd? Well, we know it's Jesus, right? But who's the shepherd in Jesus' story? God. And that's super important to understand. We know that Jesus is the Savior, right, Miss Glenna? We have the Word of God. We have history to prove it. We know that Jesus is the Son of God. But they don't. And it's super important when you read this text of Scripture, you have to be in the moment. Jonathan, we've got to go back there. We've got to stand in that timeframe, be the proverbial fly on the wall, and understand the text to the audience who's speaking. Jesus is speaking. Now, obviously, we know Jesus is the Good Shepherd. And yes, I do believe one could argue he's referring to himself. But the Pharisees don't get that. The Pharisees don't get it at all. All they think is, wait a minute, like, I'm the self-righteous one. I'm the one who teaches every Sunday at church. I'm the one who's in charge of the temple. I'm the one that you bring your sacrifices to. So the Pharisees see themselves as the righteous when the reality is Jesus is laying up. No, the heart of God exists here in the search for the one who's lost. So we know that Jesus is the Good Shepherd. But the shepherd in the story that's really being referred to is God himself. And that's super important. God's priorities. Miss Diane, God's priority was the 1% who were lost, not the 99% who thought they weren't. You see that? God's heart, his desire is to seek those who are lost. Now, if you read the rest of the Gospels, what you get is one of Jesus' disciples was a tax collector. Who was it? Matthew. Yeah, I said it real fast and I went, oh, Bill, come on. One of Jesus' disciples was a tax collector. And believe the story of his calling, we find it in Matthew, and then you also see it again in John. So Jesus even called one of these notorious sinners to be one of his inner twelve, one of his closest ministry companions. But as we're breaking down this parable, let's be super clear about who the players are. The 1% are the sinners, those who are lost, those who know they're lost. The 99% they're the Pharisees, the teachers of the religious law, the people who are convinced that their presence in the temple automatically makes them righteous. And who's the shepherd? It's God's heart. Now, we know that's embodied in Jesus, but Jesus is the one telling the story. Here's your third blank. And here's where it starts to get fun. The shepherd carries the burden. The shepherd carries the burden. The shepherd carries the burden. Let's look at verse five. Here's verse five. So Jesus has heard the complaining of the religious elite of his day. He is responding to their complaint with this parable, Nelson. He's told us about the shepherd. 99% of the flock are over here, 1% are over there. And yet the shepherd in his heart leaves the 99 in the wilderness, and he goes after the one who is lost. And he seeks it, the last verse said, until he finds it. It's not like a, oh, he's not there. All right, recalibrate. We got 99 now. I'm done. He didn't do that. Melissa, the heart of the shepherd sought until he found it. And then look what happens. And when he found it, he will joyfully carry it. Underline, long press, circle, highlight that word carry. Single most important part of this verse. Follow the story. Put yourself there. You are walking. Jess, you are a hunter. I'm going to make you a hunter. You are walking through the Judean wilderness, and you see one lone sheep. Rather than hunt it, you sit back for a second, and you're just watching. You're just watching to see what's going to happen. And then over the crest of the ridge comes this kind of scruffy, sort of just-got-his-hair-cut-looking shepherd. And he walks over the ridge, and you see him look around, and then you see it. He locks eyes on his sheep. And he knows it's his sheep. And he walks right up to the sheep. Now, here's a super important point. How does he get close enough to pick up the sheep? You ever think about it? It's one random sheep. He's in the middle of the wilderness. The sheep is surrounded by danger and predators and is on high alert. Because, let's be honest, sheep have no offensive weaponry. They have no claws. They definitely have no camouflage. Like, they're pretty much a prey animal if there ever was one. How does the shepherd get close enough to the sheep to pick them up? Yes, the sheep, the shepherd. Didn't we read in the Gospel of John that Jesus is the good shepherd? My sheep, they know my voice. In fact, if you were to study shepherding in the first century and earlier into the Old Testament, what you would find is two shepherds, remember Tuesday and Wednesday nighters, Abraham and Lot, right? Genesis chapter 12, what happens? They have so many sheep that they have to separate. Did you know when the shepherds had their flocks out in the field, Miss Vicki, the flocks would intermingle? And then all the shepherd had to do was walk in the midst of his flock and speak. And the flocks would part because they know the voice of the shepherd. So you could have two completely different flocks mixed into one another. And Miss Allie, all the shepherd had to do was walk in the midst of his sheep and speak to them. And knowing the sound of his voice, the shepherd, the sheep would separate and follow their shepherd away from each other. So, put that in your mind. Jess, you're back on your hillside. You've got your arrow ready, but now you're going to watch. You're going to see how this plays out. So up walks this Judean-looking Jewish shepherd, and he begins to speak to the one lost sheep in a calming tone. Because you've got to know the sheep is scared. It's frightened. It can drown. It can break a leg and die. It can get eaten by multiple predators that exist. It's in a very precarious and dangerous situation. Here's a super good point. Miss Lena, the sheep is in a dangerous situation whether it knows it or not. Right? You don't have to know that there's a predator near you for you to be in danger. And all too often, the predator may strike before you ever knew he was there. So the sheep is already in danger whether he knows it or not. And here walks the shepherd, and the shepherd got male. And with the calming nature of his voice, the shepherd approaches the sheep. And then he picks him up, and he puts him on his shoulders. Here's the most, in my opinion, Miss Julie, this is the part that made me tear up a little bit when I was prepping this. Who got lost? Let's be honest. If we go back to the story that Jesus lays up, Jesus said, if a man has 100 sheep and one of them gets lost. That means the lost predicament that our 1% sheep has found himself in or herself in is completely of his own doing. The sheep is lost all on its own. It's not like the shepherd took the other 99 and goes, dude, he's asleep. Let's go over here. It'll totally freak him out. It's not like the shepherd's fault that the 1% is lost. He didn't move the 99, and like the unicorn who couldn't figure out how to get on the ark, the 1% was just like, do-de-do, and he got himself lost. No, the 1% is lost. But who, Jonathan, who has the responsibility, the burden, who takes control of the restoration of the lost sheep? The shepherd. He finds his sheep with the calming nature of his voice. He gets close enough to embrace him, and then Miss Glenna, in an unprecedented move, he picks the sheep up and he places the sheep on his shoulders. And now the shepherd is carrying 100% of the burden for the restoration of the lost sheep. The sheep does not get himself found. The shepherd saves. That's super important. It's also super good. That was an amen point. That was super good. The shepherd saves the sheep, not the other way around. The sheep didn't all of a sudden go, wait a minute. Okay, Google, navigate me back to my shepherd. That is not what happens. The sheep is lost in and of his own right. Mr. Dan, no way to get home. It's the shepherd who carries the burden to restore the sheep to where he needs to be. So the shepherd goes out and he, and I love this word, he joyfully carries. Miss Vicki, this is not a troublesome or worrisome activity for the shepherd. He joyfully carries his sheep home with him. Now obviously, what is Jesus saying here? Sean, Jesus is juxtaposing his character as the good shepherd. He's showing the true heart of God in juxtaposition to the heart of the Pharisees. Miss Judy, the Pharisees are like, well, I'm not even going to associate or eat with those people because my godly righteous level is like a 10 and y'all are like a minus two. And if I get near you, then I'm going to go down to an eight and that's not okay with me. And so the religious leaders of the day, they saw their righteousness by who they were in proximity to. They defined their righteousness by who they were around. And what Jonathan, what Jesus is saying is your righteousness means nothing. It's the shepherd who brought the sheep back. You didn't earn it. You didn't buy it. You didn't get it from some trade. It's the shepherd who carried the sheep. The shepherd knew he was lost, sought him and looked for him until he found him. And then here, the shepherd carries the burden. Here's your fourth blank this morning. The shepherd carries the burden and then repentance brings rejoicing. Repentance brings rejoicing. Let's take a look at verse six. Verse six. And when he arrives, he who? The proverbial shepherd in our story. The proverbial shepherd in our story. When he arrives, he will call together his friends and neighbors saying, Rejoice with me. I have found my lost sheep. Again, Ms. Glenna, Jesus is pointing out the horrible, selfish, self-righteous attitude of the Pharisees. And he's juxtaposing that against the true heart of God, which Jesus himself lives out. The shepherd goes. He physically puts the sheep on his shoulders. He carries the burden of the sheep's restoration. And then when he gets home, he's so joyful and excited about finding my lost sheep, he calls together his friends and rejoice with me. I found my lost sheep. Now again, your mind is probably already going there. Jesus is talking about salvation, right? We know that. We get the big picture today because we have the written word of God. We know that Jesus is the good shepherd. But Jonathan, take it back to day one. Take it back to you're in the temple. And you're one of the tax collectors or the notorious sinners that Jesus is teaching. And so you're watching him have this dialogue with the Pharisees. And then you hear Jesus say, he'll call together his friends and neighbors saying, Rejoice with me because I found my lost sheep. You probably know who the lost sheep is. If you've been listening to Jesus, I just, I got to be honest, if there's one thing I could go back in time and do, like I have a list of them. But one of them would be to go back and listen to Jesus preach the sermon on the mouth. Oh man, what I love, to hear Jesus like legit in the flesh. Like if I could go back and just witness the teaching of Jesus, the anointed son of God, speaking the very words of God on earth, I have to believe that Jesus' ministry was incredibly life changing. So we're sitting there in the temple and then we hear Jesus make a statement like this, that we left the 99%. Don't forget that. Most people would choose 99% of something over 1% that you might find. Keep in mind, the 1% was still lost. Terry, he still had to go get it. Would you trade 99% of something you have right now for 1% of something that you might have to go find? Most people would not. And yet that is what Jesus is trying to teach both Jonathan and his tax collecting sinner friends, and the Pharisees and teachers of religious law. God's got a way bigger priority and here it is. God rejoices at repentance. The shepherd rejoiced at repentance. Now, who are the friends? Right? Let's go back to the story. The 99% are the religious people. The 1% are Jonathan and his sinner friends. The shepherd is God. Who rejoices with God? The angels in heaven, that's exactly right. We see that multiple times in the gospel. All of the heavenly presence rejoices when a sinner is saved from being alone in the wilderness. This is not just something that affects God's heart, but Miss Judy, this is something that affects the angelic host of heaven. They collectively rejoice when someone who is lost is turned and found. Now, let me give you your last blank. Your last blank is the 99% are still lost. Here's the part of the story that I think really starts to turn it on its head. The 99% are still lost. Luke 15 verse 7. In the same way, there is more joy in heaven over one lost sinner who repents and returns to God than over 99% others who are righteous and haven't straight away. There is a common misconception with this parable. And that's why hopefully I've led you down a path that you'll be able to understand this now. Sean, most people, if you just read this parable outright, when you get to the end, Jesus is talking about the difference between sinners and saints. Jesus is talking about the difference between those who don't know him and those who do. That is an incorrect reading of this parable. Number one, nobody knows that Jesus is the Messiah yet. Jesus is still teaching during his earthly ministry. There's been no Easter. There's been no crucifixion. There's half of the miracles that Jesus has performed haven't happened yet. So Ali, you've got to sort of strip away some of the things that we know about Jesus and put ourselves in the time frame. They don't know everything that we know yet. Now keep in mind, who are the players in our story? The 1%, Jonathan and his tax collecting notorious sinner friends. Who are the 99%? The religious elite, the Pharisees, the teachers of the religious law. If you read this in the original text, what the original text is, is over 99 others who need no repentance. To have it straight away is a much more modernized way of saying it. But here's the problem. Miss Diane, are the Pharisees made right with God through their self-righteous actions? No. Self-righteousness never makes us right with God. So from the get-go of the story, the 99% were always lost. You know the difference between the 99% and the 1%? The 1% was alone and knew it was lost. The 99% are all the people who go to church and still don't realize they don't know Jesus. Here's where the story takes a big turn. The 99% Jonathan are not people who are already saved. They're people who are so wrapped up in self-righteous religious living that they don't know they're in the wilderness. Go all the way back to the beginning of Jesus' story. In verse 3, if a man has a hundred sheep and one of them gets lost, what will he do? Won't he leave the 99 others where? In the wilderness. Mr. Dan, the 99 that Jesus left were lost and thought they were saved. The 1% that Jesus went after is Jonathan and his tax collecting sinner friends. They know they're not living right and they're listening to Jesus because of it. The biggest aha moment about this parable is the 99% are not saved people. They are self-righteous religious people who think they're saved, who think they're better than everybody else, and the 1% is the one the shepherd actually carried back. That's the biggest sort of torpedo to hit the bottom of the story. Because, Ali, if we just read it, we want to start connecting the dots automatically. Oh, yeah, Jesus goes after the sinner. He brings the sinner back. And Miss Diane, then they're part of the church. But the 99% aren't at home with the shepherd. They're still in the wilderness. Which means, Miss Judy, the 99% who've been sitting here the entire time are still surrounded by as much danger and predators as the one. The difference? The shepherd didn't stay here. He went after the people who were alone and lost. The 99% was never intended to represent super-saved. The 99%? Who's Jesus telling the story to? Miss Glenna, Pharisees, teachers of the religious law, people who think that their self-righteous living is so good that they're automatically made right with God by their own choices when the reality is they are so wrapped up in their own selfish religious mindset that the Savior went, listen, that cat at least knows he's lost. One of the biggest barriers to accepting Jesus is getting over the fact that you can't do it yourself. And that's where the Pharisees probably had their biggest mistake. Terry, they were convinced. They had the law of Moses. Then if you know anything about the Pharisees, they built their own law around the law of Moses. They called it the tradition of the elders. And so they obeyed so much self-imposed law, they were convinced of their own self-righteousness. And I know no one today feels that way. We don't have any of that problem in the church today. But if we did, how dangerous would it be to get coddled and sit back and believe that just because we go to church and we sing a worship song and we read a Bible verse and we have a Christian radio station on in our car, and those attitudes in and of themselves make us right with God. You just fell into the 99, not the 1. To be the 1%, you have to recognize I cannot bring myself back by any other means than being carried on the shoulders of the shepherd. As I was writing this message and thinking about this close, sometimes I have to write out what I want to say, Ms. Judy, because the ADHD just gets going. So let me read the way I really want to say it. Jesus challenged the religious attitude of his day by exposing their misguided motivations of trying to show their righteousness by any abstinence or action of their own doing. Jesus challenges our righteous climate today by reminding us that we are still lost sheep without his seeking and his saving. We have no right to look down upon, mistreat, or disassociate with anyone because of our quote, faith in Christ. If anything, it is our faith that should propel us back into the wilderness to fulfill the mission of sharing Christ with those sheep who have lost as we used to be. If you are truly lost, Ali, you can't save yourself. That's the biggest lie of the church. If I go to church every Sunday and I give my tithe and I attend a Bible study and I speak the right words and I don't go see the wrong movies and I don't eat this or I don't smoke that or I don't use these words when talking to my church friends because my Friday night friends are totally legit and my Sunday morning friends are not, you're a hypocrite. Like, the 99% of people are hypocrites. It's the 1% who said, Jesus, there is no way I can get back without you. Those are the people the shepherd goes after. Why do I think that Jesus is greater than self-righteousness? Simply because, Miss Vicki, from the beginning of the Word of God all the way until today, self-righteousness buys nothing when it comes to salvation. You cannot live holy enough in and of yourself to make your relationship right with God. The only way to be restored to God is to be carried on the shoulders of the shepherd himself. That's the message, Miss Julie, that Jesus was trying to teach the Pharisees. And I want to invite you this week to read the rest of chapter 15. What you'll find is the parable of the lost coin. It's very similar to the parable of the lost sheep. Neither the coin nor the sheep make decisions to come home. Then you get to the parable of the prodigal son. And if you know that story, you know, wait a minute, the son finally wakes up. He goes, wait a minute, I can go home. And then in the process of going home, here's what I want you to do. I want to spoil the surprise. Mr. Dan, sometime this week, go read all of chapter 15 and read the older brother's response. The parable of the prodigal son. The prodigal son has an older brother. The older brother never strayed. The older brother stayed with the father. Read his response. And this is what I want you to understand. Those were the religious people. The brother was the one who thought he was righteous because of proximity, not because of relationship. It's the prodigal who comes back.