We're going to begin a brand new series this morning entitled The Monster in Me. All month long we will be examining different monsters. And by monster I'm using it as an analogy. And what I mean is not the typical monster that you see in a movie. What I mean is there are these traits, there are these ideas that exist within each one of us that battle against our faith. They are the monsters that terrorize the life of faith. So this morning if you'll turn to the back of your bulletin, you'll notice that I've given you some blanks to follow along with me. What I'd like to ask you to do is follow along. We will have the blanks on the screen. Before we get into that though, let me give you the full title. This morning is The Vampire of Worry. The Vampire of Worry. The Vampire of Worry. Now, you're getting ahead of me Mr. Kevin. Just shush. Don't rush the preacher. I didn't say shut up, I said shush. I was churchy about it. Alright, shush. I've got a little quiz for you here. On my board I have four of the most popular traits of vampires in lore, legend, and film. And rather than have everyone yell, first person please give me one of the most popular traits of vampires. Riley. What's that? Pale skin is one, but it didn't make my list. Miss Diane. Bloodsucker. That was number one on my list. Vampires consume life. Alright, another one. Tell me. Yes, sir. They are destroyed by light. That's right. Destroyed by light. Excellent. Something else about vampires. Yes, ma'am. Allergies to garlic, but that one didn't make my list. Yes. Generally they don't like crosses. Also not on my list. There's two more I'm looking for. Sleeping coffins. Sleeping coffins. That's close. They live in the dark. Yes, ma'am. They do transform into bats, but that didn't make my list. Teeth. Teeth also didn't make my list. They do have good hair, right? In most movies, vampires...no, no. No reflection. We're dancing all around it. How long do they live? Forever. They live forever. Why? Because they don't die easily. They're hard to kill. Now, I have to say I'm a vampire movie fan. If there's a movie and it has had vampires in it, with the exception of Twilight, it was good. With the exception of Twilight. To be told, I do own the entire Twilight series in HD. Bought it for my wife as a gift. No, I did. My nieces were all there. They watched them all in one day. They just had an absolute Twilight fest. Vampire was my favorite monster growing up. I used to watch the old monster movies where the Dracula and Frankenstein and the Wolfman, they were all on one big team and they always did stuff together. It always seemed like the vampire was the guy in charge. The reason that I picked these four items for our list today is because I think these four items also very well illustrate how worry works in your life. Worry consumes the life and excitement out of what we experience. Worry does not go away easily. Worry lives in the dark places of our hearts that we don't like to tell other people about. And worry is ultimately destroyed when it's brought out into the light. So this morning as we go throughout our message, I want you to think about the worry, that little worry monster that's in your life that may be even unintentionally and subconsciously drawing the life out of you. Now if you have your Bibles with you this morning, I want to invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew should be pretty easy to find. It's the first book in the New Testament. Matthew will be in chapter 6 starting in verse 24. So if you will turn or click, those of you who brought your digital Bibles this morning, turn or click with me to Matthew chapter 6. In verse 6, we're going to begin reading in verse 24. Matthew chapter 6 verse 24. To set the stage for you, we are jumping into the middle of one of Jesus' most famous teachings, the Sermon on the Mount. We are jumping right into the middle of the Sermon on the Mount. I have it for you here on the screen in the New Living Translation. This is Matthew chapter 6 beginning in verse 24. This is Jesus himself speaking to a crowd. No one can serve two masters, for you will hate one and love the other. You will be devoted to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and be enslaved to money. This is why I tell you not to worry about everyday life, whether you have enough food or drink or enough clothes to wear. Isn't life more than food and your body more than clothing? Look at the birds. They don't plant or harvest or store food in barns, for your heavenly father feeds them. And aren't you far more valuable to him than they are? Can all your worries add a single moment to your life? And why worry about your clothing? Look at the lilies of the field and how they grow. They don't work or make clothing, yet Solomon in all his glory was not dressed as beautiful as they are. And if God cares so wonderfully for the wild flowers that are here today and thrown in the fire tomorrow, he will certainly care for you. Why do you have so little faith? So don't worry about these things, saying what will we eat and what will we drink? What will we wear? These things dominate the thoughts of unbelievers, but your heavenly father already knows all your needs. Seek the kingdom of God above all else and live righteously, and he will give you everything you need. So don't worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will bring its own worries. Today has enough trouble for today. Right? Just a hmm on that right there. Here's your first blank this morning. Your first blank on the back of your bulletin. Worry starts with trust. Worry starts with trust. Now what I want to do is I want to go back through the passage we just read and sort of break it down into some chewable chunks and take a look at it. Worry starts with trust. So let's look at the first two verses, 24 and 25. Now I'm sure some of you noticed I didn't start with verse 25 that talks about Jesus says, this is why I tell you not to worry. The reason is if you read all of Jesus' sermon, Fred, the worry portion is directly connected and contingent on the portion that comes before it. So I gave you the final kind of summation of Jesus' previous topic, which was talking about money. No one can serve two masters, for he will hate one and love the other. You will be devoted to one and despise or your translation may say hate the other. I want to talk about that word hate for a moment, because in our modern day culture and our modern day language, the word hate has a very strong meaning. But in this culture and in this day, the word hate did not mean what it means today. Melissa, if you hate something today, you despise it, you despise everything that has to do with it. You are very anti everything. But in the first century, when someone said they hated something, it did not mean that they despised it. It means that they liked it or loved it less than another thing. That's why Jesus said no one can follow me unless he hates his mother and father. That's not our modern day understanding of the word hate where I truly hate my mom and dad. It means no, I must love Jesus more than my mom and dad. I must love my mom and dad less than I love my savior. So when Jesus says here that you must hate one, what he is intentionally saying here is, Jonathan, you must love money less than you love God. That makes sense. You must love money less than or with a less amount, a less trust in the way you love God. For you will hate one and love the other, you will be devoted to one, you will despise the other. And in this next sentence, you cannot serve God and be enslaved to money. I love the New Living Translation because it catches a nuance here that some of the older translations don't. A lot of older translations will say you cannot serve both God and money, which is a literal translation, but it misses something. Miss Diane, that word serve. You got to remember in the New Testament time, slavery is a very popular form of business. We're talking about what? Jesus is teaching. He's probably teaching here between 30 and 31 BC, the height of the Roman Empire. The Roman Empire was built on the backs of slaves. They imported them. They enslaved nations when they conquered them. Slavery is an everyday part of a first century life. And it's not just slavery of a particular race, like the way we experience slavery in our country's history. This is slavery of everyone. Anyone that they defeated was sold into slavery, and the Roman Empire was built on the back of it. When he uses that word serve, you cannot, right here, you cannot serve and be enslaved. In the original Greek, that's the same word. It's the same verb. The same exact word that means to serve also means to be enslaved. Think about Paul. What did he say? I am a bond servant or I am a slave to Christ? He's using the same word there. What he's trying to illustrate is the way we serve God can be the same as we are enslaved to money, i.e. where do you put your trust? When push comes to shove and there's too much month for the money, right? Anybody ever been there? All of a sudden the money runs out, but there's still months to go? Like, been there, I live that. Right? Just stop there and just preach on that for a minute. When you have more months than you have money, what do you trust in? Because you cannot trust in both God and money. You cannot serve God and be enslaved to money. Let me give a great example. We have a very monetary driven capitalistic culture in our country. I love the United States of America. I am so proud and privileged to have been born as a citizen of our country. But we have a money problem. You know what our money problem is? That's our problem. Everything's about money. I try to teach people all the time this relationship between time and money. We spend our time going to work to make money. And then with the time we have left, we spend our money enjoying our time. One of those is a renewable resource and one is not. You can always spend more time to make money, but you can't spend a dime to make more time. So between money, one is a renewable resource and one is not. And yet our country is built on the concept of earning money and spending money. Our economy is built on the value of trade and money. I'm not saying that we should ignore how much money is a part of our lives. But at the end of the day, money should not be the God. Money should not be that which gets you up, that which drives you to work, that which gets you home. It should be God and serving God in excellence in whatever your vocation happens to be. That turns work into ministry. When you go to work every day and you see the way you work as an outlet of God's excellence in your life, you just turned your job into ministry. You're not working for the paycheck. You're working for God and you get a paycheck at whatever you happen to do in your vocation. Jesus is making a very clear statement. You cannot have God as priority one and money as priority one. You will have to choose. And I know we're sitting in church on Sunday morning and everyone's going to go, I choose God. I know. We all love God. That's not the question. But Monday when you go to work, are you going to work for the money or are you going to work for God? Not just Sunday when we come to church. Obviously when we come to church, we're putting God first. I get that. What about Tuesday? What about Thursday? What about that Thursday afternoon slump when you know you still have to go back to work on Friday and you're like, ah, it's not Friday yet. Walking dead, dragging yourself into work. I know everyone loves their job. No one feels that way. I know. I'm just talking from my own experience. This is not the time to elbow. You can only have one first priority. And before we talk about how does the vampire of worry suck things out of our life, Jesus is making a very clear link between worry and that which you place your trust in for your life. You cannot serve both God and money. And if money is what you live for, you are in for a world of worry. Take a look at what he says next. That is why I tell you not to worry. See, Zadok, most of the time when people go to the worry passage in this scripture, they start with that verse. That's why I tell you not to worry. Well, anybody who knows anything about English goes, well, wait a minute. What did he just say? The whole key to understanding Jesus' teaching about worry is to first understand Jesus' teaching about money. You have to understand he wants God to be priority one. And when God is priority one, that is why I tell you not to worry about everyday life. Whether you have enough food or drink or enough clothes to wear. Is it life more than food? Is it your body more than clothing? If your life is only lived for the dollar, your life's only value is the dollars you have. When your life is all about the money and you got no more money, your life feels value less. And therein lies that vampire of worry. Take a look at your second blank this morning. Nope. The second blank should be we worry about provision. There it is. We worry about provision. In the next couple of verses, Jesus gives two very clear topics on which worry happens quite frequently. The first is we worry about provision. Let's take a look at verses 26 and 27. It starts with look. Yep. Look at the birds. Just stop. Look. Look at the birds. No. Like can you imagine if Jesus took a pause on that one? It'd be like in the middle of a twirl. Everyone would have gone, what was that? Sometimes I just think if you, because we're reading someone who wrote down Jesus' teachings, so we don't necessarily always get the inflection. Miss Josephine, how funny would it have been for Jesus to be like, look at the birds? Take a nice little pregnant pause there. They don't plant or harvest or store food in barns. Stop. What is Jesus describing? Planting, harvesting, storing in barns. What is he describing? Agriculture. The life of a farmer. Who is Jesus' primary audience? Agrarian society. Farmers, shepherds. People who have a direct relationship to the land for their provision. Unlike today, several of us can go to work, go to a business, and your business may not necessarily be related to farming or to agriculture. Unless you're Zadok. Unless you're Zadok and you're like, what was that bird you were hunting the other week? Yeah, that one. I didn't even know we had woodpeckers in Florida. And he's out there putting tags on them. You have to understand Jesus' audience when he's teaching. Most of the people that are listening to him get their sustenance and provision from the land itself. We're still talking the very beginning of this millennia. Most people were agrarian in their understanding. So they understood this three-step process. First, you plant seed. Then you have to what? Wait. Then after you wait, then you have to harvest it. But you can't eat it all, you can't consume it all, and you can't sell it all the day you harvest it. So if you don't also store it up correctly, you lose some of your initial investment. Part of what was stored becomes the seed for the next season. Jesus is describing the entire life cycle of provision in these three simple steps. Plant, harvest, store, and barns. That's their entire year. If you live your life based on the seasons of crops, you live your life based on those three simple variables. This is the time for me to plant. Then I wait, I watch it grow, I keep the bugs out, I keep the weeds out, stop the bunnies from eating my carrots, because I watch Winnie the Pooh, that's right. Winnie the Pooh will preach. Jesus in that beginning of that sentence, he just summed up their entire life on how they have to trust God and live off the land. And then he says, look at the birds. They don't do any of the work you do, but your heavenly father feeds them. Aren't you more valuable to him than they are? Now Jonathan Jesus is personal. Jonathan, the birds don't do any of the work you do, and yet you worry and they don't. The birds are not flying around going, hey George, where are we going to eat today? They have an instinctual understanding that the creation of God was made to provide for them. And they do so. And yet here, Jesus is talking about the whole life cycle of the agrarian farmer, and he's saying, don't you think that you're more valuable than the very birds of the air? Can all your worries add a single moment to your life? And here is one of the worst ways that they can do that in your life. You spend time worrying that you'll never get back. The time you've spent in worry is time that has been taken. You never get that time back. Time is one of the most non-renewable resources in your life. As every second goes by, it's gone forever. Can we truly even add a moment to our life by worrying about something? Absolutely not. Jesus just talked about their entire life in that first clause, planting, harvesting, storing food and barn. You guys don't got time for worry. You're working. Now that should be said, there's nothing wrong with good stewardship. There's nothing wrong with working hard in excellence. But you should not in the midst of your life, in the midst of going to work, in the midst of coming home, in the midst of paying your bills, in the midst of balancing your budgets, in the midst of planning for your vacation, you should not let worry creep in because you are more valuable to God than that. When you truly see your value in the Father's eyes, worry becomes smaller. That make sense? Let's look at your next blank. The next thing we worry about, we worry about provision. We also worry about perception. Does someone have the Usher Count Sheet? I forgot to bring it in. Jonathan, can you check for me? We also worry about perception. Let's take a look at the next couple of verses. This is 28 through the first part of verse 30. It starts with, and why worry? One thing I should mention, you'll notice I don't have any verse notations on the screens. That's because when the Bible was originally written, there were no chapters and verses. Chapters and verses were added hundreds of years later. So what we're doing this morning is to put it together. But when you read the Bible, there were really no chapters and verses. Take a look at this. What's the next thing we worry about? Why worry about your clothing? Stop. Just stop by itself. Why worry about your clothing? We tend to think of perception, image, reputation as modern-day concepts of worry. But the reality is people have been worried about fashion for centuries, for millennia. People have always been trying to outdress one another, outdo one another. It doesn't matter if you look at the Roman culture, Mesopotamian, the ancient Chinese. Whatever culture you look at, stature was always reflected throughout our garments. Not mine, just to be clear. Not mine. My wife picks out my clothes, and before I'm allowed to walk out of the house, I go, Does this skirt ever inside? She goes, Bill, Bill, no, no, no. I will absolutely willingly admit, Sabina, I have no fashion sense whatsoever. If it wasn't for my wife, I would still be wearing socks with flip-flops. Yeah. My wife had, my sister-in-law, she's known me for like what, 13, 14 years. She will attest. I have no fashion sense whatsoever. I have no fashion sense. She's got the pictures to prove it. I'm telling you, hey, listen, you just gotta understand, I wasn't born with it. Just because I'm a pastor doesn't mean I'm not also stupid. I make some silly mistakes, and my wife tries to keep me on the rails, and take charge of all of my clothes. So when she sees something, she goes, this looks good. And throw that out. Generally, the throw that out are the things that I bought for myself, thinking they look good. And then my wife will buy a polo like this, she'll just wear that. Give me this. No, give me this. Wear this. People have been worried about clothing and image and perception. Do you know why? I know I made comical of it, but do you know why we worry about perception? Because deep down inside, people are worried about how they look in others' eyes. Why? Because we're looking for quality by comparison. That's why it's part of the human condition. We have always wanted to look to one another and rank each other based on which one is better on our own human scale. Instead of measuring ourselves against God, look at the fields and how they grow. They don't work or make clothing. Look at again how Jesus brings up that concept of work and provision. They don't work or they make clothing, yet Solomon in all his glory was not dressed as beautiful as they are. Stop. Who is Jesus' primary audience in this passage? Agrarian farmers, but what is their race? They're Jews, right? So now when Jesus uses a word like Solomon to talk to a first century Jew, let's talk about the context of what he's saying there. Who is King Solomon? We spoke about him a few weeks ago. You better remember anything about King Solomon. He was very rich. He was also the wisest man to ever live. He's also the richest Jew who ever lived. He's the richest Jew who ever lived. And a first century Jew would know that. When Jesus mentions the clothing of Solomon, he is mentioning the most luxurious person who has ever lived in the history of their nation. He's picking the creme de la creme. He's saying, listen, Nelson, you want to compare yourself to your friends? I'm going to compare you to the most well-dressed individual on the planet. I can't even think of who's probably the best-looking, most well-dressed actor in Hollywood. We could probably have a huge argument over that. Yeah, I don't know. When you think of a super well-dressed actor, who do you think of? You think of Iron Man. That's a character. OK, Robert Downey Jr. Steve Harvey. I tell you what, Steve Harvey's got some serious clothing in his budget. He rocks some cufflinks like nobody else does business. You know who else? George Clooney. Thank you. I was thinking Ocean's Eleven, and all I could think was Daniel Ocean. George Clooney. Brad Pitt. You know, I mean just, their clothing budget is probably more than my annual salary. Like, just so well-dressed, so sharp-looking all the time. Number one, because their job requires them to what? Be in the outward eye all the time. Well, think about those people. That's the Solomon of our day. Jesus chose an individual who stood head and shoulders above everyone else when it came to their outward dress and appearance. And he's saying to his audience, to his first century Jewish farming audience, look at the field, the flowers that grow out there in the field. They don't work. They don't make their own clothes. Yet they are more beautiful than Brad Pitt, George Clooney, and Robert Downey Jr. all rolled up into one with a side of fries. And if God cares so wonderfully for the wild flowers that are here today and thrown in the fire tomorrow, he's talking about the scorching heat of the sun withering up the flower, He will certainly care for you. Again, Jesus' solution to the vampire of worry comes back to how you see yourself in relation to God. How you see your priority in God's eyes directly affects how you see your perception in the eyes of others. Let's take a look at your next blank this morning. Worry is directly related to faith. Worry is directly related to faith. Worry is directly related to faith. Let's look at the back half of verse 30 and then verse 31. Why do you have so little faith? Stop. Why do you have so little faith? Why do you have so little faith? Jesus has just finished out pointing two of the largest areas of worry in the human condition. We worry about our provision, we worry about our perception, the way we look to others, and then Jesus goes, why do you have so little faith? There is a direct causal relationship between the amount of worry that you have in your life and the amount of faith that you have in your life. The more the worry goes up, the more faith goes down. Notice that Jesus' question is not, why do you have no faith? He did not say that. I want to really make a point of pointing that out. Jesus did not say, so why don't you have any faith? Why do you have no faith? Just what he said is, why do you have little faith? I think there is a huge difference there in saying that someone has no faith whatsoever and someone has little faith. Sometimes faith needs to be grown. It needs to be developed. Sometimes we grow in our faith and then we slide back in our faith. I think by Jesus illustrating the little faith as opposed to the no faith, he is showing that almost seesaw-like relationship. As the presence of worry goes up, the effectiveness of faith comes down. Now the reality is the reverse of that is also true. We will get to that in a minute. So don't worry about these things. Look what he says, what will we eat, what will we drink? That is both direct provision, especially for an agrarian farmer. If you were farming wheat, wheat was the cash crop of ancient Mesopotamia. If you were farming wheat, yeah, Miss Diane, you probably kept some at home to make your bread. But what did you do with the rest of it? Sold it, traded it. For what? For animals, for drink, for clothing? You would take the one thing that you made and you would trade it and sell it in order to get the other things that you needed. So even living off of a first century agrarian economy, Jonathan, you're only growing one thing for your family. Now let's say you're the shepherd. You are raising flock. Okay, from that flock you could get wool. You may also be able to get milk which you could then make into cheese. But unless all you plan on doing is eating milk and cheese for the rest of your natural life, somebody's got to make some tacos. That's all I'm saying. You're going to have to trade and sell either the animal, the meat, or the wool in order to get these other things. Jesus is saying, so why are we worrying about what we will eat, what we will drink, or what? What am I going to wear? Does this make me look fat? Why do we worry about these three things? The simple answer is because of our little faith. Jesus is making a direct causal relationship between worrying about your provision, which is also your income, your money from your job, worrying about your perception, the way other people see you, and how it's related to your faith. Jesus makes a clear connection here that we worry about provision and perception as the illustration of little faith. And growing in faith therefore illustrates little worry. It is a scale going both ways. The more we trust God, the worry may not go away, but sometimes it feels smaller. The more we trust God and the bigger God is in our life, whoop! There's an ambulance company right there. Nico, do me a favor. Extend the antenna on that microphone. See if it helps. There was one morning I was setting up the sound system, and no joke, the antenna was touching something else, and I started picking up the radio chatter from across the parking lot. Thankfully it was very, very PG rated, because I was like, whoo! Turn that off! All right, we'll see if that makes it better. Jesus creates a causal relationship between the presence of worry and the presence of faith. Here's your fifth and final blank this morning. We defeat worry by trusting God. We defeat worry by trusting God. We defeat worry by trusting God. Let's look at the final verses of our reading this morning, 32 through 35. These things dominate the thoughts of unbelievers. Stop. What things? What has Jesus been talking about? The presence of worry, worrying about your provision, worrying about your perception or the opinion that others have of you. These are the types of things that dominate the thoughts of unbelievers. Melissa, not just they think about some time, not just now and then I might think about it. Jesus is saying, no, that sort of worry that consumes you about worrying about provision, worrying about what others think about you, what you're going to wear, what am I going to have, that is the type of thing that dominates the thoughts of unbelievers. But your heavenly father already knows your needs. Look at the juxtaposition there. Jonathan, on one hand, unbelievers focus on worry, but believers focus on God. He's creating this dichotomy here. Believers worry, nonbelievers don't. Then what's the next thing he says? He gives you what I call the two-step recipe for defeating worry. First, seek the kingdom of God above all else. Doesn't that sound like where we started in point one, priority? You can only have one priority one. You can only have one first thing. What's first in your life? People always ask me, what's first? Is it God, the family, the church, is it work, is it the guitar lessons? You can only have one first. And when all the chips are down and all the cards are out, Melissa, there's still only one priority. Seek first the kingdom of God above all else. Second, live righteously. Now what does it mean to live righteously? Again, I go back to who is Jesus' audience? Jesus is speaking to first century agrarian Jews. What is their understanding of living righteously? The law. Absolutely right. What is the first century agrarian Jewish understanding? That is the first century Jewish understanding of live righteously. Live according to the word of God. They had the whole Old Testament written down. There were all these really nice little scrolls. Not nearly as compact as our Bibles are today. But when you understand Jesus' audience, now that verse makes a lot more sense. Let me rephrase it for you. Seek the kingdom of God above all else and live according to his word. And he will give you everything you need. Doesn't that make a whole lot more sense? Sometimes we can say, oh well what does live righteously mean to me? No, you would be wrong. When we study the Bible, the very first thing we do is we ask ourselves, what did it mean to them? What was Jesus saying to his original audience? Jonathan, make God priority. One, live according to God's word. That is your two-step recipe. I believe I even called it the two-step vampire killer on your Friday's five-minute moment. The two-step killer for worry in your life is simple. Make God priority. One, live according to God's word. Now that's a whole lot easier said than done. I admit that. There are times in my life where my faith is tested beyond my comfortability level. Does that mean that I am wrong? Does that mean that God is wrong? Does that merely mean God has brought me to a place where I get to be stretched? And stretch doesn't always mean bad. I hate the fact that people go, oh if you have any struggle or trial or question, in your faith, you don't have enough faith. I don't really think that's true. I have questions all the time. I have a mentor that I've had for 12 years. I still call him and ask questions. Because I admit, I don't have it all figured out. My mentor has been in ministry for 40 years. He has children and now grandchildren. Miss Glennon, he has life experience that I just don't have. Why would I be so arrogant to assume that I have it all figured out? And that I don't have anything else that I can learn? That just doesn't seem right. Nor does it seem humble, to be fair. When we accept the reality that you don't know it all, I don't know it all. Nobody knows it all. Except maybe Miss Lena, she knows a lot. When we realize that we don't know it all, take that pressure off. Don't expect perfection. Expect obedience. Don't expect to get it right every day, all day. Expect that you will make mistakes. In your mistakes, go back. What's our two steps? Number one, put God as priority one. Number two, what does God's word say about this situation in my life? I can tell you that two-step process, Mr. Dan, will never fail. As long as you go back to the basics. One, is God priority one in this situation? Now, there's a tough question. You could ask yourself that multiple times a day. Is God priority one right now? How do I validate, oh, God's always priority one. Okay, but is he priority one in what you're doing right now? Not just mentally, not just some metaphysical, esoteric idea. Oh, of course God's number one. Yeah, yeah, I'm good. No. In what you're doing right now, are you doing it as if God is priority one? Then if you are, are you living according to God's word? And he will give everything you want and desire. But that's not what the text says. What does it say? And he will give you everything you... Here's the super cool and yet also challenging part of this teaching. We don't get to decide what our needs are. It says, he, meaning God the Father. Remember, first century Jew, they know who God the Father is. They know God the Father is the creator. They know God the Father is going to send the Messiah. Mr. Dan, it's God who decides what our needs are, not us. I really, really, really need a brand new TV. I really, really, really need a brand new Xbox. I really, really, really need a brand new iPad. You notice there's a theme in all the things I need, right? They're all at Best Buy. I really, really need an unlimited Best Buy account. No, I really, really want. In order to truly be free from the vampire of worry, you have to be honest with yourself. What's in need and what's in want? And understand it's ultimately God who tells us that. It's God who decides because it's God who provides. So don't worry about tomorrow. For tomorrow will bring its own worries. Jesus is being very real. Fred, you got enough problems in your life, man. Don't worry about tomorrow. Let's just get through today. Why? Because is God priority one and am I living according to God's word? Those are in the moment questions. Those are am I doing it now? Not am I going to do it tomorrow? Not am I going to get on the bandwagon Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday? No, right now is God priority one? Am I living according to his word? For today's trouble is enough for today. Don't try to pick up tomorrow's worry when it's still today because we do. We'll start worrying about some four or five, seven day a month. I have an aunt, she worries about things like as soon as Christmas is over, she starts worrying about next Christmas. I'm like, oh, like I don't understand that. Maybe I'm last minute. Maybe I don't plan well. Maybe I'm not as concerned about Christmas as she is. But I don't start worrying about Christmas on December 26 for next year. Why? Because I still got to put the Christmas decorations down. I got enough to worry about today. I got New Year's coming. I got Valentine's Day. I got an anniversary and three birthdays between now and then. I got other things to deal with my time. How do we deal with the vampire of worry? I think Jesus gives a very simple two-step recipe. Number one, make God priority one. Put him first. That means everything. That means all of your decisions. That means all of your activities. That means all of your opinions, all of your understanding. Put God first. And that means if you and God have differing opinions, who's right? I just want to say that very clearly. It's okay to put God first as long as you disagree. No, no, no. That would be that moment when my wife goes, no, Bill, come back. No, no, honey. If you and God have differing opinions, God is right. And you are learning. When you put God first, he's always right. Number two, live according to his word. Do me a favor. Pull out your connection card. This time I want you to look at the back of it. Pull out your connection card. Pull out your connection card. This time I want to look at the back. The upper left-hand corner, it says, my next step today is, every week at C3, I want to challenge you to take a next step. Let's do something that turns this morning not just into a hopefully interesting and entertaining message, but something that encourages you to take a step forward in your faith. This week I will seek God's direction on his provision in my life. Maybe you've been stressing about money. Maybe you've been stressing about work. Do we trust that God will ultimately provide or do we not? That doesn't mean, and I want to say this, just because you trust God does not mean you do not also have to be a good steward. If you spend all of your money in the casino, don't complain to God when you can't pay the rent. You know what I mean? Doesn't mean God didn't provide. You took his provision and spent it elsewhere. So part of understanding God's provision is getting real with the stewardship. Number two, this week I will seek God's direction on the perception of my life. Here's a really interesting question. When you are out in your everyday life, before you say anything, do people know that you believe in God? Or do you have to undermine it as a statement? Do you have to wear a piece of jewelry so people recognize your faith? Or is your faith evident through your lifestyle? Is your perception pointing people to the God that we serve? Number three, this week I will address a worry in my life with the Word of God. Again, the second part of Jesus' recipe was live according to the Bible. That means you've got to know what it says. Don't make it up. Don't guess. Don't quote what you heard someone else say. Go to the source. Look it up for yourself. Out in the lobby we have several free books that we give away. One of them is called Know Your Bible. It tells you all about the different books of the Bible. One is How to Study Your Bible. If you've never been to a Bible study before, I invite you to come on Tuesday nights. It's all open discussion. Glenn and Doug, it's in their living room. It's a lot of fun. We go on whatever rabbit trail. We talk about whatever topic. It's not me up here talking at you for 30 minutes like it is this morning. It's very interactive and conversational. The section right underneath of that, it says, Send Me Info About. Here's the final kicker for this morning's message. If you do not have a relationship with God, nothing that I said this morning applies to you. Why? Because who was Jesus talking to? First century Jews who already had a relationship with God because of the law. We do not get access to God's supernatural power to overcome worry without first having a relationship with Him. So that's what I want to ask you this morning. I never want to assume just because people go to church that they actually understand what it means to be Christian. Being in a church does not a Christian make any more than being in a garage does a car make. Being a Christian is very simple. It's kind of this. I recognize I need God in my life because I'm a sinner. B, I recognize that Jesus forgave me of the very sin that I could not work or earn or pay my way out of. It doesn't have to be a super complex prayer. It doesn't have to be a five-fold theological statement. What I want to ask you today is, do you believe you have a relationship with the living God? If the answer is no, under Send Me Info About, all you have to do is fill in that little bubble that says, Beginning Life with Jesus. I am not going to invite you up here in front of the church. I am not going to embarrass you in any way. By filling in that bubble, you give me permission to follow up with you this week. Talk with you one-on-one. I'll buy you a coffee. I'll buy you a milkshake. I'll buy you a donut. I'll buy you a brownie. Do you notice the theme? I'll buy you anything that's got sugar in it. I'll buy you a diet soda if you need one. Anything that will get you to the table so we can talk. I believe discipleship should be done personally. Now, you may be here this morning and you made a decision to follow God at some point earlier in your life, but things get in the way. Life, economy, family, divorce, marriage, moving, relocating, new jobs. There's all kinds of things that get in the way of us making God priority one. If you find yourself in the situation today that you're not as close to God as you once were or want to be, that's what I call rededicating. I'm not asking you to get saved all over again. I'm just asking you to get serious about the faith that you claim to already have. And I want to help with that. I want to be a part of that. So if that's you, fill in that bubble. How to grow spiritually. If you're a Christian and you don't have a plan for growing, you're not growing. Just say that. You don't have a plan for how you're maturing in your faith. You're not maturing. You stopped whenever you stopped having a plan. I love helping people make a plan. Again, we'll get a coffee. We'll get a donut, a milkshake, cake, pie, ice cream, whatever. We'll do it. Church membership, key giving, I would like to speak with the pastor about. Maybe there's something in your life you want to talk about and you don't want to raise your hand and you don't want to come up in front of the church and you don't want to get embarrassed. That's fine. Just write it on the card.