In the English language, it is completely acceptable to say, I love my wife. I love my mom. I love hot dogs. Except, Miss Anne, I'm sure everyone would realize, hopefully you don't love your wife and your mom the way you love hot dogs. Right? That can be a marital counseling conversation for another day. Alright? No problem with that. But when we talk about the word love, and I'm going to have a problem with the peanut gallery here in the front row. I'm just letting you know that. What's up, dog? Letting you know that right now. The word love is very often misunderstood. Now, if you have your Bibles, please turn with me to the book of 1 Corinthians. We're not going to quite go there yet, but we will be there. I want to go ahead and... I've got kind of a longer intro this morning than normal, because I really want to set the stage. So if you'll go ahead and turn to the book of 1 Corinthians in your Bible, that's right after Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and the Romans, 1 Corinthians. So it's right after the book of Romans, which is right after the book of Acts, 1 Corinthians. I want to sort of give you a little background to what we're about to read, and then we'll get into it. The book of 1 Corinthians is called that because it is the first of two letters that the Apostle Paul writes to the Christian church at Corinth in the 1st century. The reason they're called Corinthians is because they live in Corinth. Same thing we do today. We call people from New York crazy. No, New York crazy, but goofy. They're called Corinthians because they live in the 1st century city of Corinth. So before we read the text this morning, allow me to paint a picture of what the 1st century city of Corinth looks like. Because Julie, I know we've talked about this. A lot of times you can have those Bible-colored glasses on, and everything looks perfect. Let me tell you what the 1st century city of Corinth was like. Corinth was a very busy and wealthy city. Doug, because of its geographic location, it was the center of an ith smith. Now if you don't know what an ith smith is, it's a strip of land that is very thin and surrounded by water. If Florida was connected to Cuba, Florida would be an ith smith. Why is that important? Because you control all the trade routes from the north and the south. And in fact, the ith smith that Corinth sat on was so thin that rather than sailing around the peninsula, Dan, they would actually have services where they would pick your boat up, carry it across land on rolling logs, and put it in the other body of water so you could continue delivering your goods. Corinth was a hot to trot, wealthy town located in the perfect location for ports of trade, for land-based and water-based commerce. Corinth was also the site of the ith smith games, which is the 2nd most popular sporting event in the ancient world. Only eclipsed by the Olympic Games. I'm sure you may have heard of those. The Olympic Games is played every 4 years. The ith smith games is played every 2 years. So every other year, Judy, people are coming to the city of Corinth, they're spending money, and they're marveling at the athletic feats that went on during the ith smith games. Because of its geographic location, because of its power in commerce, because of its wealth, Corinth was a very immoral city. Corinth was a very wicked city. In fact, in Hellenistic Greek, which is the Greek that was spoken in the 1st century, in Hellenistic Greek, there is a verb called Corinthia Zomai. Hellenistic Greek, there is a word called Corinthia Zomai, and it literally means to practice fornication. The name of the city was a verb for wicked. That's how wicked the city of Corinth was. One more for you. There was a slang term in Ancient Greek. If you were to call somebody a Corinthian girl, it's a slang term for a hooker. Working girl, we might say today. A Corinthian girl was a prostitute. Just wrap your brain around that. That is the city in which all of what we're going to read today takes place. The city of Corinth was known for business, money, and sex. They were so preoccupied with self-promotion and pleasure that this influenced their understanding of love and the church. Like the Corinthians of old, the term love in our culture today has become a little warped and a little misunderstood. Like the Corinthians of old, many of our cultural ideas of what love is have been bent towards the wicked and the immoral. And like the Corinthians of old, the love we see evidenced in a lot of churches today is probably not where it should be. That is the stage for which I want us to springboard into this question, what is love? Now, over the next few weeks, we are going to focus on this question and we are going to examine 1 Corinthians chapter 13. Some of you may be familiar with that. It's called the love chapter because the entire chapter 13 focuses on answering the question, what is love? Now, with that as my intro, I want you to take a look at the back of your bulletin. I'm going to go ahead and walk you through some of these blanks. So here's your first blank this morning. Do everything with love. Do everything with love. That's actually what that verse says. It's not only the blank. I don't even have to put the blank and then the verse. Fred, it's the same thing. Do everything with love. Now remember, we're in the incredibly immoral, wealthy, first century city of Corinth, but the letter of 1 Corinthians was written to the Christians who lived in this town. Much like if the Apostle Paul were alive today, Mr. Judy, he could write us a letter to the church of C3 and it would be to us. So keep in mind as we examine the text this morning, this is not being written to the immoral people and the Corinthian working girls who sleep in on Sunday morning. This is written to the church. This is written to Christians who live in this immoral time, in this immoral city. And in 1 Corinthians 16, 14, Paul says, do everything with love. Now, I need to give you a slight bit of an edumacation as we move, that's a technical term by the way, as we move forward, you'll see in your notes here there are four kinds of love that exist in ancient Greek. There are four different words which we translate to the word love today, and I want to review them because this will help us understand what is Paul saying in 1 Corinthians 13. The first four that you see here is called Phileo, which is brotherly love. Anybody may have heard of the city of Philadelphia? The city of Philadelphia is the city of brotherly love because it gets its root from the word phileo. The word eros or eros is, as I was educated this morning, the children of the goddess of Aphrodite. Eros is a sexual love. It primarily means physical love, but as an attachment to that it can also indicate romantic love, as in the idea that romantic love generally leads to physical love. Eros is where we get what English word today? Erotic. Erotic, eroticism, every form of the word erotic comes from that Greek word eros. The third type of love that existed in ancient Greek is agape, and you probably heard a lot of Christian talkers talk about the word agape. It literally means sacrificial love. In a much larger context, Doug, we could say it is the intentional and willful sacrificing for an object of love, but I'm going to abbreviate that just to sacrificial love. There is actually a fourth word for love in ancient Greek. This word does not appear in the New Testament text, although it is alluded to a few times, and that is storge, and it is a familial love. It's the way I love my mama. It's the way I love my child. The way I love my cousins, my auntie, and my little doggy. That's a familial or a friendship type of love. When we study the Bible, I'm sure you can clearly see here, knowing which one of these words is used in a text becomes vitally important to understanding the message that the Apostle Paul was trying to teach. Because if he says, do everything in love, and I leave it up to you to pick which one of those, we could have some wildly different interpretations of what do everything in love meant. If you did everything in brotherly love, then your relationship with your spouse would be wanting. If you did everything in eros type love, you will start a prison ministry. If you did everything with a sacrificial type of love, you would be a great example. But again, there are times in life where the familial love, the sexual love, and brotherly love are all required for proper relationship. So in order to qualify and quantify and answer the question, what is love, throughout this series, I will want to make sure we are understanding which word we're talking about. Because Julie, all four of these words will be translated love in your Bible. But as you can see, there's a pretty big contextual difference if we look in the ancient Greek at what was written. So with this in mind, and hopefully you've written it down in your notes so you can refer to it, please turn with me to 1 Corinthians 13. This is where we're going to start the meat of what we're going to talk about this morning. 1 Corinthians 13, we're going to read verses 1 through 3, and I have it for you here on the screen in the New Living Translation. So 1 Corinthians 13, the first three verses. This is the apostle Paul speaking. This is what it says. If I could speak all the languages of earth and of angels, but didn't love others, I would only be a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. If I had the gift of prophecy, if I understood all of God's secret plans and possessed all knowledge, if I had such faith that I could move mountains, but didn't love others, I would be nothing. If I gave everything I have to the poor and even sacrificed my body, I could boast about it, but if I didn't love others, I would have gained nothing. This is our key text for this morning, and we're going to go through and really we're going to unpack each one of these verses. So let's take a look at your second blank, and then we'll get into this and we'll start. Your second blank this morning, love is more than words. Love is more than words. Abby, let's take a look at just the first verse of that section. This is how apostle Paul opens this chapter, famous chapter. If I could speak all the languages, stop. Dan, if I could speak all the languages. The apostle Paul is not just saying that love is more than words, Fred, he's saying love is more than any of all the words that have ever been made. He's not just saying, as we illustrated here, communicating love in English is a little less direct, a little less specific than ancient Greek. It could also be a little less specific than other modern languages we have today. But the apostle is saying, if I could speak every single language that has ever existed on planet Earth or in heaven with the angels, if I could speak every one of those languages of Julie, I knew every word that has ever been uttered, it still is not enough because love must be more than words. Now we use words a lot to communicate love. Today's Valentine's Day. Gentlemen, make sure you buy your wife some flowers and a card and some chocolates. She's diabetic, sugar free is okay. We use words to communicate the feelings of love. If you were old school, you may remember writing a love letter and, you know, spritzing it with some perfume and drawing on the envelope. Now I'm going really, really old school. Sealing it with wax and a ring. You know, you may have been that old school. Some of us were around back then, possibly. Papyrus. Papyrus, right. Yeah, you wrote your love letter on papyri. That's awesome. After you pounded it out, yeah. The newer version, maybe you send an I love you email. My mother-in-law is famous. What is jib jab? Thank you. My mother-in-law, she sends a jib jab for like every holiday known to men. So for Halloween, there's always a jib jab of my wife and myself and both of our kids. I think last Halloween it was Thriller, which was really funny because the way the jib jab cartoon works, my four-year-old daughter was taller than me. So here's Emmy going, and I was like this short little thing. So we can find ways to communicate love through words, through electronic. You can send a text message. You can send an email. You can do a lot of different things. But Miss Diane, at the end of the day, those words aren't really love. They're only speaking about love. Now I talk a lot. I talk a lot. That's probably why I'm good at this job, I'll just admit. I talk a lot. I'm a rather verbose individual. And so I can use some very flowery and flagrant language to describe the way I feel about my wife. But Miss Anne, no matter what words I could choose, if that's all they were, they would never be enough. You ever heard the phrase, stop telling me and show me? Love cannot be just words. Look at how he ends this verse. I would only be a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. International Bill translation. Words without love are annoying loud sounds. Because Miss Anne, as I'm sure you know, if all they were were empty words, they would be irritating. They would be annoying. Because you would know as you're listening to this, even if it was this beautifully well spelled out Shakespearean sonnet, if there's no real love behind it, it's, I mean, my parents used to say, that's just lip service. Stop telling me about it and show me. You know, get back on the horse and do it. Love must be more than words. Here's your next blank this morning. Love is more than gifts. Now we're stepping on my love language here. This is tough, but it's true. Love is more than gifts. Let's look at verse two from our chapter. Verse two. If I had the gift of prophecy, stop. If you were to read all of 1 and 2 Corinthians, what you would discover is the church of Corinth had a problem managing the love of God. The church of Corinth had a problem managing the gifts that the Holy Spirit was bestowing on the church. So let me give you the basic historical background. Jesus shows up. We have the four gospels. We have the New Testament. Jesus dies on the cross. He is resurrected. He walks on the earth for 40 days after Easter. And then at the ascension, he leaves planet earth and he goes back to heaven. But before he does, he says, what? Hey, guys, don't go anywhere yet. Go to Jerusalem. I've got a present for you. I've got a gift. So they're in the upper room. Jerusalem. Now we're in the beginning of the book of Acts. The Holy Spirit descends on the church and empowers the church with what we now know are supernatural gifts. If you were to read all of the Corinthians, what you would discover is they had a massive problem dealing with the gifts. They wanted to celebrate the gifts, but not honor the one who gave the gifts. And so Paul is trying to address a huge problem that they have in other parts of his letters by saying, listen, if I had the gift of prophecy, if I understood all of God's secret plans and possessed all knowledge, if I had such faith that I could move mountains. Talking about multiple gifts here, the gift of prophecy, the gift of wisdom, the gift of knowledge, the gift of faith. And he's saying if I had all of that, but I didn't love others, I would be nothing. Now, the word of both in the last verse and this verse is the agape kind of love, the sacrificial, willful, intentional, sacrificial love. Now, he is speaking directly about the Holy Spirit's gifts. But I could analogize it in this way and I could say, Kevin, no matter how many gifts you buy your wife, if you don't love them, if you don't love her, the gifts still end up being empty. That doesn't mean she may not super love getting gifts. That doesn't mean she may not super love the cute little blue box from Tiffany's. But after a while, gifts without the true love behind them, they have no real value. They have no real meaning because gifts are merely supposed to be a way we communicate love. Now, if you remember the five love languages, giving gifts is one of the five love languages that Dr. Chapman opens in his book. It happens to be my primary love language. I super love shopping for stuff. I don't care if I'm going to buy stuff for my wife. I don't care if I'm buying stuff for me. I just super love to buy, buy, buy, buy, buy. That's why my wife is in charge of the checkbook. Because I would just be like, yes, yes, get home and I'm in trouble. That's why my wife is in charge. But Jill, no matter how much I buy for my wife, and I'm sure at the very beginning, being real spend happy would be impressive. Being real spend happy in a relationship would even maybe endear you a little bit. But Jill, don't you think it would get old if all the relationship ever was was money? If all it ever was was stuff and there was no substance? There was no intellectual discourse? There was no emotional discourse? There was no physical love, no holding hands, no hugs, no kisses? I bought you something, honey. Leave me alone. That would get real old real fast. Because at the end of the day, love cannot be quantified as only gifts. Love can, just like words, gifts can communicate love. But they must, the love must transcend with the gift or it's meaningless. Here's your next blank. Let's take a look at verse three. Love is more than sacrifice. Love is more than sacrifice. Here's verse three. If I gave everything I have to the poor, stop. Wouldn't you say if you knew someone who did that, that you would have to give them a certain amount of respect? Nelson, there's a certain amount of selflessness involved in that level of self-sacrifice. Not just I gave something, but I gave everything. I gave everything to the poor. That would earn a certain amount of respect in my eyes. It would earn a certain amount of respect. What if they only did it to receive praise from other people? Miss Judy, I think it would quickly turn sour. Oh, no, you just did that because you were really getting something out of it. You weren't helping other people. You were doing something for yourself. Now look at what's next. Even if you didn't do anything for yourself, you were doing something for yourself. Now look at what's next. Even if I sacrificed my body, I could boast about it. But if I didn't love others, I would have gained nothing. I would argue that sacrifice is one of the most intimate forms of love that one can communicate. Because that means, Kevin, I want to love you enough that I will forego something that I want. I want to love you enough that I will endure something, whether it's physical pain, whether it's the loss of finances. I will endure distance from my family so we can move closer to yours. Whatever that sacrifice happens to be, I think definitely it communicates love in a very real, in a very powerful way. But if it's only done for selfish reasons, it quickly turns sour and becomes more about you than about the object of the person that you claim to love. If I gave everything I have to the poor and even sacrificed my own body, I could boast about it. You know what, Lynette, I still did something you didn't do. I still sacrificed more than you did. But if you don't love the people that you're sacrificing for, it becomes pretty sour pretty fast. And Paul's pretty clear, Julie, it's just not going to have any value. You'll have gained nothing by making these sacrifices for no real benefit. Now what's interesting about, even if I sacrificed my body, understanding the history of the city of Corinth, what you have to understand is in the first century there were such things called temple prostitutes. And you would go to the temple of whatever idol happened to be in that city, and you would pay an offering, and you would physically have sex with a prostitute in the temple, and that was considered part of worship. And a lot of times, young ladies were sold into that life, sold into that job. It was legal and religious human trafficking. So when we talk about even if I sacrificed my body, he could be alluding to slavery, even if I'm sold into slavery, because Paul talked about slavery in his other letters, or he could be referring to the temple prostitute culture that existed in the first century. I would have gained nothing. You went through all that sacrifice, you went through whatever it was that you endured, but you gained nothing because you didn't do it out of a heart of love. Now I've given you three things that love is not. Love is more than words, love is more than gifts, love is more than sacrifice. Now I want to show you what I believe love is. Here's your last blank. God's love is our example to live by. God's love is our example. Now I realize for the majority of this series we're going to be sticking in 1 Corinthians, but I've got a much better verse to illustrate what I'm trying to say. So turn with me to the Gospel of John, 4th book of the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. Chapter 3, verses 16 and 17. This verse may be familiar to some of you. It's a very popular verse in our culture. John chapter 3, verses 16 and 17, this is the New International Version. For God so loved, stop. What word are we looking at here? This is again that agape form of love. Willful, intentional, sacrificial love. For God so loved the world that he gave. His one and only Son. For God so loved the world that he gave. His one and only Son. That whoever believes in him, the Son, shall not perish but have eternal life. Now that verse is pretty popular. Here's the one that comes after it. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. As believers, as Christians, Fred, I believe our charge and our responsibility is to exemplify the same form of love that God did. In this verse, what we see, God so loved the world that he gave. God's love is more than words. His one and only Son, God's love is more than gifts. Whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. God's love is more than sacrifice. Because, for God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. In order for us to faithfully live out the kind of love that is exemplified in the Bible, Judy, we must accept that we have to love people the way God loved us. Scripture says God loved us so much that while we were yet sinners, he still sent Jesus to die. While I was still yet a sinner and undeserving of God's love, and completely in rebellion to God's plan for my life, he loved me enough to be more than words, more than gifts, more than sacrifice, and still provide a way for me to have eternal life. Why is God's love the most all-encompassing form of love? For one simple fact. God's love is the only love that transcends this life. Dan, God's love is the only love that exists after this life passes away. I loved my mother. I lost her when I was a child. I love my wife. Eventually, Nellie and I will get older. God's love transcends this life because he has already planned for us to experience his love in the next life. That is why, above all else, God's love should be our example. And Sean, if we're being honest, this should probably be our guide. We should love people in our life the way God loved us, which means more than words, more than gifts, more than sacrifice. Our love for others should point them to him. What does it gain if you love somebody who only loves you? What does it gain if you get something for people that you give it to? Our challenge as believers, our challenge as Christians, is to be able to love a world that does not love God, that most of the time does not love us, but loves them enough that they go, Kevin, something about you is different. Can we go get a milkshake? Can we talk? I don't understand. People are so vile. People are so angry. People are so bitter. People are so hurt. And yet, I see you and Lena, and you seem to be just so loving. And even in the midst of all of this stuff going on, you have something, and I'd really like to find out more about that. That is the best conversation you can have. You know why? Because Nelson and I have said this a ton of times, you can't argue somebody into faith. You can't argue somebody. You can't start pulling out, and I love apologetics, don't get me wrong, but you can't start pulling out the defense of why Jesus lived, the defense of why the Bible is the Word of God. I can teach you every one of those arrows, and Chris, I can teach you to hit the mark every time. But at the end of the day, you can't argue someone into faith. You have to lead them to a decision point and introduce them to a God who loves them enough that they choose to take a step. That is the kind of love that we, as believers, should indemnify. We should exemplify. Is, Dan, do we love enough that we draw people to God? I love John 3, 16, but without 17, you miss one huge point. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world. God's love was intentional. It was willful. It was sacrificial. It is the very definition of agape-style love. Willful, intentional, sacrificial love, to get to a point. So that we will be able to experience his love past this life on this earth. So if I open this series of what is love this morning, that is love. That is love. A love that transcends beyond what I have done wrong. A love that transcends beyond my personal failures. A love that transcends beyond my sin, my guilt, my culpability in the fall. I am still a fallen human being. And yet I have experienced a love that said, Dan, no matter what, irregardless of why, irregardless of who, I love you enough. Let's wipe that slate clean. That is the kind of love that the Bible talks about. And for the rest of the series, as we unpack this chapter 13, Jill, there is some ooey, gooey, nutty goodness about the kind of love. Bring a Snickers bar. It's worth it. Some ooey, gooey, nutty, Kit-Kat-y Snickers-based goodness. This is the kind of love that people think the church should have. And you know what, honestly, that's the kind of love that makes the church do its job correctly. I saw a Facebook meme the other day when I was delivering cabinets with Dan. We were talking about it. And it said, the liberal church, Nelson, the liberal church says, we love you. You don't have to change your life. The legalistic church says, no, we love you, and you're welcome here. You don't have to change your life. The legalistic church says, we love you. You're welcome here as soon as you change your life. And Jesus says, I love you. I'll help you change your life. That is the type of love that we as Christians are called to live out and exemplify. Because if you are going to call yourself a Christian, by definition, you're wearing the name of Jesus. Chris, we're putting it on as a mantle every day when we get up, when we get dressed, and we go to work, and you deal with your clients, and you talk to your customers. Nelson, when you have somebody in your chair, that is the kind of love that we are called to exemplify as children of God. It is intentional. It is willful. It is sacrificial. Because this is the only love that will transcend this life.