For the next few weeks together, we'll be taking a walk through the parables of Jesus. Jesus often used parables to teach his audience. And the first thing you have to know about listening to a parable is you got to ask yourself, well, who's he teaching to? Because the parables have lots of different audiences. For instance, a sermon on the mount was taught outside, on an elevated grassy hill with a majority blue collar audience. Yet when he opened the scroll of Isaiah in the synagogue and said, this is filled today in your hearing, well, he's inside a Jewish synagogue surrounded by teachers and priests and Levites. So who Jesus is speaking to has an awful lot to do with how we understand what he says. So this morning I would like us, if you brought your Bibles with you, whether they're physical or digital, turn or click with me to the Gospel of Luke. The Gospel of Luke. It's the third book in the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, to chapter 10. I'd like to talk with you this morning about the parable of the Good Samaritan. The parable of the Good Samaritan. Now this is a pretty popular parable. If you've been in church or you've been around church or almost, the Good Samaritan has almost made it into our, sort of our national cultural identity. We've heard the term, we even have things called Good Samaritan laws that are laws for people who help people. We're going to be in Luke chapter 10. I'm going to read from verse 25 to verse 37. So this is Luke chapter 10, verse 25 through to verse 37. And I'm reading it in the New Living translation. So Luke 10, 25 to 37. In the New Living, this is what it sounds like. One day an expert in religious law stood up to test Jesus by asking him this question. Teacher, what should I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus replied, what does the law of Moses say? How do you read it? The man answered, you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, all your strength, and all your mind. And love your neighbor as yourself. Right, Jesus told him, do this and you will live. The man wanted to justify his actions, so he asked Jesus, and who is my neighbor? Jesus replied with a story. A Jewish man was traveling from Jerusalem down to Jericho, and he was attacked by bandits. They stripped him of his clothes, beat him, and left him half dead beside the road. By chance, a priest came along, but when he saw the man lying there, he crossed on the other side of the road and passed him by. A temple assistant walked over and looked at him lying there, but he also passed by on the other side. Then a despised Samaritan came along, and when he saw the man, he felt compassion for him. Going over to him, the Samaritan soothed his wounds with olive oil and wine and bandaged them. Then he put the man on his own donkey and took him to an inn where he took care of him. The next day, he handed the innkeeper two silver coins, telling him, take care of this man. If the bill runs higher than this, I'll pay you the next time I'm here. Now which of these three would you say was a neighbor to the man who was attacked by bandits? The man replied, the one who showed him mercy. Then Jesus said, yes, now go and do the same. One of the probably most beloved, most well-known parables of Jesus, the parable of the Good Samaritan. What I would like to do, and normally the way I like to teach is, I would like to just sort of break this down and go back through and examine the text. I'm a firm believer that it's the word of God that changes lives, not the word of man. And so I will try to do my best every week to do the least amount of editorialization as possible. But I do want to give you some of the details that may help this passage to be a little bit clearer. So let's go back to the beginning. Let's go all the way back to the beginning. The first few words of verse 25. One day an expert. Your translation may also read lawyer or scholar, depending on which translation you're reading. Expert or lawyer or scholar. The thing I want you to understand about this man is, this is a man who is most likely a scribe who was trained in the Mosaic law. This is not a man who is unfamiliar with Scripture, as we'll see in a minute. Jesus asked him a question and he answered it correctly. So he is familiar with the Scripture. But I just love the way the New Living calls this man an expert. And you're going to hear me say this word expert several times this morning. And I would like to play a little game with you. Every time I say the word expert, this is what I want you to do. Okay? So let's try it. Ready? Everybody get your hands ready. I'm going to say it. Expert. Okay? In your head, I want you to go, he's in. Because what I think is hilarious about this story is here we have an expert in the Jewish law who gets schooled by Jesus. Absolutely. Because he's not really an expert as much as he thinks he is. So there's your test. All morning long, I'm going to say the word expert. I want you to do the air quotes because I want you to see, I want you to understand the man who's hearing this parable. The parable of the Good Samaritan is unique in the sense that it's not taught to a whole group of people. Pete is talking to one guy. One guy. This entire parable is between Jesus and one gentleman. One gentleman. He's an expert in the law. He was a scribe, most likely trained in and more often taught the Mosaic law to other Jews. And he's the one that opens the conversation. Jesus is just mulling along his average day. One day an expert in the religious law stood up to test Jesus and he asked him a simple question. So the expert is now asking the Savior, what should I do to inherit eternal life? And then Jesus turns the question right back at him. Don, I'm not going to answer your question. I'm going to turn it right back at you. Well, what do you say the law of Moses says? Now, if he really is an expert, you would think he would know the right answer. And Miss Ilona, he does. He answers two things. When Jesus asks the expert, what the law of Moses says, you're going to get tired, I'm going to wear you out. We're going to be ready for lunch by the time church is over. He replies with two things. First, he says, you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, with all your mind. A direct quote of Deuteronomy, chapter 6, verse 5. So he answers the Lord's question very clearly and very succinctly. He answers, you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, with all your mind, which is Deuteronomy 6, 5. And then the second statement, love your neighbor as yourself. Leviticus 19, verse 18. So both of his answers, Miss Ilona, are scripture. He's, this is interesting, he is quoting back to the Son of God, God's own word. But what it establishes is he knows his Bible. The so-called expert is correct when he answers Jesus' question. Jesus says, what does the law of Moses say? And this gentleman, so you thought I was going to say expert. He gets it right. The expert is at least accurate in his answer. Interestingly enough, if you were to turn to Mark chapter 12, verses 28 to 31, when Jesus is answered, asked the same question, Jesus gives the same answer as the expert. So I want to, clearly as we go into this passage, our audience is a single individual. He is a scribe, a quote expert of the Jewish law, and he gets the answer correct. The second thing I want you to see is our so-called expert couldn't just be right. He couldn't stop at just answering the question right. Look at verse 28. Jesus says, you're right. You've answered correctly. Go do that and you're fine. But he goes, no, no, no. This man wanted to justify his actions. So then he asked, who is my neighbor? Trish, if he hadn't asked the question, if there wasn't a motivation behind, well, who is my neighbor? We would not have gotten the parable of the Good Samaritan. So the motivation of the expert leads to the parable. Now that word justify, this is a very big word. A lot of times, I don't know about you, but who else keeps cookies in their pantry? Because I know whose house I'm visiting first. That's right. I find it very, very disturbing any time a package of cookies is put back in the pantry with less than five cookies in it. Because to me, it just feels like nobody likes a quitter. Just finish the cookies. So I have a hard problem and I have to justify to my wife and kids why you should just power through. Nobody likes a job half done. Instead of having three cookies, have six and get it done. And sometimes I feel like I have to justify why I think six and seven cookies should be a serving instead of three. That's not the kind of just, it's okay. It's okay to laugh in church. It's okay to realize these are real people who had real feelings and real motivations. And there are some very humorous moments in scripture when we look at it. But the kind of justifying that I do when I explain to my wife that six and seven cookies should absolutely be a serving is not the kind of justifying that this expert did. Does anybody know who wrote the Gospel of Luke? It's okay to, anybody? Correct, it's written by Luke, offered by God. Do you know what is unique about Luke as far as all the other biblical writers? He's the only Gentile. Of all of the known writers of scripture, Luke is the only Gentile. You know what's also interesting about Luke? Luke is a traveling companion of the Apostle Paul. In the book of Acts chapter 16 verse 10, we read, we traveled to Macedonia. Luke traveled directly with Paul. And the reason that's important is when I look it up in the original language, this word justify, and he tried to justify his actions, Luke here uses the same exact word for justify that the Apostle Paul uses in Romans chapter 3 verses 23 and 24 when he says, for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, and we are all justified, freely by his grace through the redemption that came from Jesus Christ. The type of justification that our expert friend was trying to do was not the kind of justifying when I justify why I should eat more cookies. He is talking about righteousness. He is talking about justification as holy before God. And I can see that because it's the same word that Paul uses when we talk about justification before God. So before I even get into the parable, you have to sort of see the background on which the parable is laid. Our scholar friend here, our expert friend here, is trying to make himself holy before God by asking the question, well, who is my neighbor? We have a word for that in our modern English. It's called self-righteousness. We try to make ourselves holier than thou. Now I have to explain to you how he does this for you to really get the picture. Our expert friend is convinced he knows God's law. So much so that he is capable in and of himself to live it in such a way that he is holy before God by his own actions. And you know how he does it? This is what they do. Michelle, the scriptures say love your neighbor. But I'm going to reinterpret who my neighbor is. And when I narrow the scope to my neighbor is only my wife and kids and family, well, it's easy to love them as I love myself, isn't it? If I'm in control of who my neighbor is, then I get to narrow the focus. I can narrow the scope of who scripture calls me to love. And in doing so, I'm in control of my own righteousness. I get to make myself holy because I'm going to choose who that word neighbor applies to. Now that is the attitude of the Pharisees in the first century. They are narrowing the focus of God's word so that they put themselves in control of their own holiness. And that is why our expert friend asks the question, Well, who is my neighbor? Because he's convinced. He's redefined that scripture for himself. He's redefined that word. And if my neighbor is only the four people that I actually like, well, then it's easy to love my neighbor as myself. And I'll therefore be holy and righteous before God. Jesus obviously didn't see it that way. When you understand that this parable is taught to one individual who's overcome with self-righteousness and is trying to make himself holy before God, now you're going to get the picture. The parable of the Good Samaritan has nothing to do with servanthood. It's about self-righteousness. But if you just jumped into the story without rewinding a couple of verses and look at who's talking to Jesus and what is he asking and what's going on, don't get me wrong, the parable of the Good Samaritan is a fantastic portrait of godly servanthood. It absolutely is. But that portrait is stacked on top of the real purpose of why Jesus taught this parable. Is he speaking to someone who is overcome with self-righteousness? He is speaking to an audience who is so convinced that in and of my own actions, I am holier than everybody else. Insert the parable of the Good Samaritan. Why is all that important? Because as we go through the rest of the story, I want you to identify with the victim, not the Samaritan. That's why Jesus told the story. Who is Jesus talking to? A Jewish scholar or expert or scribe. When the parable opens in verse 30, a Jewish man was traveling. Who do you think the original audience identified with in the story? The Jewish guy. If I'm Jewish, I'm identified with the Jewish guy. I'm Hawaiian. If a movie opens with a Hawaiian character, I'm going to identify with that. I'm a Christian. If a movie opens with a Christian character, I'm going to identify with that. So what I want you to understand is from here on out, we are going to put ourselves in place of the victim, not the hero. And look at the whole parable. A Jewish man was traveling from Jerusalem down to Jericho. Anybody want to take a guess at why that word down is in there? Why is he traveling down from Jerusalem to Jericho? If you look at it on a map, it's not due south. Say again? No, they're not trying to avoid Samaritan. That would have been a fantastic one. We're talking about elevation. It's lower land. The biblical city of Jerusalem sits 2,484 feet above sea level. The original biblical city of Jericho sits 853 feet below sea level for a grand difference of 3,337 feet over a winding 17-mile journey. So let me paint the picture for you because a first century audience would have known this. If I tell you I am traveling from Washington, D.C. to Las Vegas, what direction am I going? West. How do you know that? Because you knew where the cities were, right? You know that D.C. is on the eastern coast of our country and you know Vegas is way out west somewhere. You know that inherently because you're familiar with the geography. Now if I tell you I'm going to travel to the top of Mount Everest, you know inherently I must be traveling up in elevation because you are aware that the top of Mount Everest is higher than where we're currently standing. That would have all been common knowledge to the gentleman who was telling this story. So when he says he's traveling down from Jerusalem to Jericho, he is quite literally traveling down a mountainside and they're kind of doing this little deal. And it curves back and forth over 3,337 feet over a 17-mile winding journey. Something else you need to know about this road. I love Robin Hood. Growing up, I promise it'll make sense in a minute. I promise. Growing up, I love Robin Hood. I love the Disney cartoon. I love the Kevin Costner version of it. I just like the idea of Robin Hood. Well Robin Hood lived where? Sherwood Forest. And everybody knew when they traveled through Sherwood Forest, there were bandits and bandits might steal your stuff. The road from Jerusalem to Jericho is the first century Sherwood Forest. There were there were small caves, large boulders, plenty of paces for people of ill repute to hide and then jump out and get you and beat you and steal your stuff and then retreat back into the caves where you can't find them. This is also common knowledge to Jesus's first century audience. They know I'm not going to travel from Jerusalem to Jericho by myself because it's dangerous. And yet Jesus sets up a story, a Jewish man. There is a single individual traveling a very dangerous road and he succumbs to some bandits. A Jewish man was traveling down from Jerusalem to Jericho. He's attacked by bandits. They strip him of his clothes. They beat him. They leave him half dead beside the road. Now again, we're going to identify with the victim in this story. Then all of a sudden, a priest comes along. Now, if I'm identifying with the victim, I'm a Jewish man. What do you think my expectation is of a Jewish priest? Is he going to help me or is he not going to help me? Why? Why? You're absolutely right. But now take it a step further. Why do I have an expectation that the Jewish priest is going to help me? Because he's Jewish and somebody said because he's supposed to. Exactly right. Because he's part of my kin. He's Jewish. He's my priest. Of course he's going to stop and help me. But he doesn't. Then who comes next? A temple assistant or your translation may say a Levite. Well, he should surely help me. He helps me find my seat in church. Of course the Levite is going to help me. And yet he passes me by. Now all of a sudden, not only am I naked, bleeding, broke, have all of my stuff stolen, but the people who I look up to most, keep in mind who's our audience. He's a scribe. He teaches the Mosaic law. The two people in the tiers above him in first century Jewish religiosity have just let him down. My priest did not stop and help me. The Levite who helps me find my parking spot at temple. He didn't help me. And then in verse 33, then comes a Samaritan. The Samaritan in this story is absolutely somebody I would call the hated hero. And for this reason you have to understand there is a gigantic amount of hatred between Jews and Samaritans and Samaritans and Jews. Jews hate Samaritans and in turn Samaritans also hate Jews. Now why do Jews hate Samaritans? Well because Samaritans are what a Jewish person, if we're going to be the first century Jewish audience in this story, we view Samaritans as half-bloods. They're part Jewish, part Gentile mix, yet they still claim the promises of Abraham. And by this time in history, the Samaritans had already set up their own temple, their own priest system, and their own sacrificial system in their land, which is exactly why all the Jews traveled around it. They saw it as the absolute maximum amount of heresy that one person could do in a lifetime. They set up a false temple, a false priesthood, a false sacrificial system, all to worship Jehovah God. For us as a first century Jewish audience, these people are what we call wack. They're crazy. And not only are they wack and crazy, but Miss Ilona, they're claiming to be as holy as we are. These people have lost their minds. You have to see how the first century Jewish audience would have seen him. Now likewise, the Samaritans also hate the Jews. Number one, why? Because they hate us first. But number two, if you look back in history, the Jews and the Samaritans often took sides against one another in multiple military conflicts. The Samaritans sided with whoever was fighting against the Jews. Is there any Patriot fans here this morning? No? The one just walked out. Well, I will admit, since it's Super Bowl, I'm not a big sports fan. The Super Bowl is about the only football game I watch every year. And generally I watch it because the commercials are legit. But I don't really have a stake in a game. I have a good friend of mine, his name's Zachary. He's a youth pastor in Georgia. He is a die-hard Georgia Bulldogs fan. It doesn't matter who is playing. He's a Bulldogs fan. And when his team is not playing, he roots for whoever is playing against Auburn. And that's just his life. That makes you happy. You're an Alabama fan. All right. So, you know, he is, I don't care who it is, whoever plays against Auburn, I'm for them today. That's my friend Zach. Well, that's what the Samaritans were like with the first century Jews. Whoever's going to, are you going to involve the Jews? I got your back. Let's go. Whoever's going to hurt the Jews, whoever's going to invade the Jews, whoever's going to take over their land, I'm with you. Because I can't stand them. Why? Because they can't stand me. And it was like the first century Hatfield and McCoys, back and forth, back and forth. The reason the Samaritan is the most unlikely hero in this story is not only do we not expect a Samaritan to stop and help a Jew, we don't expect a Jew to accept help from a Samaritan. Because there's hatred going both ways. So then a despised Samaritan came along and when he saw the man, he felt compassion for him. In the midst of what should have been hatred, Jesus flips the script a little and the Samaritan feels compassion towards the man who's beaten and bloody on the ground. Then the Samaritan soothed his wounds with olive oil and wine and bandaged them. Now olive oil and wine is a typical first century medical practice. But let me ask you a question. Where did the olive oil and wine come from? The guy had all his stuff stolen, right? It's not like he reached into the Jewish guy's backpack and pulled out his first aid kit with his band-aids and his back team. The olive oil and the wine and the bandages all came from the Samaritan because the Jewish guy had all his stuff stolen. That means not only did the Samaritan have compassion on the Jewish man he should have hated, but he had so much compassion he took his own stuff. He took his own first aid kit, his own medical supplies to treat this stranger on the ground. Then he put him on his own donkey. He took him to an inn where he took care of him. And then the very next sentence, three most important words in the entire parable. The next day. How long did the Samaritan care for the wounded Jewish man? At least a day. Because you figure if he was traveling, they would have not. You're not going to travel. You're not going to travel on the Sherwood Forest Thieves Road in the middle of the night. You're going to travel in broad daylight. Which means I take him to the hotel. We get ourselves checked in at the quality inn. And then I stay with him all night to make sure he's okay. Then the next day, handed the innkeeper two silver coins, telling him two silver coins would have roughly been about two months worth of wages. So he's prepaying this guy's medical bill a significant amount. It's not just he tossed him two bits and he's like, here, you know, give him a couple days and then throw him out. No, he's paying for this man for at least a month. Take care of this man. If his bills run higher than this, I'll pay you the next time I'm here. Not only does the Samaritan have the coin on him to pay up the Jewish man's medical supplies, but he must have a reputation and the credit to put whatever's not covered. Put it on my tab. So now we have a man who should have been hated by the man who was wounded. And the man who was wounded should have been hating the guy who helps him. And the Samaritan puts the bill and throws his amex at him. Says, here, just charge the rest to me the next time I'm here. I'm good. I'm good for it. I'm going to extend my credit. I'm good for it. I'll take care of it. Then in verse thirty-six, Jesus concludes and he turns the story back at the expert. Now, which of these three would you say was a neighbor to the man who was attacked by bandits? Why does Jesus bring up the concept of the neighbor again? Because the expert asked it on the front end. Well, who is my neighbor? And Jesus is now blowing wide this whole narrow focus he has here. So which of these would you say was a neighbor to the man who was attacked by bandits? And the man replied, the one who showed him mercy. What is the point of the parable of the Good Samaritan? That our Jewish friend, our expert friend, doesn't get the right to narrow the focus of who God has called him to care for, who God has called to care him to love, in any way that we do not get the right to narrow our focus for who the Christian Church should love, should minister, should reach out to. We don't get the right to consider ourselves better than others because we're the ones who remembered to come to church on Sunday and another group of people didn't. We don't get the right to consider ourselves better than another group just because they worship somewhere else. Even if we don't like it, even if we disagree with it, we don't get the right to see ourselves as better than whoever you fill in the blank with they are. Because when you start taking that right to define the scope of Scripture for yourself, you become self-righteous because you're not following God's law anymore. You're following your reinterpretation of God's law. Now, what I'd like to do, if you'll permit me, is I would like to retell you the parable of the Good Samaritan in our modern-day context. I'm not trying to re-quote Scripture. I'm just trying for you to hear it the way our first century audience heard it. So Aaron, let me tell you a quick story. This Christian friend of mine, right, he was traveling. He was just traveling out around. And he went for a drive down near, I don't know, 16th Street in Roanoke in Newport News. That's a good neighborhood. That's nice and safe. So he's traveling down there. He's walking. And all of a sudden, out of nowhere, comes a group of thugs. They mug him. They rob him. They beat him up. They take his coat. They take his shoes. They steal his car. And they leave him there in a ditch. My Christian friend's sitting there. He's got to be praying to God. God, just send somebody by who will help me. All of a sudden, around the corner comes a pastor. The pastor's working on his sermon, reading his Bible, listening to some praise and worship music. Surely, my friend thinks, oh, thank God. God, thank you for sending me such a godly man. The pastor crosses to the other side of the street. He's like, and none of that. And walks on. He goes, okay, God, send me another friend. Send me somebody who can help. All of a sudden, maybe a deacon or an elder at a local church comes by. And the deacon's, he's praying. He's talking on the phone about what's going on at the church. He sees my friend laying there in a ditch. I don't got the time. I got to get back to church. I got stuff to do. And he leaves the man laying in the ditch. And there, my friend's still sitting there. He's still bloody. He's still bleeding. He's still saying, God, just send me somebody to help. And around the corner comes a gay couple. And they stop. And they pick him up. And they walk him down the street to the emergency room. And they check him in. And they pay his bill. And they sit with him all night. Just to make sure he's okay. That's the parable of a good Samaritan. If you flinched when I mentioned the gay couple, that's self-righteousness. Because that's what the Samaritans were to the first century Jews. As I was trying to prepare for this message, I won't lie to you, I called a few people in the church to make sure I could say that out loud and not get fired on my first day. But I want you to understand, the animosity that existed between the first century Jews and the first century Samaritans is just like the animosity that exists between the Christian right and the LGBT left. We're fighting a fight that doesn't need to be fought as long as we lead with compassion and not hatred, with love and not judgment. That's what the parable of a good Samaritan is about. We should not be taking the word of God and narrowing the scope to I love my brother. Jesus said love your neighbor. We find it very easy to love people in the church when the reality is Jesus is calling us to love people outside of the church. That's the parable of a good Samaritan.