We are going to be concluding our end of days series this morning. Now, if you have not been with us for all of end of days, that is totally okay. I'm going to give a little bit of a brief review because we want to sort of build up and then Zach, we're going to put the cherry on top of where we've been. So first things first, let's take a look. Should be the key thought. Yeah. The key thought for this particular series is that the end of the world is a series of events. It is not a singular point in time. I know, Dusty, a lot of modern day Hollywood wants to tell us the world's going to end in one cataclysmic bang, but the Word of God says differently. And I choose the Word of God over Hollywood every single day. So the Word of God tells us that it will happen in a series of events. In the opening message, we talked about the promises of God, that God has made certain promises to His people and those promises are outstanding and they will be fulfilled. We mentioned four promises from Scripture that like the outside of a puzzle frame, create the edges for which we interpret. Can someone remember one promise? The Davidic covenant, the Abrahamic covenant, Palestinian covenant, and the New covenant. And those four covenants together create the framework. If you weren't here for that message, you can find them all on reedswood.com. Then we talked about the rapture coming from the Latin word rapturo, where the Church of Jesus Christ is raptured up into the sky to be with Him. Then we talked about the tribulation, the seven year period of time and what happens during those events. The end of the tribulation, the Lord Jesus comes back in His triumphant return. He sets up His millennial kingdom. And then I believe He will physically reign for a physical thousand years on a physical earth from Jerusalem. At the end of the millennial reign, Satan is released from his bondage. He goes out to seize the nation. Finally we have the battle of Armageddon. And then today we are going to talk about the eternal kingdom. The eternal kingdom. Last week we took at the earthly kingdom, which is the millennial reign of Christ on earth. Then at the end of last week's message, the Lord was going to make a new heaven and a new earth. What we are going to talk about this morning is what I believe scripture gives us a hint or a glimpse at what that will look like. What will the Lord's eternal kingdom look like? So here is the first point I want to make this morning. In the Lord's eternal kingdom, we will live with God. This is Revelation chapter 21 verse 3. This is also from the New Living translation. It says, I heard a loud shout from the throne saying, Look! God's home is now among His people. He will live with them and they will be His people. God Himself will be with them. This is probably the single greatest difference that we may not be able to fully understand in our earthly lives today. We have the Holy Spirit within us as believers. We believe that the Holy Spirit dwells with Christians. But we don't really have a sense or an experience of what it means to truly live with God. To dwell alongside of God. The reason we can do this is after all of these events have happened, Satan has been defeated. Sin has been defeated. Last week we looked at all the different judgments. Humanity has been judged. Satan is angel is judged. Creation has been judged. We are now back in what I would probably describe as an Edenic state. Meaning like the Garden of Eden, it was perfect. It's meant to allow for God's presence. If we look in the Garden of Eden, we see that the Lord came down and physically walked with Adam in the coolness of the day in the evening time. So in the eternal kingdom, the primary difference between our life today and our life in this time period is right there where it says God's home is now among His people. And we see imagery of this all throughout the Old Testament. Look at the promise to Abraham. I will be your God and you will be my people. This is an everlasting covenant. And then the Lord had them build the Tabernacle. And during the wilderness wanderings, they built a portable God house. A portable home for God's glory. And when they would erect the Tabernacle, the Lord's presence would descend into the Tabernacle. Then the Tabernacle got replaced with the Temple. And then they had the Temple in the latter part of the Old Testament. Then the Temple gets destroyed. Then Nehemiah prays. He gets sent back. He rebuilt the Temple. Q the New Testament. Herod expands that Temple. But it's still a Temple, a physical building in which the Lord dwells with His people. Then Jesus comes and He sacrifices His life. The veil in the Temple is torn. And now where is God's presence? During the age of the Church, God's presence is resident within the believer. So that's basically the biblical history of God's presence with His people in a condensed version. And this is the culmination of that. We will no longer have the Lord's presence living inside of us. His presence will physically be outside of us, but with us for eternity. God's home is now among His people. He will live with them and they will be His people. God Himself will be with them. This is a very literal sense that we in our resurrected bodies in the eternal life will dwell directly with God. Let's take a look at the next point. Death, sorrow, and pain will be no more. Revelation chapter 21 verse 4. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And there will be no more death or sorrow or crying or pain. All of these things are gone forever. Number one, I've got to say, Mr. Don, that sounds amazing. That sounds awesome. But it also sounds very foreign to anything I can understand. Because I was born into a fallen world. I was born into a world that is filled with those things. I was born into a world where, I mean, what would Thomas Jefferson say? The two things that you can definitely count on in life. Death and taxes. That's right. We are all going to die. And I don't mean that to scare anyone. Death is the natural consequence of this life on this earth. But it is not the natural consequence of where we go after this life. After this life, there will be no more death. There will also be no more sorrow and pain. Because those are outcroppings of sin. And we won't have that in God's eternal kingdom. We will be in His glorious presence all the time. I have to say, honestly, Ms. Susanna, this one is a little tough for me to wrap my brain around. What would life, just close your eyes and imagine, dream with me for a minute. What is life like in the physical presence of God with no pain, with no sorrow, with no tears, with no negative feelings of any kind? Pure, unadulterated joy in the Lord's presence. I don't know that my brain is capable of comprehending that in my current state, Mr. Pete. I think my fallen nature, I think the fact that I still live in a fallen world, even with the Holy Spirit within me, my brain is not big enough to comprehend this. But I can tell you one thing, I believe the word of God is true. I believe when the Lord tells me what's going to happen, I place my faith in it and I can trust it. So even if I can't cerebrally comprehend what it will be like, I can read this verse. He will wipe every tear from their eye. There will no longer be any reason for tears. There will be no more death. There will no longer be any reason for death. There will no longer be any reason for sorrow. There will no longer be any reason for crying. There will no longer be any reason for pain. Why? Because in the Lord's presence all these things are gone forever. Also remember, this is an eternal state, not a temporal one. Mr. John, we're not going to live here and then go back to Eden and start all over again. There is no reincarnation in the Christian worldview plan. This is the eternal ending. I know a pastor said one time, and I think I've used it already in this series, that the life on this earth is merely the audition for eternity. All we have to do is survive the 120 something years that we live on this earth. And then we will get, if we have faith in Christ, we will get this as the eternal reward. Eternity in the presence of God with no death, with no sorrow, and no pain. And life will be made new. This is the next verse, verse 21, verse 5. And the one sitting on the throne, i.e. that's God, said, Look, I am making everything new. Because God has a southern accent in case you didn't know that. And then he said to me, write this down for what I tell you is trustworthy and true. Somebody asked me one time, it was a younger student in my church in Florida, Pastor, what is the new earth going to look like? I gave him the most theologically correct answer I could. Want to hear it? See, it says everything will be made new. Mr. Pete, that word new means right off the assembly line. That means shiny, turnkey, ready to go. What will the Lord make new? Well, I can tell you one thing. The Lord is a creative God. He created all that we know in this universe in six days. And then took a siesta on number seven. He has enough creative abilities to make anything, anything. So I don't want to tell you that the grass is going to be purple, or the sky is going to be orange, or monkeys are no longer going to have tails, and dogs are going to meow. I'm not going to claim any of those things. Could they be? Absolutely. But the Lord in His infinite sovereign creativity is going to make everything new. And then look at what the next sentence He said after that is. Write this down. Write it down. Remember it. What was the Jewish view of Scripture? That they were to teach Scripture to their children. Go all the way back to Abraham and what did he say? Write this down. Let this law be on your hearts. Teach it to your children. When you get up, when you're going out, bear with an expectation on the part of Jewish culture that anything written in Scripture would be communicated to the following generation. Write this down. When you get to my kingdom, it's all going to be brand new. Everything will be nice and shiny. And here's what I think is amazing. If we're talking about eternity, how can something get old? Old is a construct of the way we understand life today. Time, as time passes, age happens over time. If we're in an eternal state, it is very possible, i.e. logically possible, that we're talking about an eternal state of newness. Something that doesn't really make sense to us in the way we understand time and physics in our realm today. But we're going to be in God's presence in an eternal state of new. Everything will be Eden all over again. And that's if God decides to retread Eden. He could make something totally new that's even better than Eden. Because He's eternal. He's got time to go, you know what? Next time, that should have been a bush. I like it better that way. God will make all things new. Write this down. What I tell you is trustworthy and true. If there is one thing in this world that you should place your trust in, it's the Word of God. You know why? It's the only thing that will outlast the world itself. The Word of God is always true. The physical Bibles that we read will pass away when the earth is destroyed. But the Word of God contained within them is eternal because God is eternal. So He's going to make everything new. All the Lord's plans will be complete. Here's verses 6 and 7. And He also said, It is finished. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To all who are thirsty, I will give freely from the springs of the water of life. All who are victorious will inherit all these blessings, and I will be their God, and they will be my children. Does that last line sound familiar to anybody else? In the eternal state, all of God's promises have been fulfilled and stay fulfilled in eternity. It's not like after we left the Millennial Kingdom, God was like, okay, check, Davidic promise done, let's move on. No. The eternal kingdom, Mr. Don, is the eternal fulfillment state. It's the fulfillment of those promises. Jesus is the eternal King of Kings and Lord of Lords. The nation of Israel, the Hebrews, are His eternal people. The church is grafted in eternally. Remember, we're talking eternal kingdom now. Everything has just an arrow when it comes to time. It never stops. It never ends. This is held by God's eternal positioning. Jesus said, it is finished. You know what I find really interesting about that? Same exact thing Jesus said on the cross. To tell us die, it is finished. Why? Because in my view, when Christ died on the cross, He set in motion everything that lead from the first it is finished to the last it is finished. All of it was set in motion. And when we get to this moment in the eternal kingdom, to all who are thirsty, I will give freely from the springs of the water of life, and all who are victorious will inherit all these blessings. We will live eternally in the blessings and presence of God. All of the Old Testament promises that we reviewed remain in effect and fulfilled in eternity. Jesus is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. We and our glorified selves will be with Him. I don't think I can say the word eternity enough times. Take me forward one more. And the Lord will be our priority. Here's verse 8. But cowards, unbelievers, the corrupt murderers, the immoral, those who practice witchcraft, idol worshipers, and liars, their fate is in the fiery lake of burning sulfur. This is the second death. Now I find it interesting that in the midst of all this super encouraging stuff, Sarah, he throws this one verse in there. In all this is super and everything will be made new. And write it down, it's all trustworthy. But, verse 8, let's just take a look at the list here. Because I think there's a very applicable principle for us in the group that the Lord selected for this particular passage. Cowards. What is the definition of a coward? I would argue that the definition of coward is the exact opposite of courage. Experiencing fear does not make a coward. Allowing fear to control or inhibit action does make a coward. Just like experiencing fear does not make one brave or courageous. It is action in the midst of fear that establishes courage. It is the lack of action or the detracted action in the midst of fear that creates coward, in my opinion. So what does it mean, a coward? A coward is someone who put their fears over their duty. Someone who put their fear ahead of what they needed to do. The second person, an unbeliever. This one is sort of obvious. And I would say in this context he's really talking about a willfully defiant, like we talked about, a willfully defiant unbeliever. This is somebody, because think about what we said last week. They had Moses and the prophets. Even if someone raised from the dead they would not listen. At this point we're talking about all the unbelievers are gone. But they specifically chose something over belief. The corrupt. What corrupts more than anything else? Well, yeah, I would say politics, but politics are corrupted by money. Money always corrupts. What is corruption? Putting greed over God. The immoral. What is immoral? Putting self-pleasure, what you want, over what God wants. Those who practice witchcraft, what is witchcraft? Trusting in something supernatural other than God. What are idol worshipers? Someone who worships an idol and not God. Do you see the pattern that's going on here? And liars. I find it so interesting that this is the last person on this list. We've talked about witches and warlocks and politicians and greedy people. Oh, and liars. Please don't give in to the culturally accepted idea that lying is okay. If the Lord God is the measure of truth, then everything that's not truth is a lie. There is no room for a lack of integrity in the kingdom of God. There just isn't. I know in our culture today we want to say, but Pete, it was just a little white lie. It's totally okay. No. A little lie or a big lie. You're still choosing falsehood over truth. If we are to be the people that God has called us to be, we must be truthful at all times. And if you want a definition for it, look at all of the other murderers. Just let me read the list again. And I want you to look at how heavy-handed you would think some of these things are. Cowards, unbelievers, corrupt, murderers, immoral, witchcraft, idol worshipers, and liars. It's almost like we want to say the last one quietly. Because we want to make ourselves feel better. That, oh, that sin's okay. No. This is in the list of all of the people who will not, and keep in mind, eternity. This is the eternal kingdom. If you get sent into the fiery lake, it's for eternity. It's not for a day. It's not for a week. It's not for a month. There's no more time. The concept of time itself is gone. I know that seems so foreign for us in the world we live today. But this is the world we will live in then. There is no more concept of time. It's just eternity. Do we really want to be relegated to eternity in the lack of God's presence? And if that were not bad enough, intentional torture and harm. This is it. There is no changing your eternal reservations once you leave this life. Once you leave this life. This life is where you book your reservations. The next life is where you're going to sleep in it. Take me out. So this is what I want to ask you this morning. That's the picture of eternal kingdom. You will either be with God in His physical presence, with everything made eternally new, or you won't be. There is no Switzerland of eternity. There's no middle ground where I'm not quite godly and I'm not quite evil. No. There are two eternal destinations. When you make your reservation, you get one choice. Mr. Glenn, you can have smoking or non-smoking. That's all I got. I don't have anything better to offer you. You can have a table for four in smoking or non-smoking. Table for six, smoking or non-smoking. It's the only choice that we're given in this life. Have you made your reservation today? We have stewards standing behind to accept your reservation today. Have you made it? Do you know when we get to this moment, when we are finally finished with the rapture, finished with the tribulation, finished with the millennial kingdom, and we transition into that eternal state, it's either in God's presence or eternally banished from God's presence. And the definition, or the reservation, has to be made in this life. So if you're sitting in this room this morning, or you happen to be listening to this recording online, I cannot overstress. We are talking about eternity. Your life on this earth is, the Bible says, it's like a mist. Hear one minute and go on the next in comparison to the length of your eternal life. Where is your eternal reservation today?