So this morning what I'd like to discuss with you is the parable of the talents. And we'll talk about what a talent is in a moment. But the parable of the talents. So if you brought your Bibles with you this morning, whether they're physical or digital, please turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew. The Gospel of Matthew. He should be pretty easy to find. It's the first book in the New Testament. So if you look in your table of contents for New Testament and you jump right there, you're going to jump right into the Gospel of Matthew. Specifically, we're going to be in Matthew chapter 25. Matthew chapter 25. And we're going to be looking at verses 14 to 30. So Matthew chapter 25, verses 14 to 30. And I will be reading it to you in the NIV or the New International Version. So that's Matthew chapter 25, starting to read in verse 14. Here's what the Word of the Lord says. Again, it will be like a man going on a journey, who has called his servants and entrusted his wealth to them. To one he gave five bags of gold, to another two bags, and to another one bag, each according to his ability. Then he went on his journey. The man who had received five bags of gold went at once and put his money to work, and gained five bags more. So also the one with two bags of gold gained two more. But the man who had received one bag went off, dug a hole in the ground, and hid his master's money. After a long time, the master of those servants returned and settled accounts with them. The man who had received five bags of gold brought the other five. Master, he replied, you entrusted me with five bags of gold. See, I have gained five more. His master replied, well done, my good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share your master's happiness. The man with two bags of gold also came. Master, he replied, you entrusted me with two bags of gold. See, I have gained two more. His master replied, well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share your master's happiness. Then the man who had received one bag of gold came. Master, he said, I knew you were a hard man, harvesting where you have not sown and gathering where you have not scattered seed. So I was afraid and went out and hid your gold in the ground. See, here is what belongs to you. His master replied, you wicked, lazy servant. So you knew that I harvest where I have not sown and gather where I have not scattered seed. Well then, you should have put my money on deposit with the bankers so that when I returned I would have received it back with interest. So take the bag of gold from him and give it to the one who has ten bags. For whoever has, excuse me, forever has will be given more and they will have an abundance. But whoever does not have, even what they have will be taken from them and throw out that worthless servant into the darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. That was Matthew 25, 14-30. Now before I get into what this parable means, I would like to establish what it does not mean. So we can narrow our scope of focus of what we're talking about today. So the first thing that this parable does not mean is Jesus is not talking about spiritual gifts. He is not talking about if you use the gifts that God has given you, your spiritual gifts, that you will gain more spiritual gifts. Well, how do I know that? Because in 1 Corinthians chapter 12 verse 11, it says that the Holy Spirit is he who gives out spiritual gifts. Therefore, if the Holy Spirit is the one who gives out spiritual gifts, it can't be our power to earn them. It's in God's providence to distribute them. Second, this parable is not talking about the gospel. It's not talking about preaching the gospel to people who have not heard it. How do I know that? Well, the first two servants, they earned more bags of gold. Does that mean that we can earn more gospels? There's more than one gospel that saves? No, obviously not. So therefore, the bags of gold cannot represent the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now, let me tell you what a talent is because there's an interesting, I guess, a misnomer here between the original language that is spoken today and the word we have today. We have the word talent in our English vocabulary. And in an English vocabulary, the word talent is a skill or gift that could be anything. Pete has a talent for playing guitar. That's a skill or gift for a specific use. Bethy has a talent for singing, a skill or gift for a specific use. That English understanding of the word has nothing to do with this parable. I want you to understand that. I know we immediately hear, oh, he was given five talents. He was given two talents. So I've been given the ability to play guitar and I can sing, so I must be the two talent guy. No, that's not what it is. A talent in this, because remember, when was Jesus alive? First century. First century AD. A talent was the single largest monetary size in the Roman Empire. It's actually a weight. It's not even a dollar amount. It's a weight. Has anybody ever said I'll take a pound of 20s? That's a lot of money, right? I'll take a pound of hundred dollar bills. That's what a talent is. A talent, you could actually have a talent of gold, a talent of silver, or a talent of nickel, or a talent of brass. It was a weight and it was the single largest amount of weight in the Roman monetary system. So with that in mind, let's go back to the beginning of our text and let's get into it a little bit. Because there are some really interesting things here. So let's first go back to verse 14 and the very first word that Jesus says. In the NIV, his very first word is again. Well, Nancy, that presents a problem. Because I know that that word again means Jesus is linking to something he's already said. So the next thing you need to understand about this parable is, Miss Ilona, you can't start at verse 14 if we want to understand what Jesus is saying. Because it's like you're jumping into the middle of his speech and he's saying again and then he gives another parable for it. So that word again is a big flashing green light that should say, well, Mr. Charles, again what? Jesus is expounding on a previous point that he has already made. So to put this in its proper context, we really have to go back to the previous chapter. And I'm not going to read it for you, but sometime this week I'd like you to go back and read the previous chapter and everything leading up to it. This is what you're going to discover. In Matthew chapter 24, verses 1 through verse 35, Jesus is teaching about the destruction of the temple and the signs of the end times. You can go back and see it. Jesus is talking about the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem and signs of the end times that has not happened yet. Then in 24, 36, all the way through 25, 13, he has a series of different teachings that are all backing up that original point talking about the end times. Specifically, no one knows when the Lord will return. 24, 37, he makes mention in the days of Noah. Well, nobody knew the flood was going to happen except for Noah. God knew and God had told Noah, but no one else knew. 24, 40, two men are in the field. One is left and one goes. 24, 41, two women at the mill. One is left, one goes. 24, 42, keep watch. 25, 1 through 13, the parable of the ten virgins, which is all about preparing for Jesus' second coming. And 25, 13, keep watch. With that in mind, the proper context for this parable is the second coming of Jesus. Now that makes a huge difference when we start looking at this whole parable again, because it's not about the servants. That's what's really interesting about this parable. The servants might be the main characters, but it's really about the master who goes and comes back. And you would be tempted to miss that if we didn't properly look at all of this. So the context for this passage really should be, watch out, be ready, the Lord is returning. Say that with me. Watch out, be ready, the Lord is returning. One more time. Watch out, be ready, the Lord is returning. That's what the parable of the talents, that's the framework of it. So now let's get into the first verse. A man is going on a journey. Well, the man in this parable is Jesus. Jesus is teaching about himself, and he is going on a journey. Now that word journey in the Greek literally means to travel abroad or away from one's home. Well, Jesus did that. Jesus was here. He had his ministry. He was crucified. He was resurrected. Then for 40 days, he continued to teach the apostles after Easter Sunday all the way into the day of his ascension, which by the way, there's not a single stitch of Scripture recorded what he taught in those 40 days post-Easter. I find it very interesting the Lord chose to be silent because whatever the guy who just rose from the grave is going to teach, I'm pretty sure, Don, we're listening. You know, I mean, he just rose from the dead. He was dead, y'all, and now he's alive. I'm going to listen to whatever that joker's got to say. For whatever reason, the Lord chose to leave that part of Scripture out. But then Jesus ascends and now we have what we call the church age. It's the age of us. We are the church of Jesus Christ. And it's our job to preach his message and continue his mission until he comes. So Jesus is going on a journey. He has gone up to his father in heaven. He is going to come back at a second time. Then he has the servants. The servants, the literal word there means one who is subjugated or subservient to another, a servant, a slave, a bond servant, or an indentured servant. All of those words would work for what that Greek word for servant means. Well, if we know that we're talking about the church age and we know that we're talking about that time between Jesus' ascension and when he comes back, well, then who are the servants? Yes, sir. Oh, by the way, I should say that. I like dialogue. So if I turn and ask a question, it's totally okay to just blurt it out. But yes, Mr. Don, absolutely, it's us. So when we talk about the parable of talents, Jesus is the master. He's gone away on his journey, meaning he's in heaven. He hasn't returned yet. And the servants are us, those who have been left entrusted with his mission. Now, those who are here on Wednesday, I did give a little teaser. This word entrusted, very important to understand the depth of this word entrusted. I do hope that all of you may get a chance to come out on Wednesday because we have a whole lot more time to dig in and get into the nuances of scripture. But this word entrusted literally means to hand over or give control to. And in the Greek, this word entrusted is used several times in the New Testament. It's used here. The master entrusted his wealth to his servants. In Matthew chapter four, verse 12, it talks about John being put in prison. He was handed over or control of John was put by the prison guard. Matthew chapter 10, verse four, Judas Iscariot betrays Jesus. He handed him over to the Romans in Matthew chapter 10, verse 17. Be wary that you may be handed over to courts and local councils, meaning control of you might be handed over to someone else. In the book of Matthew 11, 27, Jesus himself said, all things have been committed to me or handed over to me by my Father in heaven. When we look at all of the times that this word entrusted is used in scripture, Miss Carey, there's one definition that screams out at you. Total control being handed over from one body to another body. When Jesus betrayed Jesus or when Judas betrayed Jesus, he was handed over. When John got put in prison, he was handed over. So when we read that the master entrusted his servants with his money, he handed it over. That's right. For a literal amount of time, we said, OK, here, this is now yours. You have complete control over it. I'll be back later. But until I'm back, it's yours, not mine. It's not like I just borrowed it. No, no, no, this is completely yours. And my Samsung pay only works with my fingerprint. So you really can't spend a lot with it. But that word entrusted lets us know because, again, what's the context? Miss Susanna, Jesus is the master. He's in heaven waiting to come back. We as his servants have been handed over or entrusted with his mission. Now, with that as the background, one one thing for those of you who like history, a talent was worth approximately 6000 days wage or 20 years of a salary. Interestingly enough, you know the word, the English word salary, you know where it comes from? It comes from the Greek word for salt. You know why? Because the Romans were paid in salt. Their weight in salt. Salt was a type of money. Salary. So even our English word salary reminds us of the Roman monetary system. So just take whatever your annual salary is times 20. And that's one talent. OK, so just for kicks and giggles, let's pretend, I mean, does anybody know what the average American salary is? I don't know. I probably should have looked that up. Yes, sir? Well, Mike, the first of the experts said it was worth 5,750,000. You should buy your public service business. OK, yeah. So. Price of gold, we will hire that. It's a lot of money. I might not be that educated, but that's the tune of money. That's like lottery winnings right there. And keep in mind, that's one talent. The first servant got handed five of those. That's a hundred years salary. So it's a lot of money. What you need to understand is the money is not necessarily important. But what is important is how valuable what the servants were entrusted with was. Jesus chose the highest denomination of money to show one thing. The value of what was handed to the servants. Now, here's the first thing I would like to point out. The servants were not equal in their ability. And the master knew it. Look at verse 15. To one he gave five bags of gold, to another two bags, and to another one bag. And look at that. Each according to his ability. So the servants are not equal in their ability. And furthermore, the master knows it. He knows the servants are not equal in their ability. And he only gives to each servant that which is proportionate to his ability. Now, for ease of conversation, none of the servants are mentioned. So we can call them servant A, servant B, and servant C. But that gets really old really quick. So we're going to call them Andrew, Bob, and Charlie. For the rest of this morning, Andrew, Bob, and Charlie. ABC. So Andrew is the gentleman who got five bags of gold, five talents. Bob is going to be the guy that got the two bags of gold, or the two talents. And Charlie will be the unfortunate guy at the end of the story who only got one. What's interesting about Andrew, Bob, and Charlie is the master knew them well enough to know how much they would be good at being responsible for. I'll say that again. The master knew all three servants well enough to know how much they could be placed in charge of. Now again, what's our context? Jesus is the master. We're the servants. The timing is the church age. So you know what that means? That means, Pete, I may never be able to play guitar like you. Not because I'm not smart, not because I couldn't practice. But the master knew how much I would be able to be responsible for. And he gave me that which I could work with. So we shouldn't be jealous of one another. Christians should not be jealous of each other. You know why? Because, Sharon, it wasn't my gift. I'm really good at talking in front of people, or so people tell me. I try really hard not to let the ADHD go on for too long. My dad, for instance, so you met him a few weeks ago. He's the head deacon of his church. He does not like getting up in front of the congregation and talking whatsoever. He does not like doing it. And it's not that he's not an intelligent man. He's an incredibly intelligent man. But I have a gift for talking in front of people. My dad doesn't like it. Does that mean that I'm a better servant, or I'm a better Christian, or I'm a better person just because that which the Lord has given me is different? No. It just means the master knows his servants. And he knows what each one of us is really worth being entrusted with. The other thing I want you to point out is this. Both Andrew and Bob garnered the same increase on their investment. Andrew had five. He earned five more. That's a 100% increase. Bob got two. He earned two more. That's also a 100% increase. So if you stop looking at what the servants were given, and you start looking at what they did with what they were given, Andrew and Bob are on the same scale. They both doubled that which they were given by the master. Here's the second thing I want to point out. The servants worked in the absence of the master. Look at verse 19. After a long time, the master of those servants returned and settled accounts with them. So the entire time that they are working with the gifts that the master has given, the master's not there. This is not spirituality with training wheels. This is not the master standing behind them making sure they make the right business deals. No, no, no, no. We entrusted. We turned over. We gave authority over to the servants. And then the master just takes a vacay and is chilling in Baja for a little bit of time. And then the master comes back and chooses to settle accounts. And I know I've already said this, but Jesus was crucified on Good Friday, resurrected on Easter Sunday. He taught the disciples for 40 days in his post-resurrection body. That's Acts chapter one, verse three. And then Jesus will eventually return, the scripture says, quote, on the clouds in his second coming, which is mentioned in Revelation chapter one, verse seven. We are living in the time period that the majority of this parable takes place. You notice that it happened really, really fast in verse 16. The man who received five bags of gold when it wants to put his money to work and gain five more. It doesn't tell you how long that took. It just tells you what was accomplished in the time frame. So sometimes the time in scripture can expand and it can contract. That's a pretty big amount of time. It doesn't tell us how long it took him to double his money. It just tells us that was the outcome. In verse 17, also, also, the one with two bags gained two more, but the one who received one bag dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money. Nowhere in there is there a reference to time. That's why right there in verses 16, 17 and 18, Jason, that's where we're living right now. We're living in the time with the absence of the master when the servants are in charge of his value, his wealth. The master will eventually come back. In verse 19, the master came back to settle accounts with them. If no one has ever told you this, then let me open your eyes a little bit. Being a Christian is more than just accepting Christ for salvation and then waiting to get to heaven at the end of your life. That's not what scripture says about being a follower of Jesus. Jesus should be more than your reservation in eternity being smoking or non-smoking. Jesus should be more than just changing your eternal destiny. It should be more than changing your life day to day. Accepting the responsibility that, wow, I've been entrusted with this amazing Word of God and it's my job to help teach other people about Jesus, not just my job because I'm a pastor, my job because I'm a Christian. It's all of our jobs to share what our, and you know what I love about our current, the current cultural trend in our society makes teaching the Bible more difficult. But Jason, it does make one thing much more easy. Giving your testimony in a post-Christian pluralistic society, there's one thing that doesn't change. Everybody's got a story. And your story is just as valuable as my story. It's just as valuable as Jeanne's story. It's just as valuable as Susanna's story. So being able to share your faith through what God has done in your life is an absolutely powerful ministry tool today. But we are still currently living in this absentee time without the Master. But eventually, He's going to come back. And that's again when we tie into all of last chapter. Jesus talked about the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem. He talked about the end times in Revelation and what's going to happen. And then He goes into these parables. And the main point He's trying to say is, guys, guys, guys, you've been entrusted with something until I come back. So let's take a look at this in verse 20. We start seeing the servants presenting what they did to the Master. In verse 20, Andrew shows up. He says, Master, you gave me five. Look, I made five more. And then the Master's response, Well done, my good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share your Master's happiness. Then in verse 22, the man with two bags of gold came. Master, you entrusted me with two. I've gained two more. Look at the response in verse 23. Well done, my good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share in your Master's happiness. Did you notice that both Andrew and Bob received the same greeting from the Master even though they didn't do the same amount of work? Even though they didn't start with the same amount of resources? They got the same reply from the Master. Why? Because the Master wasn't judging them on what they started with. He was judging them on what they ended with. Both Andrew and Bob received the same greeting from the Master because he wasn't judging them on how much he gave them to start with. The Master knew that. The Master knew that Andrew had two and a half times the amount of resources that Bob did. But Jason, that wasn't what he was judging them on. He was judging them on how well did you do with what I gave you? He wasn't ranking them by what they were given. He's ranking them on what they did with it. So both Andrew and Bob received the same greeting. And there's three basic components to this greeting. Number one, well done, my good and faithful servant. If that is the only thing I hear when I get to heaven, I will be a happy camper. Might not be, but hopefully if that's the only thing I hear, well done, my good and faithful servant. Then the next thing, you have been faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things. Now, now we need to go off page a little bit and we need to dive into the world of eschatology so I can try and explain this. If we understand the scope of this parable, we're in the church age, Jesus is in heaven, He has entrusted us with certain resources to accomplish the work of His ministry, and He's eventually going to come back at the second coming, then what are we going to be entrusted with? Just think about the timeline here. Jesus comes back at His second coming and then He tells the servants, You have been faithful over little things, I will put you in charge of many things. What is He going to put us in charge of? Well, without getting into a gigantic end times debate, let me just tell you how this thing plays out. Jesus returns at the second coming, He raptures the church with Him. Then, that's when the first of two different judgments happens in the book of Revelation, and it's called the Bema, B-E-M-A, judgment. And this is not a hell or no hell kind of a judgment, that's the great white throne judgment, it happens much later in the book of Revelation. The Bema judgment is the judgment for believers. Now let me ask a simple question, if you know Jesus, does that mean there's a possibility that you can go to hell? Jesus is your one and only Savior. No, Jesus saved us from hell. So what's the Bema judgment for? Think about it as the reward ceremony at the end of school every year. At the end of every year, everybody gets together and they pass out rewards, right? This is most improved, most humorous, most likely to go to jail, most likely to go to Hollywood. Whatever the awards were in your high school, I'm not judging. The Bema judgment is the judgment for believers. Think about this, Jesus said, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. The Bema judgment is the judgment that those who are saved in Christ, we go and we are judged by Christ and we are then rewarded for life in eternity based on that which we did in this life. And Jesus references it when he says here, you have been faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things. For the Christian, life on this earth is only what, 82, 100 something years? Maybe a little more than 100 if you're lucky. Eternity is a whole other story that we got to talk about. What are we going to do in eternity? Well, God's going to make a new heaven, a new earth. Jesus is going to have a brand new millennial kingdom. You know what? Somebody still has to take out the trash. Somebody, we still have, and this is, and again, I don't want to get too far down the eschatological rabbit hole, but if we are spending eternity with Jesus, there is a certain work and reward system in eternity. And he mentions it here by saying, you have put in faithful a few things, I will put you in charge of many things. Jesus is reminding us that Levi, it's not just what we do on this earth that matters. It's what we do on this earth that directly affects our eternity when we get there. The Master comes back, and I love this, Andrew and Bob received the same greeting. They weren't given the same resources to start with, but they showed the same level of faithfulness. Now, I think implicit in, since the Master knows his servants, more than likely, Andrew and Bob are not handed the same responsibilities in the eternal kingdom either. The Master knew his servants. He knew what they'd be good at. And interestingly enough, he gave Andrew and Bob exactly what they needed to double it. He gave Andrew and Bob exactly what they needed to double their starting resources. And then Charlie steps up. Let's take a look at verse 24. Then the man who had received one bag of gold, calling him Charlie, Master, I knew you were a hard man, harvesting where you had not sown and gathering where you had not scattered seed. So I was afraid, and I went out and I hid your gold in the ground. Here is what belongs to you. Now, before we get into the Master's response, let's take a look at the difference between Andrew and Bob and Charlie. Andrew and Bob put what they had given to work. They bartered with it. They traded with it. What's interesting is if you look at the text, it says they put the Master's money to work. They didn't work. They gave the resources the Master gave them, and that's what they put to work. Whereas Charlie did the exact opposite. Charlie took what the Master had given him and hid it and buried it and didn't use it and didn't let it do its job, but kept it for himself to make sure he didn't lose it. Charlie operated in fear. Andrew and Bob operated in faith. Fear always paralyzes. Faith always excites. Fear always paralyzes. Faith excites. So Charlie did not take what the Master had given him and do anything with it. In fact, he did the exact opposite. He buried it so it couldn't even do anything by itself. Then in verse 26, the Master replied, or your translation may say evil. You notice the Master does not accept the charge that he's a hard man? He repeats the second half of what Charlie said, that yeah, I did have an expectation that you were going to do something with what I gave you. But he doesn't accept the charge that he was a hard and dispassionate man. Why? Who's the Master? Jesus. When you think of Jesus, do you think of someone who's hard and unforgiving? No. So interestingly, the Master knew the servant, but the servant didn't know the Master. The Master knew the servant, but Charlie clearly did not know his Master like he thought he did. So 26, you wicked and lazy servant, you knew that I harvest to where I had not sown, gathered where I had not scattered seed. 27, then you should have at least put my money on deposit with the bankers. The Master had an expectation that the servants would do something with that which he gave them. Now they can get the same equal amount of treatment, but they weren't judged on what they were given. They were only judged on what they did with it. When you look at the Master's response to Charlie in 26 and in 27, there's one major thing I want you to understand. God is not judging you on what you have in your life. God is judging you on what you do with what you have in your life. God didn't judge Charlie on the fact that he was given less than Andrew and Bob. Why? Because the Master knew it. The Master gave it to him. He knew that he had less, but he still could have used that which the Master had given him and put it to work. But Charlie was afraid, and out of fear, he was paralyzed, and he didn't step up and do the job. He could have easily been the third servant that said, Master, you gave me one talent. I put it to work, Master. Here's one more. It's not as much as Bob. It's definitely not as much as Andrew. But Master, I did my best with what you gave me. And then Charlie would have gotten a completely different reception. But no, he doesn't. And the Master ultimately takes him out, and then you see that in 30. Throw this worthless servant out into the darkness where they'll be weeping and gnashing of teeth. So let's rewind, zoom back out. What are we talking about? We're talking about our relationship as Christians, as servants of Jesus, our relationship with our Master, our Savior, in the time period that we are currently living in. We have all been given different resources to help the Kingdom of God. And people ask me this all the time when it comes to evangelism. Does that mean I have to get up on Sundays and preach? Because I'm not good at that. I'm an introvert. I can't just walk up to somebody and be confrontational about my faith. Well, those of you who are introverts, let me take that burden off your shoulders. There are like six different styles of evangelism that do not require personal confrontation. If you're interested, see me after church, and I can tell you about them. Great book. But you don't have to be an extrovert to be good at serving Jesus. That's what's fantastic about this parable is, Nancy, we're not responsible for that which God has given us. We're only responsible for that which we did with it. Some of you have been given an amazing amount of wisdom and understanding. And you could put that wisdom and understanding to great use in the Kingdom, in a leadership position, or maybe counseling a young man or a young woman who's a little younger than you. I can tell you all the time, I love, and this is not meant to be offensive, I love listening to old guys talk. I really do. And I'm not going to point out anybody here. I'll just use someone from the mythical church. But let's say there was this mythical church where there was a gentleman who was a retiree, who had already raised his children, who is starting to be in the grandchild stage. You don't think as a young father, my children haven't even become teenagers yet, that there's not wisdom that can be learned, that there's not something that I can just sit down and listen to old fishing stories and old race car stories or old church stories, and eventually there's going to be some wisdom there? Absolutely. Some of you have been granted incredible financial resources in your life. You've been blessed. God has blessed you financially. Then you have a resource to put into the Kingdom. Some of you, you may be very smart, you may be very intellectual. Your understanding of God's Word is very strong. Then you have a responsibility to use that resource to help further a Kingdom agenda, to help people come to know Jesus. Some of you bake great brownies. You have a responsibility to bake brownies for church. Absolutely. You see how many brownies show up at the church often these days. It'll be hilarious. Right? I'll just let everybody know. Brownies are here. Come on up. We have all been given different things by God. That's the story of the talents. The Master handed out what He chose. And you know what? He knew you and He gave you what you needed. And He knew you and He gave you what you needed. He gave each of us our own unique set of resources. They have been custom fit for us because the Master knows His servants. He knows what we'd be good at and He even knows what we'd not be good at. The Lord knew when I was growing up I wanted to be a Broadway performer. I love acting. I love dancing. I love musicals. Like I just do. I love the art of performance. I wanted to be on Broadway. That's what I went to school for. I went to high school for the performing arts. Graduated, taught my class. I wanted to be famous. And I wanted everything that comes with being famous. I wanted the money and I wanted the socialite status and to live in downtown Manhattan and eat Chinese food at 3 o'clock in the morning. That's what I wanted with my life. I was sure that I was going to be somebody big and famous with my name in lights. Well clearly that didn't happen. And you know why? I think the Lord knew I would not deal well with the temptations that came with that life. I have weaknesses too. And I don't know that if I had followed my path for my life, if I would know the Lord as well as I do today. Because I might have fallen into one or two extra potholes that I didn't know how to climb my way out of. Because the Master knows His service. It's not just the things in our life that the Lord has given us that we should be thankful for. It's the things in our life He didn't. Because He just might have saved me from some massively crazy mistakes, knowing that I did not have the strength to see that through and live with godly integrity. So here's my question for you this morning. Number one, do you know Jesus as your Savior? If not, then the parable can't apply to you because Jesus isn't your Master. So the parable starts out, I believe Jesus is my Savior. If you can't stay in that statement, then we need to talk about that first. If you're here this morning and you have accepted the reality that Jesus died for you to offer you forgiveness, then you are already a servant. It's not like there's this middle step where I'm a Christian but I'm not really a servant. No, no, no, no. It's a one and the same. They come together. So then my question is this. What are you doing with what the Lord gave you to work with? Because there is going to come a time when the Lord comes back. And trust me, you cannot wait till the last minute to develop the things the Lord has given you. You cannot wait until 1159, right before Jesus comes back, and then try to sweep together some kind of, oh, I just shared my faith with two extra people before Jesus came back. I'm good. No. No amount of rushing is ever going to overtake simple day-by-day faithfulness. No amount of, and I look at other pastors, you know, there are also pastors who are famous in our country. We've made an art out of turning pastors into authors and authors into celebrities. I just, as much as I would love to be an author, and I do, that's one of my dreams, I would love to write a book. I still don't think that the Lord would allow me to be a really successful author because he knows that I need to stay humble. He knows that I wouldn't deal well with all that money and all that attention. I'd be too distracted from what was really important. And so he keeps me in a humble place where I'm more effective at what I do, because I'm not distracted by all that other stuff. What is it that the Lord is putting your life, and how are you using it? You don't need to have my gifts, or Pete's gifts, or Aidan's gifts, or Jason's gifts, or Don's gifts. You don't need to have our gifts. You already have your own. You already have your own resources. You already have your own place in the Kingdom. Really, the only question at the end of the parable is if Jesus came back today, would you hear a good and faithful servant? That's the sobering end to this parable. Because we don't know. Jesus could come back right now. Okay? Apparently not at that moment. But the expectation that's left in the New Testament is none of us are going to know. There's going to be a single moment when Jesus will have returned. And so since we don't know, the whole point of chapter 24, all the way forward to the text that we're looking at this morning, is you better get to work. Because if we don't know when the Lord is returning, you don't want to be caught on your snack break. You know when we're caught in the middle of binge watching seven episodes on Netflix? Jesus, I'll be there in just a minute. Okay. If you don't want to be caught doing His work, I'm sorry, I love Netflix. I like Netflix because I don't have to watch commercials. And I like it because I can only watch it when I want. What are the resources the Lord has put in your life? And how are you using them? Now here's the final thought I want to give you. I want to give credit that maybe you don't know. Maybe nobody's ever sat down with you and helped you discover what your spiritual gifts are. Or what part of your life God has given you to use. Because I know that could be kind of confusing. So here's the other thing I want to say. If you would like to sit down and have a very honest, open conversation and go, I really don't know what God wants me to do. That's my job. That's what I'm here for. There's a Starbucks around the corner. We can go and sit and in a very non-descript atmosphere have a real conversation about how can you engage in the work of ministry. Oh, bring it on. They got mocha for days. We all need to be able to be honest and open with ourselves, with the other members of our church family, and find out what are the resources God has put in our lives and how can we use them. So this is what I'd like to ask. Pete and Beth, you're going to lead us in our closing song. And if you would like to do several things. Number one, this parable starts with you got to know Jesus. If you're not sure that you've made that decision, just come up here and talk to me. I'm not going to embarrass you in any way. Also, if you would like to set an appointment where we can get together and have a one-on-one conversation about how can I get involved in growing in my faith, come up here, let's sit down, let's pick a time, and let's go to work. Because that's what I'm here for is to serve you.