Well, good morning. Welcome to Readswood. If I did not get a chance to greet you, my name is Bill, and I will have the privilege of speaking with you this morning. We are in the middle of a series entitled, End of Days, What Does the Bible Say About the End of the World? And we've been going through this for a few weeks now, trying to understand how the Bible describes the end of the world. And here's the key thought that really is the thread running through this series. The event or the end of the world is a series of events. I've said this every single week because if this is the only thing anyone learns from this series, you're going to get it. That the Bible doesn't describe the end of the world as a single flash in the pan moment, as a single apocalyptic event, whether it be a storm or a meteor or whatever, there is a series of events that play out over a significant amount of time. And that is in this series of events that we've been walking through. So we talked about the rapture and what that means. The rapture being caught up. We talked about the tribulation and what's going to happen there. Then we talked about Christ's second coming and what's going to happen there. And the title of this morning's message is, The End of Days. It's okay. The title of this morning's message, I do know it. It doesn't have to just be up on the screen. It's entitled, The End of Days, The Final Judgments. So where are we in the story? Mr. Don, we are now at the very end of what we call eternity future, meaning in God's view, something that hasn't happened yet, eternity future. The rapture has happened, which means the Church of Jesus Christ has been collected off of the earth. Then the tribulation happened, seven years, some very bad things. Then Christ has returned and He has ruled for a thousand years. We call that the millennial kingdom or the earthly kingdom. And then during that thousand years, Satan is bound and not allowed to have freedom on the earth. Then at the end of Christ's thousand-year reign, Satan is released. And then we come to the final judgments today. Now at the very beginning of this series, we talked about what is the proper way to interpret it. Remember we talked about building a puzzle and that there are four sides. You always build the outside first. And those are the four Old Testament promises. Can someone name one of them? The New Covenant. Yep. I heard Abrahamic Covenant over there. That's two of them. Palestinian Covenant and Davidic Covenant. The Abrahamic Covenant, the Palestinian Covenant, the Davidic Covenant, and the New Covenant. And those four together create our framework. And this morning we're going to see what happens next. So this is entitled, The Final Judgments. The next thing I need you to know about final judgments is that it's pluralized. It's not one final judgment, but in fact, three separate and distinct elements within what we call the final judgment. So there are really three separate judgments that are pronounced. And that's what we're going to examine this morning. So let's take a look at the first of them. And this is here. Satan and his angels are judged. Remember that during the tribulation, they had a lot of work to do. And the Antichrist and he had work to do. Then when the Lord comes back at his second coming, Satan and all of his angels are bound for the thousand years that Jesus reigns on earth. But then they are loosed again. And then he's go out and deceive the nations. Gog Magog. The battle of actual Armageddon. And it's not until this moment that Satan and the fallen angels are actually judged. This comes from Revelation chapter 20 verse 10. This is the New Living Translation. Then the devil, who had deceived them, was thrown into the fiery lake of burning sulfur, joining the beast and the false prophet. There they will be tormented day and night, forever and ever. It is not until this moment of eternity future that Satan and his angels are finally cast into hell. That's why I try to explain to people, number one, hell was never designed for human consumption. Mr. Josh, we were never designed to go there. Hell was always designed as punishment for the devil and his angels. Sadly, because of sinful rebellion, people now will get to partake in this. But we were never designed originally. This is the moment. So think about all that we've talked about. During, of course, the church age or the age of the church in which we live now, Satan has free reign on the earth. Then during the tribulation, he still has free reign. Then during the millennial kingdom, he's bound, but not in hell. He's not thrown there eternally. He's just bound for that time period. It's not until here that Satan is fully defeated. If you go all the way back to the story in the Garden of Eden with Adam and Eve, the very first reference to Christ in the Scriptures is found in Eden. It's called the Proto-Evangelum. And it's a promise from God to Eve that said, The servant will strike. There will come one from your number. A certain will strike his heel and he will crush his head. This is really the final moment of defeat for the devil and his angels. It is here that it's do not pass go, do not collect $200, go directly to jail and stay there. This is the moment when Satan and his angels are judged. Just remember that Satan has freedom both before and after the thousand-year millennial reign of Christ. So now let's take a look at the second thing that is judged. This is humanity is judged. So first the devil and his angels are judged. Now we're going to stay in Revelation 20. Humanity is judged. This is the big one that most people think about when we talk about judgment. This is Revelation chapter 20 verses 11 through 15. This is also in the New Living Translation. It says this, And I saw a great white throne and the one sitting on it. The earth and sky fled from his presence, but they found no place to hide. I saw the dead, both great and small, standing before God's throne. And the books were opened, including the book of life. And the dead were judged according to what they had done, as recorded in the books. The sea gave up its dead, and death and the grave gave up their dead. And all were judged according to their deeds. Then death and the grave were thrown into the lake of fire. This lake of fire is the second death. And anyone whose name is not found recorded in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire. Now, Mr. Zach, can you take me back one slide, please? This is what is commonly referred to as the great white throne judgment. So if you're ever reading in theological circles or you're reading about end times, this moment is the great white throne judgment. We've already talked about the Bema judgment. We talked about the sheep and goat judgment. Now we've talked about Satan and his angels being judged. This is the big one. This is the one when we think about the hell-no-hell judgment. This is really it. This is the great white throne judgment. And it gets its name, obviously, from that first sentence you see right there from Revelation. And I saw a great white throne and the one sitting on it. This is God the Father. God the Creator in Genesis is the God the Judge, the Father in Revelation. This is Him. The earth and sky fled from His presence, but they found no place to hide. Oftentimes in the Hebrew Scriptures and the New Testament, God's glory is so awesome. And I think thank you, or not so much thank you, to the 80s for really ruining that word for us. The word, this is so awesome. This word awesome is supposed to communicate a temporal amount of fear. We maybe say reverent. If I was afraid of God's authority, God's glory, God's presence, then I would be reverent in it. And so the word awesome really does, I mean, I was awestruck. It's that same idea. There should be a healthy amount of not fear of hurt or pain, but fear of just how great it is in comparison to myself. This is how great God's glory, how awesome, how inspiring the very presence of God is. That the earth and sky fled from His presence, but found nowhere to hide. I saw the dead, both great and small, standing before God's throne. And the books were opened, including the Book of Life. And the dead were judged according to what they had done as recorded in the books. Now, you can take me forward, but I'm going to explain this for a minute. If we're trying to keep track, those of you who like to take notes, and we're trying to keep track of what has happened throughout this process we've talked about. At the rapture, the Church of Jesus Christ was raptured from the earth and joined with all of the previous members of the Church of Jesus Christ who had already died. So believers were extracted. At the beginning of the tribulation, evangelists are still doing their job. More people got saved during the tribulation. Then we had the sheep and goat judgment. And all who were alive at that time, at the beginning of the millennial reign of Christ, were judged. This moment here, look at this, the sea gave up its dead and the death gave up their dead. And all were judged. This is the moment where the rest of humanity is judged. So think about everybody who's lived and died previously. They were either collected in the rapture. Those who were alive during the tribulation were judged during the sheep and goat judgment. Here at this moment, this is everybody else. Living or dead, this is all the rest of humanity is now judged according to their deeds. Death and the grave were thrown into the lake of fire. Oftentimes you'll see in the Scriptures wisdom, death, grave, even grace can be personified. And sort of personified into a person to describe it. We see that here. And the lake of fire is considered the second death. Why? Because even those who have died and passed on still experience this. This is it. This is eternal separation from God. It is the absolute worst fate imaginable. Eternity, devoid of the love of God. That in and of itself is horrendous. Let alone everything else that's going to happen here. So first we saw Satan and his angels are judged. Second now we see all of humanity is judged. Take a look at the third one. Oh, no, excuse me, we're going to talk about this first. There is no second chance at the end. I need to hit this because there's a lot of our modern day worldviews. There's a lot of pluralism, relativism. People want to say, well, you know, Jesus is really going to give us one last chance after we die. It's just not in the Bible that way. I can't stand here and claim to speak the words of God and then add to the scriptures. I've got to teach them the way they are. The way they are is your eternal destiny is fixed and locked. The GPS is programmed and it is unchangeable when your life on this earth is over. Let's take a look at Luke chapter 6 verses 19 through 31. It's somewhat of a long passage, but just hang with me. Take a look at what we have here in Luke 6. Jesus says, There was a certain rich man who was splendidly clothed in purple and fine linen, who lived each day in luxury. At his gate lay a poor man named Lazarus, who was covered with sores. As Lazarus lay there longing for scraps from the rich man's table, the dogs would come and lick his open sores. Finally, the poor man died and was carried by the angels to be with Abraham. The rich man also died and was buried, and his soul went to the place of the dead. There in torment he saw Abraham in the far distance with Lazarus at his side. The rich man shouted, Father Abraham, have some pity. Send Lazarus over here to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue. I am in anguish in these flames. But Abraham said to him, Son, remember that during your lifetime you had everything you wanted, and Lazarus had nothing. So now he is here being comforted and you are in anguish. And besides, there is a great chasm separating us. No one can cross over to you from here, and no one can cross over to us from there. Then the rich man said, Please, Father Abraham, at least send him to my father's home, for I have five brothers and I want him to warn them so they don't end up in this place of torment. But Abraham said, Moses and the prophets have warned them. Your brothers can read what they wrote. The rich man replied, No, Father Abraham, but if someone is sent to them from the dead, they will repent of their sins and turn to God. But Abraham said, If they won't listen to Moses and the prophets, they won't be persuaded even if someone rises from the dead. Now, Mr. Zach, we are going to need to go back to the very beginning of that passage. There are some who will say that Jesus is speaking allegorically here. Allegorically means symbolically. He's not being literal, he's being figurative. I will say that I don't agree with that because oftentimes, it will say, and he spoke this parable. Think about the Good Samaritan. Think about the parable of the Sower. There's nothing here in this text, you can look around it, there's nothing in this text that would allude to the idea that Jesus is not giving us a glimpse of the afterlife. So, my interpretation of this text is based on the fact, I believe Jesus is, Kyle, I believe he's literally giving us a glimpse into the world, the next life that lies for us ahead. There was a certain rich man, and of course, Luke also clearly sets up this massive dichotomy here. He tells us that the first guy is rich, clothed in purple and fine linen. You have to understand that in that day, any clothing that was dyed a color, specifically purple, was very expensive. Luke is lavishing on the idea of how blessed that this man is. And at his gates lay a poor man named Lazarus, covered in sores. Notice the rich man lives in luxury, the poor man lives outside at the very edges of the rich man's home. As far as Lazarus lay there, and then he longed for scraps, whereas the other man had everything, and the dogs would come and lick his open sores, he didn't even have his own health. Luke has clearly set up here the largest of dichotomies. Someone who is wealthy, who has all they would ever need, and lives in the lap of luxury, and someone who is destitute, who has nothing. Now the first thing you have to understand is, money does not send you to hell, and being poor does not send you to heaven. So let's dispense with that idea first. We'll get the prosperity gospel and the poverty gospel both shot down with one bullet. Money does not determine your eternity. The presence of it, or the absence of it, has nothing to do with your eternity. But I will say this, it has everything to do with your stewardship. How you do what you do with what God has given you, you will be judged on. But God does not say, I loan it because you have three times the amount of money you have in your checking account than my checking account. I'm allowed to send more than you because you're richer. So don't dispel the idea. He's setting up a dichotomy, but the dichotomy has really nothing to do. The truth is, the rich man didn't need Jesus because he had all he could afford. That's why it says it's easier for a rich man to come to the God than camel through the eye of a needle. Sometimes wealth can be a distraction from the desperation we need Jesus. So let's go forward again. The rich man, so both men died, now they're both carried into eternity. One in the presence of Abraham, i.e. Paradise. The other in a place of torment, i.e. Hades. And then we have a conversation. The rich man, now in torment, calls to Abraham. Abraham, I have some pity. Send Lazarus over here and he's asking for help. Go forward one more. And Abraham's son, remember in your lifetime, now he's describing the fact that the life you lived on this earth directly affected your eternal destiny. The life you lived on this earth directly affected your eternal destiny. The rich man had all he needed. He didn't have to trust God because all he had to do was trust his checkbook. He didn't have to pray earnestly that God would move because I don't know, he could just swipe for it. Why do we need desperation in prayer? Because we need to rely more on God than we do on money. And I'm preaching myself on that one. Sometimes it's just so much easier just to go to Walmart and just buy whatever I need rather than first ask God, God, do I really need that before I go spend that money on it? But that's a whole other thing. And then what I want you to see here is three lines from the bottom. There is a great chasm separating us. No one can cross over to you from here and no one can cross over to us from there. At the moment of your passing from this life to the next, your eternal destiny will not only be locked but there is no second chance. Because I believe Jesus is speaking literally about the afterlife. There is no second chance. Take me forward one more, sir. Now here's something I find very interesting. Please, Father, please send him to my father's home for I have five brothers. Even in the afterlife, the rich man knew who his family was and had concern for them but had no way to tell them. In my opinion, and this is my opinion, I think that's part of the torment. That's part of the torment is we remember those we love and we are unable to warn them. But Abraham said, Moses and the prophets have warned them. I love that, Mark. Bro, it was written down. They can go read it for they self. I just love how matter of fact Jesus is here. Listen, they had Moses and the prophets. They want to know they could have read about it. But sometimes you get so distracted by spending your wealth that spending time reading what God wrote seems to be less important. Take me forward again. Again, another sermon I don't have time for. And then he says, look at this. He says, no, no, no, no, no. I know that I'm going to paraphrase this. OK, is that OK, Zach? Can I give you the new international bill version? The rich man says to Jesus, no, no, no, Jesus, Abraham, you don't understand. I understand they have the Bible, but they're not really going to listen to it. So if you would at least send someone who appeared from the dead, that would shock them into reality. And Abraham says, listen, if they don't have the faith to read the book, even someone appearing from the dead is not going to be understood correctly. It's right. Can I borrow that for just a second? Sometimes I feel bad because I only ever bring my iPad. This is all you ever needed. This is all ever needed to describe eternity, eternal security, God's grace, God's forgiveness, God's awesome and amazing sovereignty. All of it's contained in this amazing spirit-born document. This is all you need to understand all of life. And think about this. This life is, I believe it's one theologian said, Mr. Pete, this life is merely the audition to get us to the next. That's what the quote was, I got it right? This life is the audition to get your eternal life is going to be way longer than your earthly life. Have you thought about that? Like my grandmama, she's 87 and still loves Jesus and still reads her Bible every day. And her life in eternity is going to, I mean, our life on this earth, the scripture says, is like a mist. Here one moment and go on the next. In comparison to our next life. Don't waste the opportunity that this life gives you because there is no second chance. Let's go forward again. Then finally, here's the third thing that's judged. Satan and his demons is judged. All of humanity is judged. And finally, creation itself is judged. Now, before you guys can turn there, 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 5 and 7. But before we go there, I just want to describe what happened. Now we've got to jump, remember we talked about it, we've got to go all the way back to Genesis to really understand Revelation. What happened in the beginning of Genesis when sin entered the world? Sin entered the world through Adam and Eve. But it was not only Adam and Eve who were scarred by the presence of sin. Adam was given certain punishments. Eve was given certain punishments. The animals changed their relationships to one another. And so did the planet itself. Think, you can go back there. I believe it's Genesis chapter 4. The earth itself was cursed. And all of a sudden thorns and thistles. So the presence of sin is so destructive. It is so strong. It is so immutable that the planet itself, the very earth beneath our feet, has been warped by the power of sin. And that sin in the earth, in the planet itself, still has to be judged. Take a look at 2 Peter 3, 5 through 7. God made the heavens long time ago by the word of His command, and He brought the earth out from water and surrounded it with water. Have you guys talked about that on Sunday morning? Yeah, okay. Alright. Then He used water to destroy the ancient world with a mighty flood. What story is that? Noah. The story of Noah and the flood. And then by the same word, the present heavens and earth have been stored up for fire. Underline, circle, long press, and highlight. That's the line right there. See, let's go back to the Noic covenant. The promise that God made Noah. After the flood was over, what did God say to Noah? He would never what? Yes, you had it. You had it. I will never destroy the earth again with water. Notice He didn't say, I'm not going to destroy this joker because you already messed it up. He said, I will never destroy it again with water. So that leaves God, His entire creative ability to decide how to deal with the sin that is now resident within the planet beneath our feet. Even the earth that we know today is a product of sin. The plants that we see, the animals that we see, pales in comparison to what God had designed for humanity in Eden. I can't even tell you what that would look like because I've only lived in the sinful world. I've only ever experienced, science itself only can study the sinful planet, not the divine one that we were designed to have. All we can do is observe what we have learned about God's creation and remember that what we observe is still creation marred by sin, not the original perfect creation. So first God creates, pulls it out of water, He uses water in the story of Noah, and then the present heavens and earth have been stored up for fire. They are being kept for the day of judgment when ungodly people will be destroyed. Satan and his angels are judged, all of humanity is judged, and then the planet itself is judged and destroyed because of sin. Don't give in to the 21st century cultural lie that sin is just a three-letter word. Sin is so horrible that the planet itself will be destroyed because of sin. The earth, the entire planet on which we live, that we try to send nice little rockets up into space, the planet itself will be destroyed because of sin. Now take me to my last step because that's definitely not where we want to end a sermon on, sure. A new creation is made, and there's the minor fall and here's the major lift bringing us to the end. A new creation is made. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the old heaven and the old earth had disappeared, and the sea was also gone, and I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven like a beautifully dressed bride for her husband. At the final judgments, Satan is judged, humanity is judged, the planet is judged, and then God puts on his drafting hat one more time, and he creates the new heaven and the new earth. And then Jerusalem, and again, I see Jerusalem as a literal place with a literal people and a literal God, who has a literal kingdom, then descends onto the new earth. So a lot of people want to say, oh, we're going to spend eternity with God in heaven. Mark, that's really not accurate. We're going to spend eternity with God on the new earth. After this earth goes away and the new earth is created, we will actually be on that new earth. Now next week we're going to close out the series with what does the new earth look like? What can Scripture give us as an idea of what could be? Because again, I haven't been there yet. There's not a passport to the new earth, because if there was, no one would come back. No one would come back to the world marred by sin, when you could live in the perfect creation as God had intended it. So what happens here? Take me out, I'm going to talk a slide. What happens in the final judgment? I know this is a massive story and it takes all this time to play out. Rapture, Christians are gone. Tribulation, God pours out his wrath in order to draw Israel to him. Jesus returns at the second coming. Queue a millennial kingdom, a thousand years where Jesus reigns on the earth and Satan is bound. At the end of the millennial kingdom, Satan is released. He gathers together armies, they attack Jerusalem. God throws a drop down and he protects his people. Then the final judgment, Satan and the angels are cast into the lake of fire. All of humanity is judged at the great white throne judgment. Or I really should say, all of humanity who hasn't been judged yet. Because we've had the bemah judgment, we've had the sheep and goat judgment. There have been several things leading up to it, but the great white throne, that's the final. And then ultimately this planet itself is judged because of the effects of sin. And then God wipes this all away and he makes a new heaven and a new earth that we will live with him forever. And that's where we're going to pick it up next week. But I can't in good conscience tell you the good part of the story and not tell you that if you don't know Jesus, you won't be there. Because as we looked at in the middle of the message, there is no second chance. There is no better day to come to Jesus than today. There is no, because let me say it another way, there is no better day to guarantee the placement of your eternity than today. Because there's not another day promised. We could walk out in the parking lot today and a tree could fall over. Or the Lord could come back and then we don't have to be here for the rest of it. So where are you at this morning? Where are you at this morning in your faith walk with God? And here, for those of you who usually ignore this part of the message because you're like, I've done been known Jesus. My very well grammatical self, right? Let me say this. Scripture does say that there are several people who when we get to eternity, they'll say, but Lord, we did this in your name. I did that in your name. And he says, depart from me for I never knew you. So my question for those of you who are the veteran saints in the room, for those of you who are the veteran Christians, I'm not asking you, do you know Jesus? I'm asking how well does he know you? Because your eternity still hangs on that too. It's not just knowing about Jesus. It's knowing him, having intimacy with him, being in relationship with him and the rest of God's people.