Good morning everyone and welcome to Readswood. My name is Dr. Bill. Please don't confuse me with Dr. Phil. He's the guy that has a talk show. I'm the guy that gets to preach a sermon. So welcome to Readswood. If I did not get a chance to greet you this morning, my name is Bill and I'm the pastor. And we're starting a...yeah, this is definitely a picture moment for sure. Because this is...no one should ever trust me in this outfit. Please don't ever do that. I decided to dress up this morning because I wanted to make a point. We're starting a brand new sermon series entitled, Habits for Health. And I thought in order to speak about health, maybe if I dressed as a health care professional, it might help you to engage in the topic a little more. So I went out and I bought myself a little costume. And hopefully as we progress through this series and we talk about the things that involve our spiritual health, if I look more like somebody who talks about your physical health, then that might help. So as Zach pointed out, please do me a favor, take out your phones. You can post a selfie, post to Instagram. You can make fun of me. That is absolutely okay. I will try to jump in on your next doctor's appointment if I don't like your comments. So just be aware that I now own all of this. And I may show up at your next doctor's appointment. But we're starting a brand new series entitled, Habits for Health. And as you can see, going around my hexagonal geogram, is each one of those icons represents a week in this series. But before we get into that, the first thing I want to ask you is, what is a habit? What is a habit when you break it down to its simple definition? Here's the definition of a habit according to the dictionary. An acquired behavior regularly followed until it becomes almost involuntary. And Josh, that word involuntary is probably the most important word in the idea of a habit. Because John, if you have to remind yourself to do something, guess what? It's not a habit. Think about all the bad habits that people have. Somebody give me a bad habit. Anyone? Biting your fingernails. That's bad? I thought they were nutritious. All right. Biting your fingernails can be a bad habit. Something else. What's a bad habit people struggle to quit? Smoking. Absolutely. Bad habit that people have a difficulty breaking that habit because it's so involuntary, you're not always cognizant of doing. Any other bad habits? Speeding. I'd love you. Cursing. I can totally understand that one. What else? Other bad habits? Taking drugs. That'd be quick. All right. Now let's put the shoe on the other foot. What's a good habit? Exercise. So you have to remind yourself to exercise. Some of you are, I love that, some people are going, uh-huh, I've got to remind myself all day, it still don't happen. I exercise right after I have Oreos. An acquired behavior regularly followed until it becomes almost involuntary. What I want to submit to you this morning is that we all have habits. Some of them are good. And probably some of them are bad. But Mr. Pete, how do we define the difference between a good habit and a bad habit? How would you define the difference between a good habit and a bad habit? Landing on the wheels and not on the bottom of the plane would be a great habit for you. For those of you who don't know, he flies airplanes for a living. So hopefully by now landing on the wheels has become a habit. If not, you're retiring soon, so thankfully it won't be much of a problem. Here's what I would like to submit to you this morning. We call habits bad when their effectual outcome on our daily life is negative. Somebody brought up the idea of smoking as a bad habit, something that's difficult to kick. Because the eventual outcome or the full effect of that habit on your life equals a net negative. A good habit, somebody mentioned, exercise. Exercise is a great habit. A good habit is something that the effectual outcome of your life is a net positive. If you have a habit of eating well, that's a good habit. If you have a habit of exercising, that's a good habit. I've even heard it said that if you have a habit of journaling or writing down the things that happen to you, either on a daily or weekly basis, that journaling is a very therapeutic and positive habit. So as we talk about habits over the next six weeks, I want you to embrace the reality that A, you have habits, and B, the effect on your life determines whether that habit is good or bad. Ms. Michelle, let's slide one forward. Here's the key thought that I would like you to have in your mind this morning and for the next six weeks. My habits determine my health. Please say that with me. My habits determine my health. Say that again. My habits determine my health. Your habits for your spiritual life, the things that you do that are involuntary, that you don't have to remind yourself to do, have a direct result on your spiritual health, whether they are good or they are bad. So we define a habit by its effectual outcome on your life. So first we have to decide what your habits are, and then, Don, we've got to decide, are those habits a net gain or a net loss for my spiritual life? And if they are a net gain, then I can qualify them as good habits. But, Zach, if they're a net loss, then I can qualify them as bad habits. Does everybody understand that's our base this morning? And for the next six weeks, that's where we're going to be. We have habits. Some are good, some are bad, but we define them by their end. Now say it one more time. My habits determine my health. Now, this morning for the first message of this series, we're going to look at the habit of prayer. I think everyone in the room would agree that prayer is a necessary part of the Christian life. I think even non-believers would agree that people who go to church pray more than people who don't go to church. I think that's a fair statement. In our society, we generally think of prayer as something that believers do. But here's my question for you this morning. Do you have a habit of prayer? Do you pray in such a way that it is involuntary, or do you have to remind yourself to pray? If you have to remind yourself, then, Jason, it's not a habit yet. It doesn't mean it can't become a habit. It doesn't mean that you can't make it into a habit. But if you're sitting here this morning, answer for yourself. Don't elbow your neighbor. Do you have to remind yourself to spend time in prayer every day? If the answer to that question is yes, then you do not have a habit of prayer. You have prayer. But we haven't really made it to the habit stage yet. What I would like to present to you this morning is why having a habit of prayer is beneficial for your spiritual life. Let's take a look at the first point this morning. Prayer protects us from temptation. Matthew 26, verse 41, this is the New International Version. Jesus is speaking, Watch and pray, so you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. I think the latter part of that verse is a very popular phrase today. To give you a little background, I don't know what to do with myself, Josh. I don't have my pocket here that I can stick my thumb in. So if you see me doing this, I don't have an itch. It's that I have a habit of putting my hand in my pocket when I speak. This is coming from the end of the Gospel of Matthew. Jesus is in the Garden of Gethsemane. He is about to be betrayed by Judas. It is the night of his betrayal. He is praying in the garden, and his disciples are snoozing. He comes to them and wakes them up. He says, Watch and pray, so you will not fall into temptation. Why does he say this? Because in the next few moments, Judas is about to lead an army of both Jewish soldiers and Roman soldiers to arrest the Savior. At that moment, they are going to be tempted. Miss Kayla, they are going to be tempted to fall away from their faith. He is the promised Messiah. He is supposed to be the King of Israel. How can he get arrested and tried? Of course, they don't realize what Jesus knows, that he will be crucified. They don't know any of that. Jesus is trying to instill in them the habit to watch and pray for the purpose that you will not fall into temptation. Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. Then he even gives us an additional detail here. Why? Because the Spirit is willing in the flesh this week. How many people would agree that prayer is a good thing? Almost every one of us. How many people would agree that I have to remind myself sometimes to spend time in prayer? I will agree to that. I will. I will willingly admit that when I get up, sometimes my first thought is coffee, not Jesus. Is it okay to say in church? Sometimes my first thought is, wait, do I have any more K-cups left? Do I have any half and half? Then I get downstairs and I will only grab my coffee and my Bible. And then, Brian, I have that traditional American quiet time with me, Jesus, and Folgers. Do we have a habit of prayer? Has it become something that is involuntary? It is so important because of this. We still live in the same struggle that Jesus' disciples did. We live in the struggle between our flesh that desires the things of sin and the Spirit of God within us that desires the things of holiness. And if you do not develop a consistent habit, an involuntary time of prayer, then you are not feeding the part of you that needs to fight off temptation. Let me phrase it another way. There's a Native American proverb that goes something like this. Mr. Zach, you're a young warrior, and you are coming up in your tribe, and you go to the shaman or the priest of your village, and you say to him, Pete, you're going to be the shaman in this story because you're right there. So, Zach, you say to Pete, Mr. Pete, I want the wisdom of God that you have. I want to know the things that you know. How did you become such a powerful man? How did you become so wise? And Pete turns to Zach, and he says, Zach, it's very simple. Within every man there are two ravenous wolves. Drop the mic and walk off. This is Pete's advice. Within every man there are two ravenous wolves. Go and learn what this means. And so, Zach, you go, oh, great, and you spend the rest of the day, and you don't get it. And you spend the rest of the next day, and the next day, and an entire week goes by, and you are just confounded by the statement that Pete has given you. Within every man there are two ravenous wolves. And you come back to him a week later, and you say, Pete, I don't understand what you are trying to tell me. How do I become as wise as you? How do I become as committed to God as you are? And he said, I told you, within every man there are two ravenous wolves. And Zach replies, I know that. But how do I make the one I want to win, win? And Pete looks at me and goes, it's so simple. Feed one and starve the other. Now, obviously, the wisdom there is, the more you invest in your spiritual life and you starve your fleshly life, the stronger the spirit within you becomes. And you are able to watch and pray so that you are able to not fall into temptation because you recognize the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak. You must make your spirit strong enough that it makes your decisions for you. And you know what? When you start making godly decisions in your life, it's going to cost you. It may cost you some comfort. It may cost you some money. It may cost you some reputation. It may cost you some embarrassment. But let me ask you this. When you begin to make godly decisions, does it really matter how much the earthly cost is? Because the heavenly reward is always greater. You have to have a habit of prayer. Now, the rest of our sermon this morning is going to come from one passage. It comes from Matthew chapter 6. We are going to look at verses 5 through 13. Matthew chapter 6, verses 5 through 13. And I have it here for you on the screen in the NLT, which is the New Living Translation. So this is Matthew 6, and I'm going to begin reading in verse 5. This is also the direct words of Jesus from the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus says, When you pray, don't be like the hypocrites who love to pray publicly on the street corners and in the synagogues where everyone can see them. I tell you the truth, that is all the reward they will ever get. But when you pray, go by yourself. Shut the door behind you and pray to your Father in private. Then your Father who sees everything will reward you. When you pray, don't babble on and on as people of other religions do. They think their prayers are answered merely by repeating their words again and again. Don't be like them, for your Father knows exactly what you need before you ask Him. Pray like this. Our Father in heaven, may your name be kept holy. May your kingdom come soon. May your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today the food we need and forgive our sins as we have forgiven those who sin against us. And don't let us yield to temptation, but rescue us from the evil one. Now the latter part of that passage may be very familiar. It's what we call the Lord's Prayer. Now what I want to do is break what we just read, these six verses down, and I want to look at them. So here's my next point. Jesus teaches four things about prayer that have to be in your habit. First, prayer is between you and God. That may seem like an obvious point, but I want to make sure we start with a really solid foundation. Mr. Aden, prayer is between you and our Heavenly Father. Take a look at the first few verses here. When you pray, stop. Do you notice that before the comma there's an expectation? That you're going to pray. Jesus said, when you pray. Not if you pray. Not if you happen to get around to it. Not if you happen to have time left in your ever so busy schedule. Could you make some time for prayer? He said, when you pray. When you pray. There is an expectation on the part of the Savior that prayer is a habit of the spiritually strong. When you pray, and he gives two warnings. The first, don't be like the hypocrites who love to pray publicly on the street corners and in the synagogues where everyone can see them. Now this may come as a surprise to some of you, but there are some people who are so religious that they love other people seeing how religious they are. I know none of that happens in our church today, but back in Jesus' day there was a whole group of people that were so convinced that they were more spiritual. So convinced that they were holier and greater and more spiritual and cleaner and everything else-er. That they enjoyed praying in public. They enjoyed praying on the street corners. So that everybody else could see, I am so much more godly than you. And that was the point of their public prayer. Now, some have taken this verse to mean, Mr. Pete, that we should not have public prayer in church. I absolutely think that is the wrong application here. Jesus is pointing out the hypocrisy of the heart, not the publicity of the act itself. There is nothing wrong with the Christian church coming together and corporately bringing our needs before God. Because what's the heart behind that? That we are together joining in our faith to lift up those who need God's power. So don't misapply this verse and think, it's not okay for me to pray in church. It's not okay for me to give my prayer requests on my connection card. That would be incorrect. Don't let the enemy win there. But if you're in time, let me say it this way. If the only time you pray is when someone else is watching, you're a hypocrite. If the only time you pray is when someone else is watching, then you are these people. The purpose of their prayer was not to actually commune with the Father. The purpose of their prayer is in the end of line three, where everyone can see them. And here's the problem with that kind of prayer. I tell you the truth, that is all the reward they will ever get. When you begin a habit of prayer with the need for other human beings to see you, then your prayer really isn't about God, it's about you. It's about you being seen. It's about you being respected. It's about you being honored. It's about you being better. Prayer is between you and God for a reason. Because when you put you and God on the scale, who's the better one? God. Not me. I am nothing. He is everything. Now I will go ahead and admit to you a little sidebar here, Kyle. I find it very difficult to pray in church. Not because I have a problem praying out loud, but because as the pastor, there is this unsaid and uncommunicated pressure that my prayers are supposed to be cooler than everyone else's. That my prayers are supposed to be more theological. That the words I use are supposed to be like somehow bigger, better, smarter, I don't know, something. And it's not our church. It's just, Brian, can I get a little bit of witness here? You know what I mean, right? As soon as you get together, and it happens in my family all the time. All the time. When my family gets together, are you always the one that's asked to pray over the food? Every time my family gets together, I don't care if it's just my aunts, my uncles, or it's the whole kitten caboodle, all 26 of us, cousins, grand cousins, everybody. They're like, who's going to pray for dinner? And obviously everybody goes, Bill. And I turn to my family and I go, I pray for a living. Somebody else talk to Jesus. There is this pressure that I feel, and I will willingly admit it. When I pray in church, I recognize that I'm trying to be an example of prayer. But when I pray by myself, like, it's just me. It's just ADHD Bill with no coffee. Jesus, help me this morning. It's tough. Like, I don't have these big, long, theological, $13 words in my prayers. Sometimes it's just, Jesus, help me. And that's okay. Don't get the idea that prayer has to be about these big theological words, because you know what? Why are you using those words? So other people go, wow, I need to go look that word up. He used transubstantiation in prayer. Or, no, no, my favorite is these pastors who you can tell their prayer was pre-thought because it rhymes. Have you ever seen that? Dear Lord, we thank you for your grace. God, I thank you for the pace. And they just go on and on. And it's like, dude, for real? Come on, this is not a sermon. Just talk to God. Be legit. Please, just break it down. Don't be like the hypocrites who need to be seen. And then he gives us an example. But when you pray, go away by yourself. Shut the door behind you and pray to your Father in private. Do we really think that if we pray in private, God does not hear us? That's a problem, isn't it? Susanna, what if God didn't hear me? Like, I've got to be in public for him to hear me? That sounds like a really non-omniscient God to me. The point of praying in private, the point of having that prayer closet, if you will, or that prayer spot, mine is my car. When I get into my car, my car is when I'm alone, that's my prayer closet. Because nobody knows if I'm talking to God or I'm talking on my Bluetooth, so I can talk as much as I want and nobody thinks I'm crazy. That's my prayer closet. Every time my hands hit the wheel, it's, dear Jesus, I love you. Have everybody else know how to use turn signals today. That's the opening for my prayer. Here's my second point. Thank you, ma'am. Prayer is not about the amount or the repetition of the words used. Now, I do not mean to step on anybody's toes. There are certain denominations that my wife and I have been a part of, where there are like these tag phrases that people use. Have you ever heard about this? People begin to pray. Let me see if I can give you a good example. A church I worked at, there was a deacon, and it was in Florida. It's not here. I'm not pointing anybody else out. But he had this specific way of praying. And it was always, Lord God, Lord God, we come before you this morning, Lord God, and we're so thankful, Lord God, for your grace, Lord God, your mercy, Lord God, your love. Lord God, we are so thankful. Do you hear that drone? It's like a religious version of um. He's not really trying to address the Lord God through every sentence. It's a habit that had been ingrained into him from whoever really taught him how to pray that this statement made my prayer more spiritual. Lord God, I thank you, Lord God, for your grace, Lord God, your love, Lord God. I mean, it sounds good. You can just keep ripping it, and it sounds like a really important prayer. But here's my question. Does that additive make prayer more effective? It does. It just makes it longer. All I'm, and it's just repetition. It does not add to the value of prayer. Now, is it bad? Is it bad to remind yourself that the Lord God is the Sovereign, Almighty Creator of the universe, and I am but a speck? No. That's not a bad thing to be reminded of. Anytime you need to be reminded of that, call me. I'll tell you. You're a speck. He's gone. But see, in Jesus' day, there were certain pagan sects and certain humanistic religions that believed that there were these words that you could repeat, the chants, and these words themselves contained spiritual power, almost like a spell, if you will, that God is obligated to give me an answer to my prayer because I said, supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, five times in my prayer. So He is required to give me five times the answer because I used the magic code word of the day. That sounds silly when I say it like that, doesn't it? But how many times have you seen Christians, well-meaning Christians, and this man that I'm thinking of, I've had food at his table with his wife and his kids, and I know he loves Jesus. He's a great friend. But he was trained to pray that way in the school of ministry he came from. He was trained to pray that title in every sentence. And at the time, I really wasn't in a position, to be honest, I wasn't really brave enough to talk to him about it and go, dude, why do you do that? Like, I wasn't raised that way. I just wasn't. Actually, I really never had somebody sit down and teach me how to develop a prayer life. I had to kind of just like muddle through it, blind leading the blind on my own, try to follow the word of God, try to read Jesus' example, and try to not insult my Lord when I try to approach Him in the throne of grace. Don't babble on as the people of other religions do. They think their prayers are answered merely by repeating words again and again. And then here in the end, look how he shows it up. Don't be like them, for your Heavenly Father knows exactly what you need before you ask. Zach, if you were to stand up right now and pray, does God know what you're going to say? You sure? Like you're totally sure? Final answer? Okay. Then does it matter how many times you say it if He already knew what you were going to say? Good point. You don't have to repeat it. Why? Because God is omniscient. You cannot believe in a God who knows all, who has to be reminded five times in a prayer what you said. Like the two are really antithetical. They don't go together. If you're going to develop a positive habit of prayer, it cannot be about the amount of words you pray, the size of words, the expansiveness of the words, the theological value of the words. It matters the heart that is speaking to God. Take a look at the next one. Prayer should put God and His holiness first. Here we get into Jesus' famous example of prayer. Pray like this. Now before we break this text down, let me make a point here. Jesus did not give this example in the Sermon on the Mount for it to become a chant. When we read Scripture, we need to understand the difference between things that are descriptive and things that are prescriptive. Now let me define what I mean by that. There are things in Scripture that we are to follow the way it was done in the Bible. Communion is a fantastic example. Jesus says, When you do this, do this in remembrance of Me. That was a prescriptive teaching. Kayla, when we get together to do communion, this is how we do it. So let's do it that way because Jesus told us to. Jesus' prayer here in the Sermon on the Mount is what we call descriptive. It is not prescriptive. This is not the only effective prayer that you can pray. You do not have to memorize these exact words for this prayer to be effective. It is descriptive in the sense that Jesus is teaching about prayer. He is not teaching the one super holy example of prayer that exists above all other prayers. There are denominations within Christendom today who think that this is the perfect prayer, and there's no way to pray other than repeating Jesus' exact words. Here's the problem. Jesus didn't speak English. Think about it for a second. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. I mean, I can repeat it. I learned it as a kid. But Ms. Jeannie, Jesus did speak English, so those aren't really even the words He spoke. You want to go back and memorize it in Aramaic? Yes, but that's really not the point. Jesus is not leaving us a prescripted perfect prayer. He is leaving us a description of the power of prayer. Pray like this. Our Father in heaven. Stop. I can't even get out of the first part of the first sentence without the major point. Our Father. Two things you get out of those two words. First, God is my Father. Second, Mr. Pete, God is also your Father, which means what? When we pray together, we are not only recognizing my relationship with God and your relationship with God, but my relationship with you. This prayer was given as a descriptive example. Our Father in heaven, meaning we are all equals. If you are a Christian, if you know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, you are a member of the body of Christ, whether brother, sister, aunt, or uncle, we are equal in our relationship to the Father. But because of Him, we are also equal in our relationship to one another. Our Father in heaven, may your name be kept holy or holy be thy name. May your kingdom come soon. He gives three different things here. First, may your name be kept holy. God is the holiest thing in all existence. He is. His character is the definition of holiness, that which we should strive for. We should never forget that. That our righteousness is as filthy rags unto God. He is perfect. Anytime we approach Him, it is always the imperfect approaching the perfect. It is always the created approaching the Creator. Second, may your kingdom come soon. Not only is God the definition of holiness, but God's kingdom is our goal, not our own empire. One of the great things that I found out in the interview process when I was thinking of coming here was, you know, one of the things you have to find out as a pastor is, I kind of have to, on the sly, figure out what does a church think about itself. And this is across the board. It doesn't matter what denomination you are interviewing in. Different churches look at themselves different ways. And in the pastoral circles, we talk about the difference between kingdoms and empires. And a church that is concerned about God's kingdom is willing to reach outside of itself or even outside of denominational lines for the message of Jesus. Churches that are interested in their own empires are only interested in building programs and growing their land and growing their numbers and all these other things. And on paper, sometimes they look the same. They really do. And this is sad because you have got to get to know people. You have got to really get to know people's hearts. You have got to listen to what they say, the way they phrase it. And so when you are someone in my position, and I just totally felt like the Lord was telling me to leave Florida, and I was like, okay, God, where am I going now? I had two very simple prayers. A, God, please don't make it hard. Don't make it a decision between left and right. Make it a decision between go and stay. And the second one was, God, please don't send me somewhere that wants an empire because I don't want to be an emperor. I don't want to go to a church that wants its church to be the biggest church in town. I don't want to go to a church that needs its pastor to be like BillYomes.com. I just don't need that. I don't want that. That is not what I desire. So as I was having these conversations, and Jason, I think our first conversation was two and a half hours. I probably took eight pages of notes during that conversation, most of it while you all were talking. And because Melanie was not in the room at the time, she was watching the kids so I could focus on listening. And so I was writing down all like this. I mean, it looked really, really bad. And the point was, I needed to hear your heart. I needed to wait for Ms. Ilona to speak when she was here at the beginning and she's here today and hear that heart that had threaded all the way through the church. Because our church cares about God's kingdom and putting his agenda first. Not just our empire, not just making sure that Reedswood is the coolest church in town, but that God is preached, that the Savior is what is the point of the church. Because if there's no Jesus, then why are we all here? And sadly, there are churches that get off that mark. In prayer, we should remind ourselves that God's holiness and his kingdom and ultimately what? His will. When you put God's will first, that means your will is not. Is that safe to say? Is that fair, Josh? If you're truly going to put God's will first in your life, then that means your will has to take a back seat. That means sometimes your comfort has to take a back seat. Sometimes your pleasure has to take a back seat. That's one of the things that comes out of a habit of prayer. Spending time with God reminds you that his holiness, his kingdom, and his will all come before my opinions and my goals and my plans. Let's go to the next point. Prayer reminds us of our need for God. All too often in the Christian life, you can get wrapped up in activity. You can get wrapped up in programs. You can get wrapped up in stuff. You can get wrapped up in worship team practice and Sunday school and VBS and kids church and youth group and camp and I don't know. Pick a feature, small groups. Before you know it, we have filled our time with church activity, but we have not invested our time in our relationship with the Savior. One of the biggest tricks that I believe the enemy has pulled on the church today is he has allowed us to become so busy, we no longer have time for discipleship. He has allowed us to become so busy with church activity that we no longer have time to take a brother out to coffee and go, bro, how are you doing? How can I help? What are you struggling with? Where are we going? That is what the church was designed to do, was disciple one another. Follow me as I follow Christ, not follow me as I follow my podcast. Follow me as I follow my website. Follow me as I follow my blog. Those are not the point of the kingdom. When you develop a habit of prayer, and again I've got to stress, a habit means it's involuntary. You don't have to leave yourself Post-it notes or leave the five minute moments on the back of the toilet to remind yourself to spend time with God. Laugh all you want. I know somebody in here has done it. Because I know there are at least four people in my Florida church, they told me that they love the five minute moment with small because it fit just on the top of the toilet. And I was like, well, at least you're in there once a day. When you develop a habit of prayer, and in voluntary time, where you approach the Father and you are reminded, I cannot live this Christian life alone. I cannot do it by myself. I am not strong enough. I am not smart enough. I am not holy enough. I am not anything enough. Father, help me. Help me to get one more. Help me to have one more day. Help me to survive one more trial. Give us today the food we, I really like the way the NLT pulled this out. Give us today the food we need. We're our daily bread. Obviously, who is Jesus speaking to in the Sermon on the Mount? Jews. The manna, that's exactly right. What is he referencing? He's referencing all the way back into the Old Testament when God's children were wandering in the wilderness, and God showed his holiness and his sovereignty and his love for his children by providing food daily and requiring that they collect it daily except for the day before the Sabbath. Why? Because God was going to remind his children just how much he can be a daily God. He can be the daily God who gets you through your daily struggle. Give us today the food we need and forgive our sins as we have forgiven those who sin against us. We just finished a four-week study on forgiveness and what does it mean and what happens when we don't. You cannot accept the forgiveness of God and refuse to forgive your fellow Christian. It doesn't work that way. They are antithetical with one another. You have to accept both. When we spend our time in prayer and we are approaching the throne and God's Spirit is resident within us, is filled and rejuvenated by that alone time with the Father. Number one, we are able to forgive more. Number two, don't let us yield to temptation. I really like the way that says that rather than don't lead us to temptation. Because God is never the one who leads to temptation. That is the enemy. Don't let us yield. God, temptation is going to come. Let's just be honest. We live in a fallen world. We live in a sinful world. Temptation will come. Don't fool yourself into thinking you are so much of a super Christian that you don't need to spend time in prayer because temptation is not a problem for you. If that is how you feel this morning, you have a pride issue. Once we pray about that, then we can talk about discipleship. I need that time with God because I have way too many weaknesses. I have way too many flaws. And I need these habits to build my strength up. To build my spiritual strength up so that I can live the kind of life that God has called me to live. Why? Because if I don't yield to temptation, then the Lord is the one who rescues us from Satan's plan. Make no mistake, Satan has a plan for your life. And it is a plan for destruction. And the Savior has a plan for your life. And it is a plan for redemption. Your only question is which one you are going to follow. It is really kind of a black and white issue. The enemy would love to destroy you and send your soul to hell. And the Savior would love to save you and redeem you unto God in heaven. There are no other options. I know in our pluralistic society today, people want to throw shade on the Bible. They want to throw doubt on the existence of hell. Don't doubt the Word of God. You are really not cool enough. Can I say that? Like it is the Word of God. Let's just take the truth for what it is. The fact that Jesus existed is beyond contestation. There are atheistic scholars in Cambridge and Oxford and England who will tell you Jesus of Nazareth was a real person. The only question is whether you believe he is the Savior or not. The idea that Jesus is only a good teacher or not even a real person at all is so far from reality that you have to bend truth to get there. The truth is we need to be reminded of our need for God. And when you develop a habit of prayer, again involuntary, you don't have to remind yourself of it. When your spirit knows, I need some time with God because I am feeling weak, and you change your schedule, and you give yourself that planned alone time. Zach, can I pick on you for a minute? Oh, by the way, in case you didn't know, Zach recently had a birthday, and he super loves being embarrassed with birthday selfies. So please, everybody see Zach after church because now he looks like a tomato. Everybody see Zach after church and make sure you take his picture and give him some lumps. Because you are so welcome, brother, I love you too. I am just trying to help you establish your need for God. We will get you embarrassed. We will help you develop that habit of prayer by just grinding some embarrassment into you while you are at church. That is what church is good for. Ms. Michelle, can you take me back to the title graphic for a minute? As we go throughout this series, each one of these icons represents a habit that I believe is necessary for healthy Christian growth. This morning we talked about prayer. We will eventually make our way across the geogram. But I want to end my message this morning with the same question I started with. Don't raise your hand. Don't elbow your neighbor unless you are married. That is totally fine. Do you have a habit of prayer? Do you spend time with the Lord in prayer on an involuntary basis? Where you need prayer so much, where your spirit desires the presence of God so much that you don't have to remind yourself about it. That is a habit. And trust Dr. Bill. Your habits determine, what is the end of it? My habits determine my health. All this week, your challenge, your prescription, if you will, all this week, your prescription is to pray without having to remind yourself to do it. I want you to spend the next seven days developing a habit that your spirit knows it needs the presence of God, that you need that intimate time with the Father, and that you feed yourself, you feed yourself that alone time with God. Because I can tell you this, if you don't have a habit of prayer, you are not healthy. The doctor tries to tell me all the time that eating a gallon of ice cream at a time is not healthy. Do I continue doing what the doctor tells me is not healthy? And expecting it to be healthy. That's the real lie, right? No, Doc, I put vitamins on my ice cream. It's totally cool. I have special non-fat, no sugar added, completely dietary ice cream. No, I don't. I drive through Cookout and I get double peanut butter milkshakes and eat them like they're going out of style. And what does my body get for doing that? A whole lot of extra weight that I don't need to carry. And no one would look at me and say, No, Bill, it's totally okay. Those milkshakes are absolutely healthy for you. Then don't lie to yourself and say, as long as I remind myself to pray three times a week, I'm really healthy. Don't do that. Don't make excuses for your lack of healthy habits, claiming that they are healthy. If you do not have a habit, and in voluntary time of prayer, you are not as healthy as you can be. That's the truth I want to give you this morning. That's why I thought maybe dressing up in my doctor outfit might make this pill a little easier to swallow. As you sit here, I don't think you're really as spiritually healthy as any of you think you are.