we are going to begin a brand new teaching series this morning entitled, Encountering Jesus. And what I want to do over the next several weeks, is there are many things that Jesus taught, there are many things that Jesus did. And it's good to study them all. Don't get me wrong, Nancy, there's never a bad Jesus day. You know what I mean? But for this series, we're going to do something very specific. And that is, I want us to explore times where Jesus ministered to people one on one. Personal conversations. The Sermon on the Mount was a large teaching delivered on a hillside to a very large audience. But there are several moments, what I would consider almost intimate moments, where it was Jesus and His audience, right here, right there, saying some very important things. So this morning, if you have your Bibles with me, or with you, hopefully you don't have your Bibles with me, or make it very hard to turn there. Turn or click with me to Luke chapter 23. I want to talk about the criminal on the cross beside Jesus. It's a very short, very brief conversation that Jesus has. But there's some very powerful lessons that can be learned here. So our first message in this series is, Encountering Jesus, the Faithful Criminal, Luke chapter 23, verses 39 through 43. I'll be reading it in the new international version, and I'll have it for you here on the screen also. Let me step out of the way. This is Luke chapter 23, verses 39 to 43. One of the criminals who hung there hurled insults at him. Aren't you the Messiah? Save yourself and us! But the other criminal rebuked him. Do you not fear God? he said. Since you are under the same sentence, we are punished justly, for we are getting what our deeds deserve. But this man has done nothing wrong. Then he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Jesus answered him, truly I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise. Short, simple, probably one of the most fantastic sentences you could hear the Savior say to you. But what I want to do is go back through this small passage of Scripture, because I believe the dichotomy here of the believing criminal versus the unbelieving criminal has a lot that we can apply to our lives today. So here's my first point this morning. Faith has to be more than mere knowledge. Faith must be more than knowledge. Take a look at the first verse we read, verse 39. One of the criminals who hung there, first pop quiz of the day, how many criminals were hanging beside Jesus? Two. So when we say one of, we're only speaking of 50% or half of the criminals. One of the criminals who hung there hurled insults at him. Interestingly enough, for those of you who like making little side notes, the Greek word there used for the word insult in English is actually blaspheneo. Anybody want to guess what English word we get that from? To blaspheme, to rail, to hurl insults at, is blaspheneo. And he said this, aren't you the Messiah? Now this is the unbelieving criminal. Aren't you the Messiah? What does he know about Jesus? Just in that question, aren't you the Messiah? What does he know? He has knowledge of, he has the concept that Jesus is the Messiah, but he doesn't have the faith that goes with it. See, it's one thing to know Jesus or know about Jesus or know stories about Jesus, or know stories from the Bible, or be able to say things that are Jesus related. That's all still theoretical knowledge. It's another thing to know Jesus. And we're going to get into that in my next point, so let me not run ahead of myself. The Hebrew, he used blasphemia. Now what I love about this, now, your translation may say, aren't you the Christ? Don't worry, it's not a problem. Messiah is a Hebrew word, Christ is a Greek word. They both mean the same thing. So if your translation says, aren't you the Christ, your Bible's not wrong. It's just translating the Greek word instead of the Hebrew word. And then look at his final, he asks the question, aren't you the Messiah? And then in his statement, save yourself and us. Save yourself and us while you're at it. What do you see as the focus of what the unbelieving criminal's trying to say? He's trying to say to him, okay listen, if you're really this big Messiah, go ahead and prove it and get us off the cross too. It's almost the same as saying, God if you're real, do this for me. Is it really praying God as you're real? Is it really wanting a relationship with God? Or is it really wanting what you want? And you're saying, if God you're real, then you could do this for me. And then it would prove to me that you're real. Well same instance, he's saying, if you're really the Messiah, go ahead and prove it. Take yourself down from the cross and go ahead and do us too. Yeah, let's make it a big deal. Go ahead and take us off the cross too. I don't really want to come down, but I'll do it so that you can prove you're the Messiah. No. Clearly, he wants to come down off the cross and he's got enough intellectual knowledge that Jesus might be the Messiah. Now, scholars have debated of whether this guy actually knows Jesus is the Messiah or whether he's just reading the sign that's above Jesus' head. Jesus, King of the Jews. Now, somehow he's got to get from King of the Jews to Messiah. That wasn't on the sign. So I'm going to go with, he has an understanding that Jesus is the Messiah but he doesn't actually have any, he has knowledge of it, but he doesn't have an understanding. Here's my next point. You have to transition from knowledge to understanding. And I know these words sound super similar in English. Knowledge versus understanding. But they're not. And here's my example. How many of you get mail at your home? I do. Okay, most of us do. Or you get mail delivered to you whether you have to go to a post office box to pick it up. How many of you know your mail carrier? Personally. That was like way more than I was expecting for my analogy. But that's okay. Isn't there a difference between someone like me? I know there is a mail carrier. I may even see the mail carrier driving in their car, putting mail in my mailbox, but I may even know what their face looks like if I'm outside enough when they come by, but I still don't know them. I still couldn't run out and say, hey Bobby, how's the kids? There's a difference between knowing of something like I know I have a mail carrier. I see them. Every so often they bring Amazon packages to my front door. When we lived in Florida, the UPS guy knew my face. We had so many Amazon Prime deliveries. The UPS guy knew my face. I would run into him at Walmart. He's like, hey man, I'm going to see you later today. Have a good day, bud. There's a difference between having knowledge of something and having an understanding. And that is there's an identification there. For those of you who know your mail carrier, can you actually just walk out, stop the truck and start a conversation? You know them that well. You have an understanding with them. You know their name. You know who they are. You have a relationship with them more than I do with my mail carrier. More than I do just understanding that there is a car going down the street that magically makes things appear in my mailbox. There's a difference between knowledge and understanding. Because you can identify with that. Here lies the major difference between the first criminal and the second. Take a look at verse 40. What he says here. But the other criminal, and this is the other 50% of our criminal population, don't you fear God? The first guy said four words. Aren't you the Messiah? The second guy also says four words. Don't you fear God? Now, keeping in mind the cultural context, most likely both of the criminals who are standing beside him are either Jews, or they know Jews because they're being crucified in Jerusalem. Don't you fear God is an incredibly powerful question for a Jewish audience, of which we know Jesus was. Why? Because if you look in the Old Testament, the word fear, and we should really detach our 21st century English understanding of the word fear. In America when we talk about fear, we think about spooky, scary, horror, Halloween, it, clowns, we think about fear as something I need to hide from. We have other words in our language like awe, reverence, majesty. See, we have other words. Now, when I say those words, you don't think of, oh, evil clown, I need to retract. You think of something lifted up, something very high and mighty. Well, in the Hebrew, it's the same word. Don't you fear God? And don't you have reverence for God? It's the same word in Hebrew. It's the same thing. Their concept of fear was not necessarily negative all the time like ours is. Most of the time, our concept of fear is in the negative emotion, and we use other words like awe or majesty or, you know, fill in the blank with one if you like, that has the positive form of reverence. Well, in the Hebrew, it's the same thing. So he's not asking, are you, ooh, scary clown, afraid of God? He's asking, where is your reverence for God? Now, what does that tell you about the second criminal's perspective of who he's hanging next to? He's looking past Jesus to the criminal on the other side saying, don't you fear God? The second criminal, I'll call him the faithful criminal. Don't you have reverence for God since you are under the same sentence? Now, I have to say, as I was drawing and diagramming out my sermon for this week, I came across this really interesting word picture. In the middle of this setting, you have the object of salvation hanging on a cross. To one side of him, you have an unbelieving criminal who is devoid of that salvation, and on the other side, you have a believing criminal who receives that salvation, all in one tight little package. With three people, I have somebody who gets saved, somebody who gets killed, somebody who gets saved, somebody who doesn't, and somebody who actually saves. What we learn about this second criminal, and they're never really given names, nor do we actually know what their crime is. To be fair, a lot of older translations say they are robbers. That's not accurate to the language. They're criminals, and if we went back into the Roman penal code, we could figure out how many different crimes was punishable by death, but there's no real attestation they had to be thieves. They could have been insurrectionists like Barabbas. They could have been other types of criminals. But what I want you to see here about this believing criminal is even while he hangs there on the cross, he has reverence for Christ. This is not fear, scary clown. This is fear in reverence. Here's my third point. When you have faith, it changes your perspective. When you truly identify, have an understanding with God that leads you to faith, your perspective is different. Let's take a look at the next verse. We are punished justly. Stop. Right there. We are punished justly. Those four words tell me something very important about the second criminal, and that is this. He has a perspective that there is an authority outside of him whom he answers to. When you say I'm being punished justly, Mr. Pete, what you are saying is, A. I agree there is authority above my own who has set forth rules that I have apparently broken, and I recognize that I have broken them, and I further recognize that I must make reprisal for that breaking. All of that is in those first four words. We are punished justly. The second criminal recognizes there is an authority greater than himself who has the right to judge him, and who has judged him fairly and correctly. Say nothing to say of different government agencies who do not judge fairly and correctly. This man clearly sees that his actions, when they are governed by a higher authority, deserve this punishment. And he says further, for we are getting what our deeds deserve. This man has done nothing wrong. 50% of the criminal population on Good Friday saw Christ as innocent. Now one could argue that the other criminal really didn't care whether Jesus was innocent or not. He's like, Jesus, go prove to everybody you are the Messiah, just get us down from here. Now who is the unbelieving criminal focused on? Himself. What he gets out of it. God, I would come to church regularly if I could just get this new job. God, I promise that I'll start giving more to you if you'll let me get past this interview, or you'll let me get into this program, or you'll help me to get that promotion that I'm in line for. God, if you give me, I'll give you. That's the first criminal. The second criminal. God, I'm in the situation that I'm in justly. I did wrong. I know I done did wrong. I know I done did wrong. And I know He didn't. See, the second criminal not only in judging himself against this higher standard says, I am guilty. I did wrong. I deserve. But he then goes a step further and says, but I recognize Christ did not. He had a perspective rooted in truth. He had a perspective rooted in justice. And he clearly saw what was being done to Jesus as unjust. Because he's juxtaposing his guilt against Christ's innocence. Here's your next perspective. Best sentence in this entire passage. Faith in Jesus saves. I want you to see the faith of the believing criminal in this next verse. Powerful, watch this. 42. Then he said, Then he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Now I need to break this down because there are several amazing facts of what he's saying here. Just like before, recognizing all that outside authority. There's a lot in here. First, the word Jesus. He clearly recognizes who he is speaking to. He identifies Christ by name and says it out loud. This is the one person I'm speaking to. Second, remember me when? Remember me when? Now, what are they doing right now? They're being executed. They're in the throes of dying. When he says, remember me when, he's establishing a very clear point. He believes there will be something after his death. If not, there would be no when. You see that? He clearly believes in some form of eternal existence or there would be no point to remember me when. If our life was simply over, when our heart stops beating and the electrodes stop firing in our brain, there would be no when. Because he says, remember me when, he is admitting I believe there is some sort of life that my soul will transition to when this body expires. There's still a when. Remember me when. And then the next thing he says, you come into your kingdom. Kingdom. Not only does the faithful criminal know and believe that there is something after death, he also believes that Jesus will be in a kingship position in that eternal existence. If not, he would not have said, your kingdom. He could have said, remember me when you get to the kingdom, or a kingdom, or fill in the blank. But he's very specific. Remember me when you come into your kingdom. This one sentence exemplifies all that saving faith in Christ is. Remember me when you come into your kingdom. A, I recognize there will be a life after this life. B, I recognize that Jesus will be in some sort of kingship capacity. And three, I recognize he has authority over me. Like the people executing me now do in this life. That's the subtext. The subtext is not only is there an eternal life, not only is Jesus, the man I am speaking to right here, going to be in some sort of kingship authority in the eternal life, but then the subtext is, you have the authority to do something when you remember me. Or it wouldn't be a point, remember me when. Remember me what? For a selfie? Remember me for a hashtag, Good Friday. No. Remember me when you come into your kingdom is a clear request for clemency, for mercy, for blessing. Clearly this criminal has saving faith. There's going to be a life after this life. Jesus will be in a kingship role and he will have the authority over me when I get there. And here's the last thing we'll take a look at. There are no second chances. Look at Jesus' response to the faithful criminal. And Jesus answered him, truly I tell you, today, today, that same exact very day. There's no three day waiting period. There's no you've got to stand in line, make it through customs. Today. Today, and then today, you will be with me. Today, you will be with me. We got into this a little bit in our Wednesday, I believe it was Wednesday night Bible study this past week. The one thing I want you to see from Jesus' reply is the faithful criminal is exactly right. There will be a life after this life. Jesus will be in a kingship role and he will have authority over us. What Jesus also then tells him is you won't have to wait. There is no waiting period. There is no extra line you have to get into. There is no getting signed in and getting your new heavenly driver's license. Like there is no delay between this life and the next life. Today. It wasn't even the day after Good Friday yet. He didn't even bother waiting for Easter yet. Jesus said, today, you will be with me. When we pass from this life to the next, it will be immediate, it will be instantaneous, there is no second chance to reconsider your position on who Jesus is. That is the beauty and also the frightening reality of the Gospel. That there is, again think about what the criminal said, there is a life after this life. Jesus will be in a kingship role. He will have authority over our lives. But at the moment that our life expires on this earth, our decision is made. We go immediately to where we are headed. As we celebrate the miraculous empty tomb, we have to remember that that was for a reason. It wasn't just for God to show off. If that was the case, he could have taken himself off the cross. He could have called down legions of angels and been like, yo, I'm actually the Messiah, can we get back to worshiping God? He didn't do that. He went through everything that he went through and we are the end result of that here this morning. If there's no way I can read you this passage and not tell you the plain reality that this criminal teaches us that when your life expires on this earth there will be an eternity. Jesus will be the king. He will have authority. And you will not get a second chance to reconsider your destination when you leave this place. When you leave this planet. If there's no better thing I could tell you is make sure you have the right boarding pass. Because once you leave this earth you pretty much have two choices. Smoking and non-smoking. There is no middle ground. Can I have a bar table? Something with a breeze? No. You have two choices. Smoking and non-smoking. And that's all we have. So before I let you out of here I want you to know this is a day of all days when we remember the miracle of the resurrection. When you personally transition from this life to the next. Where are you going? You. Not everybody else in the room. Not the person next to you. Not the lady across the hall. You. Because in your eternity Jesus is going to be there. In your eternity he's still going to be king. but you're not going to get a second chance to choose your destination. Now the other thing that the thief on the cross teaches us, or the criminal on the cross, he teaches us that there's nothing else required for salvation. Jason, Jesus didn't ask him to get baptized. Jesus didn't make him go to a new member's class or learn how to memorize the catechism, or make sure that he had to take communion, or make sure he dressed a certain way or gave a certain amount of money to the church, or you've got to serve in a leadership role for a certain amount of time. Somebody told me yesterday, they asked me if I could pray for them because they said, Well, you know, Pastor, you're closer to God. And I said, Stop. Woh-dare. No, I am equal to everyone else in this church. My job function does not put me in any special line in heaven except for one. I will be judged harsher than the rest of you. The Bible does say that. I will be judged. That's my line. I get the fast pass line to the extra judgment. So, woo, let's do that, okay? I get the fast pass line until he pulls out the whole tax code. Bill, on January 20th, yes, yes, yes, uh-huh. Yeah, that's the only special line I get. I do not have a special red-handled bat phone in my office drawer that I can holler at the Holy Spirit and make things happen. That does not work for me. I'm going to be in the same place as you. And Jesus is still going to be king. And he's still going to have authority. But you only get this one life to choose your destination for eternity. Have you made that decision? Or better yet, do you know that you've made that decision? There is a difference between knowledge and understanding. Is your relationship with Jesus like mine and my mail carrier? I know he or she is there. I know what he or she does. I know that he or she drops off the mail. I know that I get to see them every single week. But I don't know them. Is that you when you come to church on Sundays? You know that God is real. We can read His Word. I've read stories in the Bible. But I don't know Him. I don't have an understanding because I don't have identity. That's the question I have for you this morning. Is your relationship with Jesus more than your relationship with your mail carrier? Because if it's not, he's still going to be king. He's still going to have the authority. But you're not going to be there. And that's the frightening truth of the cross. It's that it's more than just knowing stories. It's more than just pulling out the Bible and memorizing words or remembering the different passages. It's got to be more than that because there's more writing on it than that. There's got to be more than mere words because all of eternity is writing on whether you know Jesus better than you know the person who delivers your mail. Your entire eternal destiny is writing on that one question.