So we are going to continue my teaching series this morning entitled, The Thankful Series. I'm sure that was a really well thought out title. But I wanted to, while we're in November and we're all getting ready to eat turkey and dressing and cranberry sauce and yummy, it's not time for lunch yet, I wanted to talk about what does it mean to be thankful. And in preparation for this series, I looked up the major biblical words in the Hebrew and Greek that are used, translated for our English word thankful, and they all have a common theme. So before I get into this morning's message, let's take a look at the key thought that's going to thread through all of these messages. The key thought is being thankful is an expression of the mouth, not just an attitude of the heart. Mr. Pete, if we were to look at just the Old Testament, there are two primary Hebrew words that we translate in our English translations to mean thankful. They are Yoda and Toda. And they basically mean, yes, everyone can make the Star Wars joke. Go ahead. There you go. Because I know I saw five people went, Yoda. Yes, except it's not really spelled that way. They both entail this connotation, Mr. Pete, that it's not just a feeling. I'm not just thankful in my heart. I'm thankful in my speech. I'm thankful out loud for what God is doing. Jesus said, out of the heart, the mouth speaks. In a Hebrew context, Dusty, there's not a main differentiation between how I feel because how I feel ultimately controls how I speak. So that's really the context through which we're going to look at this word thankful is we're going to be in the book of Psalms. And last week we examined to be thankful for who God is. This week we want to be thankful for what God has done. So the main point of my sermon this morning is being thankful for what God has done. Now we have somewhat of a longer Psalm this morning. So if you would please turn with me to Psalm 105, Psalm 105. It's a tad bit lengthy, but we really miss Lisa. We don't want to cut corners. We really need to read the whole thing so you can see the big picture of what David is saying here. So Psalm 105, we're going to read the whole Psalm. I have it for you here on the screen in the new international version. So this is Psalm 105 in the NIV. Here's how it reads. Give praise to the Lord, proclaim his name, make known among the nations what he has done. Sing to him, sing praises to him, tell of all his wonderful acts, glory in his name. Let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice. Look to the Lord and his strength. Seek his face always. Remember the wonders he has done, his miracles and the judgments he pronounced. You servants, the descendants of Abraham, his chosen one, the children of Jacob. He is the Lord our God. His judgments are in all the earth. He remembers his covenant forever, the promise he made for a thousand generations, the covenant he made with Abraham, the oath he swore to Isaac. He confirmed it to Jacob as a decree, to Israel as an everlasting covenant. To you I will give the land of Canaan as the portion you will inherit. When they were but few in number, few indeed, and strangers in it, they wandered from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another. He allowed no one to oppress them. For their sake he rebuked kings, do not touch my anointed ones. Do my prophets no harm. He called down famine on the land and destroyed all their supplies of food. And he sent a man before them, Joseph, sold as a slave. They bruised his feet with shackles. His neck was put in irons till what he foretold came to pass, till the word of the Lord proved him true. The king sent and released him. The ruler of peoples set him free. He made him master of his household, ruler over all he possessed, to instruct his princes as he pleased and teach his elders wisdom. Then Israel entered Egypt. Jacob resided as a foreigner in the land of Ham. The Lord made his people very fruitful. He made them too numerous for their foes, whose hearts had turned to hate his people, to conspire against his servants. He sent Moses his servant and Aaron, whom he had chosen. They performed signs among them, his wonders in the land of Ham. He sent darkness and made the land dark, for they had not, or for had they not, rebelled against his words. He turned their waters into blood, causing their fish to die, their land teemed with frogs, which went up into the bedrooms of their rulers. He spoke and there came swarms of flies and gnats throughout their country. He turned their rain into hail, with lightning throughout their land. He struck down their vines and fig trees and shattered the trees of their country. He spoke and the locusts came, grasshoppers without number. They ate up every green thing in their land. They ate up the produce of their soil. Then he struck down all the first morns in their land, the first fruits of all their manhood. He brought out Israel, laden with silver and gold, from among their tribes no one faltered. Egypt was glad when they left, because the dread of Israel had fallen on them. He spread out a cloud as a covering and a fire to give light at night. They asked and he brought them quail. He fed them well with the bread of heaven. He opened the rock and the water gushed out. It flowed like a river in the desert. For he remembered his holy promise given to his servant Abraham. He brought out his people with rejoicing, his chosen ones with shouts of joy. He gave them the land of the nations. They fell heir to what others had toiled for, that they might keep his precepts and observe his laws. Praise the Lord, even the kids are in on it. Now I realize that that is a rather long passage, but I didn't want to take away anything that David put into this psalm, because I think it is super, super important. Now some of your Bibles in the book of Psalms may not necessarily attribute this psalm to David, but just like last week, if you would turn in your Bibles, and it's not in the notes, but it's 1 Chronicles 16 verse 7, you would see that the writer of Chronicles attributed this to David. So if you turn to 1 Chronicles 16 verse 7, you will see there that the chronicler is quoting this psalm saying, And David said. So Mr. Don, even though David's name is not recorded in Psalm 105, because it is recorded over there in 1 Chronicles 16, I'm going to go ahead and say that I believe the word of God is true. I believe David wrote this psalm. Now before we get into this psalm, I want to sort of break it down, because studying 45 verses in a shot can be a little difficult. So here's my outline of Psalm 105. As I was studying it this week, as I was working my way through the text, here's really how I see this psalm breaking down. David starts in verses 1 through 5 with instructions to thank God. Then in 6 through 15, he reminds them of the Abrahamic covenant. We talked a lot about that over the past few weeks. Then there's an abbreviation of the story of Joseph. That takes up the whole back third from chapter 35 on in the book of Genesis. Then we follow into Exodus, we get the story of salvation from Egypt, the story of Moses. And then finally we continue in Exodus after 13, the provision in the wilderness 39 to 45. So it's through this outline that I'm going to try to approach this passage, because 45 verses in a single gulp can be a lot. When we look at the way David organized his thoughts, organized the way the psalm plays out, I think there are some fantastic lessons for us today on how to be thankful. So let's take a look at the first section. Thanking God out loud is what is expected of God's people. Thanking God out loud is what is expected of God's people. Let's look at our first five verses. This is the first five. Give praise to the Lord, proclaim his name. Did you notice just as I'm reading, Mr. Pete, you see how many verbs are here? How many instructive verbs? Give praise, proclaim, make known, sing to him, sing praise to him, tell all his wonderful acts, glory in his name, let the hearts of those who seek rejoice, another verb, look to the Lord in his strength, seek his face, remember the wonders he has done and the judgments he has pronounced. I counted ten different times that there are separate individual commands to do something. Either think, thank, sing, remember, tell. It's very clear that David's understanding of thanking the Lord, and if you're wondering where I'm getting thankfulness, the very first words here, give praise to the Lord. Give praise in the Greek is yadach, meaning thank him out loud. Thank him out loud, yadach. That's in fact, depending on what translation you read, that give praise can also read give thanks, or give thanksgiving, depending on which translation you want to read. So the whole psalm opens up in verse one with that yadach, meaning praise God, thank him out loud. Then we get to second line, no, not yet. The second line, make known among the nations. One of the reasons God's people are called to praise him out loud, Mr. Mark, is because it's what God's done that gives us the reason to praise. It's what God has done that gives us the reason to praise, not because I'm worthy of it. It's not because I am worth anything. In fact, we were watching yesterday, I was watching that movie, Amazing Love, the story of Hosea, a youth pastor takes a youth group out on a camping retreat, and so it's part the youth pastor and the youth group, and it's part the biblical story of Hosea. And one of the lines in the movie that was just so fantastic was, why does God love us so much? Surely we cannot be worthy. And the other kid says to him, no, it's not because we are worthy, it's because his love is that great. It's because his love is that great that he loves us in spite of our faults, that he loves us in spite of our weaknesses. It's because of what God has already done, that he is ultimately already worthy of our praise, already worthy of our thanks. And then look down to the fourth line, tell of all his wonderful acts. Now you have to remember, we get the benefit of the recorded written Word of God, but the events recorded in the Word of God, from the beginning of creation to the end of judgment, they happen in their own timeline. So for instance, Moses could not have read the Psalms of David. Why? Because Moses lived before David. Moses lived and died before David was ever born. So when we read the Scriptures, we also have to remember, chronology comes into play, history comes into play, and there's really two different times. There's the time that the book is written, and then there's the time that the events are occurring when they happen. Like for instance, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and John, all feature the story of Jesus. Matthew and Luke feature the Christmas story. When we get to Christmas, we're going to read passages in Matthew and in Luke. Mark, that doesn't mean that Luke was writing it the night Jesus was born. He's writing about the night Jesus was born. Well, the same is true here with David. David's writing about events that have happened long before him. How does he know of all his wonderful acts? Because, now you can take me to the Deuteronomy passage. Take a look at this. This is Deuteronomy chapter 6, 4 through 9. These are clear instructions from the Law of Moses. Look what it says. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength. That sounds familiar. Jesus quoted that. These commandments that I give to you today are to be on your hearts. Impress them on your children. Talk about them when you sit at home and when you walk along the road, when you lie down and when you get up. Tie them as symbols on your hands and bind them on your foreheads. Write them on the door frames of your houses and on your gates. From the installation of the Law of Moses, there was always an expectation that parents would teach their children who God is and what He has done. So, from the installation of the Law of Moses, generation after generation, yes, some people, they wandered away. God had to give His children a little spanking, bring them back to Him. But there was always this expectation that from father to son, from mother to daughter, that the wonderful acts, tell of all His wonderful acts, would be handed down. And this is why. Because there's an imperative in the law to do so. Well, Mr. Jason, if you adequately pass down to your sons who God is and what He has done, you are also pouring into them and seeding into them, planting in them, the reasons to praise God. Because when our sons grow up and they move out of our homes and they get married and they have their own children, or in that weird wilderness period where they're young men but not yet married, there's tons of life temptation that happens. There's tons of things. How do we prepare the next generation to withstand that storm, withstand that test? Tell of all His wondrous acts. You are going to know that the God that I serve is the God that resurrected on the third day. You are going to know that the God that we serve is the same God that parted the Red Sea. It's the same God that promised His children land. It's the same God that promised His arrapture. Like, you're going to know those things before you make it out of my house. Because you're going to be well armed to tell of all His acts. So there is an imperative for God's people to thank Him out loud. Second, one of the reasons we can do this imperative is we remember that God's promises never fail. God's promises never fail. We just finished up a series on the book of Revelation and the end of days and I shared with you that I believe the Bible should be studied literally. I don't believe it's a giant allegory. I think when God said He made a promise, that means He made a promise. And that God made a promise to a group of people called the Israelites. And when you understand that God's promise is God's promise, it's not some allegorical reference to something that will come later, then a whole lot of these passages make a whole lot of sense. Mr. Zach, one of the things I don't understand for those who are in the allegorical camp and not literal camp is how they're going to handle a verse like this. God's promises never fail. Let's pick it up at verse 6. You, His servants, the descendants of Abraham, His chosen ones, the children of Jacob, He is the Lord. Notice it says our God, pluralized. He is the Lord, our God. His judgments are in all the earth. He remembers His covenant forever. The promise He made for a thousand generations, the covenant promise with Abraham, the oath to Isaac, Jacob, Israel. If you're not familiar with the Abrahamic covenant, somebody remind me, we just talked about it for like six weeks. What is the Abrahamic covenant? God made a promise with a guy named Abraham. Abram, that became Abraham. And the promise said, I will be your God, you will be my people. You'll inherit the land of Canaan, that's the Palestinian covenant. And the whole world will be blessed through you. That's the Abrahamic covenant. Look at how many times, just in these verses, David, now keep in mind, David lived long after Moses. David lived long after Moses had already gone, after Joshua. But look how much he reminds them. Mr. Pete, don't forget what God has done, and then don't forget what God has said. Don't forget what God has said. If God promised it, then God guaranteed it. And if God guaranteed it, then all I've got to do is wait, because it's not like it ain't going to happen. International builders. If God said it, then it will eventually occur. I mean, just look at how many times, just, and you know what I also noticed? Abraham, what was the name of Abraham's son? Isaac, his name's there. What was the name of Isaac's son? And then it got changed to Israel. Do you notice all four of those names are in this passage right here? If you look in the book of Genesis, what you'll see is God gave the covenant to Abraham. He reminded Abraham's son, Isaac. He reminded Isaac's son, Jacob, when he changed his name to Israel. The Abrahamic covenant was given to all three of the patriarchs of Israel. And that's because it was a covenant meant for all of the people who had come from Abraham. So he reinstalls it to all three. So every time you make it through the Old Testament, and Dusty, you see the names Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob come up again and again and again. Those are giant, big, flashing audience abuse lights that should remind you, God made a promise not just to Abraham, but then he made it to Abraham's son, he made it to his grandson, and then all of the descendants that came after them. Why should we be thankful to God? Because he is faithful, even when I'm not. He does what he promises all day. All day, every day. God's word will be true. He does what he promises all the time. Let's look at the second half of this passage. To you I will give the land of Canaan as the portion you will inherit. Again, Palestinian covenant, right? If you see all of those covenants as allegorical, you're going to have some trip ups here too. To you I will give the land of Canaan. When they were but few in number, few indeed in strangers in it, they wandered from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another, but he allowed no one to oppress them. This is that small bit of history between Jacob having his twelve sons and Joseph. This is what's happening while Joseph is in Egypt. There's this moment where God's people are still God's people, although they kind of still look like one family, right? They all have the same grandfather. Guy has twelve boys. There's a little bit of sibling rivalry. The little boy doesn't know how to keep his mouth shut, and his brother's selling him into slavery. I mean, just common everyday story. But while Joseph is in Egypt, sojourning, getting ready for what God has him to do, God is still protecting his nation. Why? Because God made a promise. And when God made the promise, that promise will be seen through. Let's look at the next section. Remember God's blessings from the past. Now David starts recounting the story of Joseph. The story of Joseph begins right around Genesis 35, and it follows pretty much the rest of the book. It is a fantastic epic story. But sometimes when we study the story of Joseph, we get distracted by the character of Joseph. A lot happens to young Joseph. He's sold into slavery as a teenager, and he's arguably in his young thirties by the time he actually ascends to the palace and faces the Pharaoh. But in all of that, the distraction is, Tara, whilst the story of Joseph centers on Joseph, it's not all about Joseph. And that's why, notice where David took us first. He reminds us about the Abrahamic covenant. Reminds us that God made a promise to a people, and God's going to see that promise through. So what I want you to do is now when you read this, and we're going to just briefly recount the story of Joseph here, I want you to remember the backdrop to the story of Joseph is the Abrahamic covenant. Because then the question is, Josh, why does God send a teenage boy into slavery, get him sold into another country, spend 15 years arguably away from his family, being wrongfully accused of rape and imprisoned? And if any of this is a surprise, I promise it's all in the book. I didn't make it up. Why does God do all of that? Because the question is, Miss Barbara, why does God punish Joseph? Well, in order to understand the purpose of the entire story of Joseph, you have to reel back and realize what happened before his story. God made a promise to a people. And as we see here, he called down famine. So where did the famine come from? The famine that drives Jacob and the other 11 brothers and all of his descendants into Egypt. It's the same famine that God gave Joseph a vision about, the same famine that then God prepared the nation of Israel for. Where did the famine come from? From God Himself. It's not an accident. It wasn't some attack from the enemy. It was God Himself who sent the famine for what purpose? To drive the nation of Israel into Egypt. I put down in my notes, the famine was not a punishment. It was an accomplishment. God was using the famine to send His nation to a place where He had already prepared the way. He had sent Joseph. Miss Andrea, I'm sure you've read the story. He sent Joseph. Joseph had to go through some character building moments. He went to managerial school. He got his MBA in Egyptian financial management. And then he got placed in the waiting pool downstairs in the bottom of Pharaoh's dungeon. And then all of a sudden, he gets a vision from God. Do you notice Joseph didn't get the vision until after he was prepared to do the mission? Yeah, there's something there for you. That's a whole other sermon another day. Joseph got prepared. He gets his MBA in Egyptian financial management. And then he sits waiting underneath Pharaoh's palace for the moment that God put him in the place. Now why, why, oh why did God put Joseph where He needed him to be? Because what is the ultimate thing accomplished by the story of Joseph? The children of Israel are brought into Egypt. So all of this is He sent the kings, released them. Take me forward one more, Mr. Josh. Where is that? He made a master of his household. This is Joseph. Now elevated to all of Egypt, ruler over all Pharaoh possessed. He instructed his princes to release them. Notice it's interesting. When you read the story of Joseph, Pharaoh calls in all of his wise men. Susanna, every single person who can give Pharaoh advice is in one room. And it's the little Jewish prisoner boy who ultimately knows what's really going on. And that puts him in this place. And then look what it says here. Jacob resided as a foreigner in the land of Ham. Obviously, because of Jacob, we also mean his entire family. The Lord made his people very fruitful. One thing I want you to know about the story of Joseph. I can abbreviate it in two words. Egyptian incubator. God uses the pagan nation of Egypt as an incubator to grow the children of Israel. Why? Because if I'm living in the land of the largest military power of its day, I don't need to defend my own borders. If I am living in the land that is the center of commerce of the day, I don't need to fund my own currency. God uses Egypt like an incubator. His children are free to grow, be fruitful and multiply. First Commandment from Genesis. They're free to grow as a nation because they don't have to have warriors. Nobody's dumb enough to invade Egypt. Nobody. He uses them to grow the children of Israel. And he made them very fruitful. Ultimately, so fruitful, in fact, that they begin to outnumber their own Egyptian hosts. And then at that point, the Egyptians have a problem. Mark, what happens if all of these Jews unite together and decide that we don't need to be in charge anymore? We got problems. Now, ultimately, Pharaoh could have just said, I remember who Joseph was. I remember what those people did for us. Bless them and let them go. And God's will still would have been accomplished. But unfortunately, sin gets in the way and selfishness gets in the way. And rather than just let God's people go, all of a sudden they go, wow, we could have an entire slave army. And so they enslaved God's people. Was the enslavement part of God's purpose? That's a fantastically esoteric question for another day. I will say that God's purpose came out of the enslavement. I think God could have accomplished his purpose multiple ways. But because Egypt begins to hate his people and conspire against his servants, God's got to move. So here, what is the story of Joseph? Whilst it is a fantastically epic story about one man who ultimately saves his people, the long-range story is God made a promise and then God put them in a place to start receiving on that promise. Start becoming multiplied, becoming rich, becoming blessed. And then ultimately, sin gets in the way. So now cue the next thing. Remember God's deliverance from the past. Miss Barbara, while the children of Israel are living in Egypt, they're multiplying in number. Their flocks are multiplying. If you read it, you notice that Joseph says to Pharaoh, hey, my family are shepherds. We're good at this whole sheep thing. Why don't you let us watch the flocks and their flocks start multiplying? Why? Because God's going to bless his people. I put here in my notes, sometimes there is more blessing to be had living in a foreign land as a pagan than sojourning in your own promised land. Because God brought them into that Egyptian incubator, let them multiply, and then of course we needed deliverance. Unfortunately, we get too comfortable. Then needed deliverance. So look at what happens next in God's story. Psalm 105, this is 26 to 38. Then he sends a guy named Moses. Most people growing up in America know the name of Moses. Some of you have heard me tell this story. I had a church in Florida. We had a young lady. She moved to South Florida when she was like four years old from Haiti. Her family are pagans. So she grew up without a Bible in their home. She grew up in Santaria, a couple other things, but not really reading scripture for scripture's sake. And so she was there one Sunday, and I mentioned the story of Moses, and she's like, oh, that movie with Christian Bale? I totally saw that. And I went, not really. But good try. And so then we had to go to the Bible, and we had to actually look at the real story of Moses, not the Hollywood's version of the story of Moses. In short, because I'm running out of time for this point, God sends Moses, interestingly enough, the prince who became a shepherd to become a deliverer, sends Moses. And here's my question this morning. Why does Moses tell Pharaoh to let the people go? What is God's reason for delivering his children from the bondage in Egypt? Anybody? What's God's point? Well, that's accomplished. That's accomplished. The promise is definitely accomplished. Does anybody know what God actually said to Moses? To tell you, it's shown. Look at this. Take me to that one. Let my people go so that they may worship me. And look how many times he said it. 5 1 7 16 8 1 8 29 1 9 13 and 10 3. That's the story of Moses. The story of Joseph is the Egyptian incubator, God blessing and numerizing his people. And then ultimately, he sends in Moses, let my people go so they may worship me. What was the whole point of the Abrahamic covenant? God would have a people and he would be their God. That they would worship him and him alone. They spent so much time in Egyptian captivity, they needed to be reminded, I'm daddy's people. And so ultimately, he sends a deliverer. The deliverer comes to get him. It's through God's power and Moses that everyone is extracted. And then if you look, Genesis chapter 42, this is not in the notes, but Genesis 42, 1 and 2, Jacob, he sends his sons into Egypt because they're about to starve. The famine. And then the very end, and I believe it was, go back one slide Mr. Zach. He brought out of Israel laden with silver and gold from among their tribes no one faltered. On the way into Egypt, Jacob and his sons are starving, fleeing a famine. On the way out of Egypt, they're straight jacking everybody silver and gold. They walk in poor, escaping a famine, and they walk out rich and blessed. That's my God. That's the God that we're called to praise. He walks them out laden. There's, I mean Egyptians are straight up giving them, Mark, just go bro, just take it, take it. You like that plate? That plate's yours, take it. You want my grill? Here, take it, take it. Put it on your camel and go. They, the Bible says they plundered Egypt on the way out because God had a plan and that plan involves us reminding. And then look what happens next. Remember God's provision. I'm running long so I'm going to abbreviate this one. After the story of Moses, the children of Israel are brought out of Egypt, they're brought out of slavery, and then we have this whole wilderness wandering period. What happens during the wilderness wandering? God wants his people to be his people. He wants his people to worship him and love him. And of course that's exactly what they do and praise God. They worshiped him for 40. No, unfortunately it's not what they did. They got out into the wilderness and they started grumbling. They started complaining. Man, would have been better. Moses, why did you bring us out here to starve? At least we had food back in Egypt. I don't know why all of a sudden when you're complaining you have a southern accent, but that's the way it reads. They get into the wilderness and they start complaining and they start grumbling to the point that they almost stoned Moses to death. And Moses turns and he says, God, what do you want me to do with your people? I mean just imagine, Ms. Lisa, you physically walked through the Red Sea on dry ground. That was you with your children. Zach, your brothers, your sister, you're here. All of you walked on the actual bottom of the Red Sea with the walls of water standing beside you. And less than a year later you're complaining because there's no Egyptian Big Mac on the corner. You're wondering how is God going to provide? The God who parted the Red Sea can figure out how to feed his people in the woods. And so what does he do? He sends them quail. He sends them the manna, the bread from heaven. He tells Moses, strike a rock and outflows water. He provided for every need of his people, which had been his plan all along so that they could worship him. And then yes, so the Abrahamic covenant could be fulfilled. Now why did I just go, why did David go through that entire history lesson? Because in Psalm 105, God's people sometimes need to be reminded of how many miraculous things God has done. Because by the time we got to David's generation, they weren't the ones that walked on the bottom of the Red Sea. They weren't the ones that ate the manna. They weren't the ones that remember the sting of the Egyptian slave master's whip. Sometimes our brains have to be reminded of how amazing God is. So let me take Psalm 105 and bring it forward to the New Testament church time. Mark, we weren't the ones that were there on the day of Pentecost when fire fell from heaven and Peter preached and 3,000 people got saved. We weren't the ones that were there on the Damascus road when Saul became Paul. We weren't the ones who were there when Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead, but I tell you what, you need to go back and remind yourself of who your God is because if you truly did that, you would always have a reason to praise. You would always have a reason to be thankful. There is nothing this world can throw at you that is greater than the resurrection, if that's the only story you can remember. There is nothing that the devil can throw at you that makes it past the glory of the empty tomb, that makes it past the miracle of feeding the 5,000, that makes it past Jesus walking on water and Peter walking out on the water and then Peter gets distracted and he goes, Peter, come here, dude. There's nothing that makes it past those stories if those stories make it to your heart. If they're only cerebral bedtime story learning, they will not be in the depth of your heart when you need them. So here's my question to you this morning. Are you thankful? Are you thankful because it's some cerebral knowledge that you have, you read a really cool Bible bedtime story, or are you thankful because you know the God that... My ADHD takes over. Y'all, he's worthy whether you get it or not. He's great whether you get it or not. So my question to you this morning is, what are the words of your heart saying about God? I just recounted half the Old Testament stories. I wasn't there the day the Red Sea parted, but if I was, I guarantee you two things. A, my ADHD circuit breaker would have popped. I'd have been like, walking, watching this giant wall of water. And two, I'd have been in tears praising how amazing God is. Sometimes we have to remember, Monday through Saturday can wear you down. That's why it's so important to come back and be a part of your church family.