We're going to be continuing our series entitled, Finding Forgiveness. Finding Forgiveness. And if you haven't been here for the beginning of finding forgiveness, that's okay. What we've been doing is exploring the topic of forgiveness. Now not from the perspective of God's forgiveness towards man, but from the perspective of man's forgiveness towards another man. Man's human forgiveness when we offend each other, when we hurt each other. I found that picture online and it was like a heart hugging itself while broken. I just thought it was a really great analogy for human to human forgiveness. Now, the first, first let me start by saying what forgiveness is not. I want to look at this list each week. What forgiveness is not. Forgiving isn't forgetting. Forgiving isn't excusing. Forgiving isn't approving. Forgiving isn't getting even. Forgiving isn't reconciling. Forgiving isn't pretending it didn't happen. And forgiving isn't avoiding the reality that it did happen. On week one we asked the question, what is forgiveness? What is forgiveness? Forgiveness is being fully aware of a hurt or offense and choosing to forgive. Then last week we asked the question, why should I forgive? Why should I forgive? Because God has called us to and our relationship with him is affected when we don't. This week is probably the hardest week that we have to talk about. This week I want to talk about barriers. Barriers to forgiveness in your everyday life. And I want to start out by saying what's blatantly obvious. All of us have been hurt and offended by another human being at some point in our lifetime. Not a single amen to that. So we're starting off cold today. Okay, we'll get it warmed up. Every one of us has been hurt or offended by someone at some point in the past part of our life. So as we sit here this morning, I just want us all to be on a level playing field. Nobody in here is judging anyone else. No one in here is throwing shade at somebody's direction or thinking that they are better than anyone else. We all start this morning equals in the reality that we have all been hurt by someone at some point. This morning I want to give you five barriers to forgiveness and how the Bible is going to help you get over and break through each of those barriers. Let's take a look at the first barrier. The first barrier is this. I have too much hurt. You're looking at me and you're saying, Pastor Bill, I know everybody else in this room is hurt, but they weren't hurt like I was. They weren't hurt the way I was hurt. You don't know my story. You don't know my situation. Oh, I don't, but give me 30 minutes at Starbucks and we'll become friends real quick. I do know this. We've all been hurt. That's why I wanted to start with that as our premise. We've all been hurt. And yes, Dusty, there are times when you are hurt so much that we have to address the hurt before we can address the forgiveness. We have to be honest about the reality that people do hurt us. They do offend us. We do get upset and I have to deal with that hurt. Let's take a look at Matthew chapter 5, 43 and 44. This is the New Century version here. This is Jesus speaking in his famous Sermon on the Mount. You have heard it said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who hurt you. Jesus speaking to a very large crowd on a raised plateau. The Sermon on the Mount, in my opinion, is like lifestyle Christianity. If you needed two chapters of the Bible to read that would help you change the way you daily live to reflect Jesus, go to Matthew chapter 5, 6 and then read 7 for good boot. Like the Sermon on the Mount is lifestyle Christianity. It deals with life issues. What I want you to see here in these two verses is look at the first thing Jesus says. You have heard it said, stop. Wes, what does that tell you about what he's about to say? It's common knowledge. Wes introduced me to a term when I first moved here. Apparently they use it down at the shipyard. What is it? Tribal knowledge. Tribal knowledge. I have worn that term out since I have been here. I stole it, I wore it out, I prayed for it, resurrected it and I'm wearing it out again. I love this term. Tribal knowledge. This understanding here, you have heard it said, was tribal knowledge or common knowledge of their day. Something that his crowd would have readily identified with and readily understood. You have heard it said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. And I think one of the reasons that this is common knowledge is, Carrie, it's easy. It's easy for me to love the people I like and hate the people I don't like. It's easy for me to draw lines in my life and go, okay, here's my line and everybody on the left, and everybody on the right, you know. It's easy to draw lines and pick the people we like and pick the people we don't like. And maybe for some of us our line isn't so straight. It might be curve curve but I got to include this person over here and come back. I understand that that is a massive temptation. What I want you to see is, it's not a new one. Them in their day, the people that Jesus was talking to still drew lines in their life. They still made a differentiation between a neighbor, someone I'm close to, someone I'm familiar with, someone that I love, someone that I share life with, and an enemy. Someone I fight, someone I don't like, someone I would readily scrap with, someone I gear up and I start putting my armor on the moment I see them coming or I hear their ringtone or I see their name coming in on my cell phone, I immediately start putting on armor. That's an enemy. You may not say it that way. That's not the moment to elbow your neighbor by the way. Nobody elbow your neighbor in this point. You might not say it that way but I know there have been people in my life when I see their name on my caller ID, I reach for my sword and not my handkerchief. Nobody has to amen that point. Nobody has to elbow anybody. I'll say I'm alone in that. I know. There are some people when their caller ID comes up on my phone, I'm like I wonder how long I can let this ring. Maybe I'll go to voicemail. Maybe I can tell them and then I go do something so that when I call them back I can tell them I was doing something and that's why I didn't answer their phone call. I'm clearly classifying, some of you all who are laughing know you're guilty too. So I'm classifying them as an enemy and I'm drawing lines and going these people I like and these people I don't like. And Jesus says it's time to flip the script. It's time to stop doing what is the common knowledge or the tribal knowledge. Stop doing that which comes naturally. And he says I want you to love your enemies and I want you to pray for those people who hurt you. Now all of a sudden I am doomed by my own line drawing. All of those people that in your head you were encircling and you were drawing lines and you were classifying them as enemies, they become your mission field. They become the people that Christ has called you to love, to serve and to pray for. And I'll be honest, when someone first initially hurts you, praying for them may not be your first knee-jerk reaction. I understand that. But that's why this is such an important point to get through. If you have to work through a hurt or an offense, that's okay. I'm not trying to stand up here this morning and tell you that if someone hurt you right before you walked into church, that you don't have a right to still be hurt. No, you do. But you do not have a right to use that hurt as a reason to not forgive. There is a difference between being hurt and being stubborn on that hurt. Right? And I'm making sure that I'm scanning the back wall so nobody feels like I'm staring at them. There is a difference between being hurt and using that hurt to be stubborn. Jesus is very clear. Love your enemies and pray for those who hurt you. One of the things that I have had to do, and I will admit, Wes, make myself do, is when someone has hurt me or hurt someone that I love, I sit down and I grip myself and I go, I'm going to pray for this person to be so blessed. Blessed beyond how God has blessed me. Loved beyond God has loved me. And when you can get a hold of yourself and force the fleshly side of your mentality to obey the spiritual side that loves the Word of God, you'd be amazed at how quick that forgiveness can come. But I would be amiss if I did not tell you that Pete sometimes got to get a hold of yourself first. You got to grip yourself and go, I know you're angry and I know you're upset, but I demand that you obey the Word of God. Bill, get it in line. Get your junk together and listen to the Bible. And yes, sometimes you do have to force yourself, but you do not get away from this instruction. Even if you have hurt, you do not have a reason to not forgive. That's barrier number one. Let's take a look at number two. I am bitter and angry. This feels like a natural, that's the natural reaction. When I am hurt, I get angry. And if I stay angry long enough, I get bitter. This seems natural. It feels good. Take a look at what Paul said in Ephesians chapter four, the new international version. Get rid of all bitterness, rage, and anger. I'm out. I'm already done. I'm already stumbling. I'm already having a hard time with this. Get rid of all bitterness, rage, and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice. That's a sermon in itself, that one sentence. Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other just as Christ God forgave you. Now, just as much as being hurt and being offended when someone hurts you is a natural response, Caitlin being angry is a natural response. I would hate to stand up here and make you feel that you are ungodly or a bad Christian because you're hurt or bitter. No, the reality is there are a lot of people who walk into churches on Sunday morning who are hurt and bitter. They're just not talking about it. They're just putting it in the back side of their prayer list, going, we'll not talk about it on Sunday because I'll talk about it on Monday. Or better yet, I'll talk about it on, this is what I don't get. People will go to a bar on Friday night and grab a beer or a Manhattan and sit there and complain to a bartender for hours about all the things that are going wrong in their life. But they won't come to church and talk to the people who would help pray for them through that difficulty. I have found, and that's why most of you when we meet out in public, I prefer to meet at Starbucks. I prefer to meet in an environment where people are already used to talking. It's the closest I can get to counseling at a bar because at least the people, if you were to say how many counseling appointments I have a week, best thing you'd be like, you spent a lot of time drinking at a bar. That's a bad idea. At least some of them at Starbucks, people aren't thinking that's too poor of a habit. But the reality is people want to share what's going on. Do you know why people don't share what's going on in church? You're all thinking it. I'll just go ahead and say it out loud because they're afraid people are going to judge them. They're afraid that if I take off my mask and I admit to all of you this morning that I'm not a perfect person, that I do have struggles, that I do bring myself to tears sometimes because I'm so upset at myself for making stupid mistakes, that all of a sudden I'm the bad Christian in the room. I'm the one that's not good enough and I'm not strong enough or I'm not holy enough or I'm not faithful enough or I'm not fill in the blank enough. If I can teach you anything this morning, take a look at the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul is the one that said, get rid of all bitterness, rage, anger, brawling and slander along with every form of malice. Do you know what that tells me? Somebody in the church in Ephesus had a problem with bitterness, rage, anger, brawling, slander and malice or he wouldn't have written it. And if the church in Ephesus at the very beginning of our faith was having to deal with these very personal and emotional issues, can we not give ourselves credit that Mr. Pete maybe we do too? And maybe it's not a bad thing to be honest and go, you know what? I really have some bitterness towards X, Y, Z. And I know it's not right and I know it's not godly. Trish, will you please talk to me and pray with me? Let's read a book together. Hold me accountable. Why is that bad? Why is that what we hide from? What we shy from? Because when we sit down in these pews in this super holy room, everybody becomes super Christian overnight. You got to know I know that's not true. And you got to know that I know you're all full of it. If you're sitting here thinking that you're super Christian and perfect, none of us walked in the door any more perfect than we walked out of the restroom this morning. Just let that one sink in for a minute. We have a little book at home we had to teach our kids. Everybody goes potty. Oh, I didn't say you were taking a shower this morning. I just said you went into the bathroom this morning. You're making an assumption. That word malice right there on the third line has a very specific meaning in the Greek that I want to make sure that you understand. This word every form of malice, it literally means action from evil intent. Action from evil intent. Intent to harm or destroy is the connotation. So look at what happens here. You get hurt, you get offended, you get bitter. What is bitterness? I am holding on to and ultimately feeling justified in my anger towards someone. That's bitterness. What does bitterness lead to? More rage and anger problems. What does that lead to? Now we're going to have to fight. Now I'm going to use bad language. I'm going to slander you behind your back. And then ultimately all of that is driven out of that heart of I need to see evil done to you because you hurt me. And that's what it means. I feel justified in my bitterness and anger and rage and slander and possibly even brawling because of that malice all the way at the bottom. Every form of malice. And Paul says, no, no, no, no, no. Be kind. That's hard to do when someone's hurt you. That's hard to do. And I understand that. Be kind and compassionate to one another. Do you know what you can't do? I don't think this is possible. I do not think it is humanly possible Levi to be bitter at someone and compassionate towards them in the same moment. I just don't think you can do it. I think needing to see someone and be compassionate with them. Cheryl, it requires that I let go of my bitterness. It requires that I look at you in your state and not through my lens of anger, through my lens of judgment, through my lens of offense in order to have compassion on someone. You have to see them in their situation, not them in your situation. So ultimately when he says be kind and compassionate that should start unwinding that heart of malice, that heart that desires evil. Be kind and compassionate and then ultimately forgiving each other because Jesus forgave us. And I know we've already talked about this. But I've got to talk to it again because as a Christian this is the single greatest reason that I have the right to hold you accountable to forgive. Because if you are a Christian and you are sitting here today and you have accepted the forgiveness of Jesus, what right do you have not to forgive others? When we have accepted the, and one of the books I read for school, I forget which one it was, it talked about the reality that our sins to God are significantly more offensive than our sins towards one another. Not because you or I are greater than one another, but because our sins are so offensive in light of His ultra holiness. In light of how holy and righteous and pure God is. A single sin in our life is a travesty in comparison to a minor offense between brothers and sisters. And yet God in His love, in His mercy, in His compassion, sent the Savior and died for us to repair that broken offense. What right do I have to hold anything against my brother when my heavenly Father who is much more holy than I ever was forgave me of all of my offenses? We've got to be kind and compassionate. Let's take a look at reason number three, a barrier of why I would not want to forgive. Because I want to have revenge. I can totally understand this one. Is the verse on the next slide or did I erase it? Yep, it's right there. I want to have revenge. Now go back to I want to have revenge for a second before we read that. If you feel this way, I love you because I feel this way. When someone hurts me, I want to hurt them back. But Dusty, it's not just a matter of I want the actual pleasure of hurting them back. It's that I want to witness them being hurt. I want to bear witness to my vengeance when it is poured out. It's not just the fact that I need you to have payback. I want to watch you get payback. And therein lies the problem, isn't it? Therein lies the problem that it's not enough to know, you know, some people say, oh, what goes around comes around. Or they'll have this idea of Christian Karma that, well, if you do bad, others bad things will happen to you. That's usually not good enough. For someone who truly wants revenge, what do you really want? You want to bear witness to that revenge. You want to see it played out. You want to get whatever the self-gratification is of knowing I got to see you get yours. That's what you want to see. Therein lies the problem. You really don't have the right to see that. Now let's take a look at the verse. Romans chapter 12 verses 17 through 19. This is the New Living Translation. Never pay back evil with more evil. Drop the mic, alter call, I'm out. I don't know that there's a better sentence than that. Never pay back evil with more evil. Do things in such a way that everyone can see you are honorable. Do all that you can to live in peace with everyone. I could have taken any one of those statements, and Zach, there's no way to harbor unforgiveness and desire revenge and accomplish those statements. Never pay back evil with more evil. Do things in such a way that everyone can see that you are honorable. Well, I'm not searching for payback if I'm honorable. Three, do all that you can to live in peace with others. Dear friends, never take revenge. Leave that to the righteous anger of God. For the Scriptures say, I will take revenge. I will pay them back, says the Lord. We do not get the right to demand to witness revenge. We do not get that right. We are flawed human beings. As much as you may have this internal desire to say, but Pastor Bill, you don't know how badly they hurt me. I don't. But you don't know how badly you hurt the Savior. And in comparison, I'm sure my hurting the Savior was much greater than my brother or sister hurting me. Now, I don't know that I may have deleted it out of your notes. So let me look at my larger detailed notes here. This concept of needing revenge, this desire for needing to see payback is not godly. It is selfish. It's driven from a selfish heart. Why? Because I want the reward of seeing the payback. I want the reward of seeing that they get what they deserve, which takes me right to my next point, number four. I'm afraid they'll get away with it. This is really why you're selfish. This is really why you have to bear witness to the own muting out of your revenge, because I'm afraid they'll get away with it. Romans chapter 2 verse 6 in the HCSB, He will repay each one according to his works. You can look up any one of those three scripture references and they all say the same thing. The New International Bill Version, West, you eventually going to get shows, because God's going to make show. When we truly understand that nothing happens on this earth that is not seen by the sovereign eye of God, not recorded in our each individual book of life, then there is no reason for me to have to force my witnessing of revenge. There's nothing you can do to me that my Heavenly Father doesn't already see. And if I fully believe that He will hold each one of us accountable for the actions of our life, then I don't need to repay you, because He recorded it. And you'll have to answer to Him. And let's be honest, answering to the Father in heaven is way worse than answering to Bill on earth. Just be honest, which one's a little spookier? Which one's a little scarier? Almighty sovereign God in heaven who created the world. Yes, all day over the big fat guy who talks once a week. If I know and I trust and I love that my Heavenly Father has my best interests at heart, there is nothing you can do or say to me that He does not witness. And if my Father witnesses it, then you will be made to answer for it, even if I'm not there to see it. Think about this. Some of you may be holding on to hurt or offense or holding on to unforgiveness towards someone who has already died. This is very real. It happens a lot. You may be struggling to forgive someone who has already passed beyond the barriers of this life. Understand they will answer for what they have done, but you're not there to see it. We stand before the judgment throne of God, solo. You're not going to be able to stand there. I used to say this a lot in youth ministry. I used to try to tell teenagers, you don't get to stand before God and say, Pastor Bill told me so. That is not going to be an acceptable and authoritative answer in the courtroom of the Father. My pastor told me so. My priest told me so. The missionary told me so. It's not going to be an acceptable answer. He is going to look at you and he is going to say, I gave you my word. What did it say? That's the only answer that holds any authority in the presence of God, is His very word. I know and I identify with those of you who don't want to forgive because you're the final holdout. And if I forgive them, then they got away with it. And they never had to answer for the bad thing they did to me. And they were never made to pay for it. That's not true. That's the lie that the devil is telling you to get you to hold on to that hurt and hold on to that offense and not forgive someone. Because if I forgive, you know Jason, I'm the last one that remembers what this person did to me. And I've got to hold the ground. I've got to hold the line because everybody else has already fallen by the wayside. But Darn it, I am stubborn and angry enough that I will plant my feet and I will be angry and I will remember what you did to me all the way for 20 years. There's a person in my family like that. Refuses to let go of offense because they feel like they're holding, it's honorable to hold something up. Hold this offense up. You know what she's really holding up? Pain. And she's digging it up for herself every time she remembers this offense. You've convinced yourself somehow through a lie of the enemy that holding on to that offense is what's right. It's not. Because just ask yourself a simple question. Has God forgotten? Has the Almighty, loving, sovereign Father in heaven forgotten about that offense? Then you're not the last line of defense. You're not the last one to make somebody answer for something they did wrong. He is the last one and his memory never fades and his word never fails. You don't have to hold on because they're not going to get away with it. I feel like this is the big barrier that people just don't understand. You don't have to hold on to that offense. Like I said at the beginning of the series, holding on to unforgiveness is like drinking poison every day. Hoping that it will hurt someone else. It doesn't. It's completely illogical and yet we do it all the time. I'm going to drink this hemlock and by goodness, Zach, it's going to hurt you more than it hurts me. That's the lie we tell ourselves so that we feel justified in holding on to that offense. If you're at this barrier this morning and I feel like there's somebody in the room who really is, you can let go because God has not forgotten. They will answer to the Father in their due time. But it is not for us to question when the Father makes that time available to them. Let's take a look at our final point. I don't want to reconcile. This is the other really big one. That's why I saved both of these for last. The first three were like getting your feet wet. Now we're like cannonballing into the deep end. I don't want to reconcile. I understand. And for those who may be holding offense towards someone who has already passed on, you're not able to reconcile. So I want to talk to both of those people at the same time. If you're offended at someone who's still alive and if you're hurt by someone who has already passed on, you do not have to reconcile. Take a look at our text. Acts chapter 15 verses 39 through 41. This is in the New American Standard Bible. And there occurred a sharp disagreement that separated them from one another. And Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed to Cyprus. But Paul chose Silas and left, being committed to the brethren by the grace of the Lord. And he was traveling through Syria, Sicily, strengthening the churches. Now, if you would like to read this chapter, you will see what happened. Paul and Barnabas are traveling around. They are doing God's work. They are planting churches. They are doing real ministry. In walks a gentleman by the name of John Mark. You may be familiar with him. He wrote the second book of the New Testament, the Gospel of Mark. John Mark is traveling around. And at some point in the history before our verses, Paul and Barnabas go into a town to do ministry. And John Mark, he just deuces out of the situation. He's like, no, I'm good. I'll catch up with you guys on the flip side of that town. I'm not really sure I want to go there. And he abandons Paul and Barnabas in the midst of doing work of God. Well, Paul's not too happy about this. Later down the road, Barnabas, John Mark shows back up again. He's like, hey guys, where are we going next? And Paul's like, dude, you completely abandoned us. Like, why would I take you as a partner again when you left me high and dry at our last stop? And he's like, no, no, no. I really want to do the work of God. I really want to go with you. And Barnabas goes, OK, I'll take him with me. And Paul says, no, you're not. He's not coming with me to go do the work of God again when he abandoned us. I'm allegorizing the story for you here. This is the dispute between Paul and Barnabas. Barnabas wants to take John Mark and continue doing the work of ministry with him. And Paul's like, bro, I'm out. You left me to dry. We're not working together again. And the dispute between Paul and Barnabas over the person of John Mark gets so severe that Paul and Barnabas split ways. This is why I feel justified in telling you that reconciliation is not required for forgiveness. What did Paul and Barnabas do when they separated? They continued to do the work of God. Paul grabbed Silas. Paul and Silas went one way. Barnabas and John Mark went the other way. They were not hindered at all from the ministry of the Gospel because they had a disagreement that was so severe that they couldn't work together anymore. They didn't stop working for God. They weren't taken out of the loop. They weren't no longer doing the work of God. They just were no longer doing the work of God next to one another together. You may have someone in your life who has offended you or hurt you so much that you cannot go back to the way things used to be. That's okay. I'm not here to tell you you have to. But I'm going to ask that you follow the example of Paul and Barnabas. If you are holding on to so much offense from this individual, from this person, that you are unable to grow spiritually, that you are unable to participate in ministry, that you are unable to do the work of God, then you are wrong. However, if you are able to part ways with this person and be peaceable and be able to pray for them, but just not want to work side by side with them anymore, then that is the godly example. There is nowhere that I'm going to require you to have to reconcile and go back to the way things were before the offense started. As I said in my first message, if you borrow my car and steal it, I'm not letting you borrow my car again. That doesn't mean you still can't come over for dinner. You see that? I'm not ruining the relationship. But if you steal my car, I'm not letting you borrow it again. Actions have consequences. And there's nothing wrong with actions having consequences. The question is, who are those consequences on? If you are carrying all of this burdening on your heart and you cannot actively pursue the depth of your relationship with God, if you cannot actively participate in the work of God, then you have a forgiveness issue. If you just don't want to work side by side with this individual anymore, I would argue that's not a forgiveness issue. I have worked in the trenches with pastors that I don't like. I'll say that again. I have worked with pastors that I don't like. We were not friends outside of work. I had my job. He had his job. And we worked together well. But when it hit four o'clock and the church office was closed, we were not buddy, buddy, chummy, chummy. We were not, hey, let's go grab a pizza. Let's go take our kids out. I just didn't have that relationship with a few of the men that I have worked with. Does that mean that the work we did was bad? Does that mean that we were not both serving God? Does that mean that we were both being perfected by rubbing against one another iron sharpens iron? No, it just means they're not my bestie. Is that a bad thing? I do not expect you to be BFFs with everybody in the church. I don't. I expect you to be peaceful. I expect you to be compassionate. I expect you to walk in Christian love. But I do not expect you to be better than the Apostle Paul. And I think that's fair. I don't expect anybody to be better than the Apostle Paul at what he did in ministry. So you do not have to reconcile. But there's sort of an asterisk on the bottom of this point. You have to be able to have peace. You have to be able to do all the other things we talked about. You have to be able to have compassion. You have to be able to have love. And you honestly, you should have to be able to sit at a table and have a meal and have that meal not be flavored with venom. I have sat down and shared meals with pastors that I've worked with that I don't like. In fact, I'm still Facebook friends with some of them. We still talk. We still, hey, what's going on in your church? What's going on in your church? Hey, Bill, can you do me a quick logo? Hey, you know, what's going on? Yeah, we still work together in a digital online capacity. But I don't want to work for him anymore. I definitely don't want to sit in his staff meetings. I don't want to work for his managerial style. That doesn't mean that we're not loving God. It just means that we're not going to be best friends and we're not going to work together anymore. This is the hard one for some people to get. They feel like if I have forgiven you, then I have to forget everything. No. Forgiveness of sin does not mean absolution of consequence. Forgiveness of sin does not equal absolution of consequence. If you sin, there are consequences. Like, I don't know how to say that. If you use illegal drugs, there are physical consequences in your body. If you engage in premarital sex, you risk pregnancy out of wedlock. Like, these are just normal everyday occurrences. I hope I'm not like shattering anybody's worldview here. But sin has consequences. But who is the ultimate authority of those consequences? Me or God? Obviously, the Father in heaven. This is usually the hard message in this series because when you are struggling to forgive someone, normally you're getting tripped up by one of these barriers. So this is what I want you to do. I want you to take your connection card. Hopefully you filled out the front earlier. And I want you to turn it over on the back. You can see there it says, I want to take a faith step today. Normally I start by asking if there's anybody in the room who doesn't know Jesus. If you do not have a personal relationship with Jesus, if you have not had a moment in your life of bare honesty before the Lord that said, you know what, God, I am a sinner. I cannot do it on my own. Please forgive me and dwell within me your spirit that I can live a life that pleases you. If you have not had that moment, you could fill in that bubble that says, I want to begin life with Jesus today. I'm not going to bring you up here in front of the church and embarrass you. I'm probably going to ask you, can we go buy a coffee, get lunch at Chick-fil-A, get a slice of pizza, whatever it takes. And we'll talk about what it really means to live a life daily with God. You can all see there, rededicating baptism. I want you to look over in the right column that says, speak to the pastor. Today is where the rubber meets the road. I've given you three weeks to get to this point. We've defined forgiveness as needing to choose to forgive. I've given you reasons of why we have to forgive because God has called you to and when you hold on to unforgiveness, you are intentionally damaging your relationship with the Father. Today is the heavy hitter. If you are still struggling to forgive someone, then I want you to fill in that bubble that says, I need to speak with the pastor. Because I've given you the reason for what forgiveness is. I've given you the reason for why you need to forgive. And now we've looked at five major barriers that might hold you back from forgiving someone. If you are still, and to be honest, forgiveness doesn't come in a day when the offense cuts really deep. I understand that. What I'm saying is, you are no longer allowed to hide that unforgiveness and call it something godly because it's not. This is where the rubber really meets the road in the bottom of your heart. If you have that person, you know that joke I made earlier about the caller ID on your cell phone. If you have someone when their caller ID appears on your phone, your stomach starts to churn, you have a forgiveness problem. And if we need to talk about it, if you are uncomfortable talking to me, then you need to speak with somebody who does love you and who would hold you to a biblical standard.