We're going to begin a new teaching series this week entitled, According to the Angels. I will go ahead and willingly admit to you that the month of December is the hardest month of the year for me. It is the most challenging and most difficult season to be a Sunday morning communicator. Because Mr. Pete, you already know all the passages we're going to read this month. You've heard them plenty of times. Those of you who've grown up in church, you could probably quote half of them. And Caesar, Augustus, Decletus, and Census would be taken throughout all the world. And Mary and Joseph traveled to Bethlehem because he was of the lineage and the line. You know the stories. So the challenge for me, Tara, each time when we get to Christmas time, is how can I present the story of our Savior's birth, the incarnation of the Son of God into human form, in a way that will teach you something new. Mr. Zach, I will willingly admit I may not pull that off every single week. But I'm going to do my best. So I have themed this year's Christmas series not around the people of Christmas, as much as the four angelic messages that are given during the Christmas story. So this December we are going to take an examination or a walk through the four angelic messages that are a part of the Christmas story. And you're probably counting them in your head going, wait a minute, I only got to three. Now there's really four. So let me give you the key thought for this series. And then we'll talk about this week's title. So here's the key thought. Christmas is the time to remember God fulfilling his promises to mankind in the coming of Jesus, the Savior King. We are going to look at four distinct angelic messages that all take place at the beginning of the New Testament, that are all heralding the coming of the Messiah. And you need to understand the New Testament does not take place in a vacuum. Mr. Charles, it's not like we wrote the New Testament first and then we went back and wrote the Old Testament as the prequel because Moses needed a byline. No, the Old Testament had already happened. God had a covenant people. There were promises in place. And Jesus comes into the story in that midst. And that's why taking a look at these four angelic messages, in my opinion, should be rather interesting. So the title of this week's message is According to the Angels, Zechariah. So if you will turn with me to the book of Luke, chapter one. Book of Luke, chapter one. Luke, you'll find it, Matthew, Mark, Luke, third book in the New Testament. Those of you who have been attending our midweek Bible studies, here's your chance to show off. Who wrote the gospel of Luke? See, that's why you should come to Bible study. Look at how many people knew that. And what do we know about Luke? He was a physician. He was a Gentile. He's the only known Gentile author of Scripture. He was a traveling companion of the Apostle Paul. And here's the trick question. Who wrote more of the New Testament than any author? Luke, that's right. Who wrote more books in the New Testament? The Apostle Paul. Who wrote more actual letters on page, more volume of anyone else in the New Testament? Luke. He wrote something like 23% of the New Testament. When you look at sheer volume. Luke and Acts together weighs more than all of Paul's writings together. That's the person we're going to examine this morning. We're going to pick the gospel of Luke up at chapter five. You can read Luke one, excuse me, chapter one, verse five. The first four verses of Luke are like the prologue they established for us. His purpose, his intent that he carefully investigated, that he checked out everything before he wrote it. And then here we pick it up in verse five. And this is the NIV translation, the New International Version. In the time of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah who belonged to the priestly division of Abijah. His wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron. Both of them were righteous in the sight of God, observing all the Lord's commands and decrees, blameless. But they were childless because Elizabeth was not able to conceive and they were both very old. Once, when Zechariah's division was on duty, he was serving as priest before God. He was chosen by lot, according to the custom of the priesthood, to go into the temple of the Lord and burn incense. And when the time for the burning of incense came, all the assembled worshippers were praying outside. Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense. When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and was gripped with fear. But the angel said to him, do not be afraid, Zechariah. Your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you are to call him John. He will be a joy and delight to you, and many will rejoice because of his birth, for he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He is never to take wine or any other fermented drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even before he is born. He will bring back many of the people of Israel to the Lord their God, and he will go on before the Lord in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the parents to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. Zechariah asked the angel, how can I be sure of this? I'm an old man and my wife is well along in years. The angel said to him, I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I have been sent to speak to you and tell you this good news, and now you will be silent and not able to speak until the day this happens, because you did not believe my words, which will come true at their appointed time. I know that doesn't sound like a Christmas passage, but I promise you, you cannot understand the full beauty of the life of Jesus until you understand how that beauty fits into God's larger picture. So for me, and when I'm studying, when I'm reading, when I'm learning, the Christmas story happens before the angelic message to Mary, before the angelic message to Joseph, before the angelic message to the shepherds. We have to start here. This is the very first angelic message. So let's take a look at point number one. The time of silence is over. Now what we're going to do is we're going to go back through these points bit by bit and sort of look at chunks of the passage. So the first point is the time of silence is over. The opening words of this very first sentence tell us a whole lot. In the time of Herod, king of Judea, or Judea. Remember Luke is a Gentile. Luke is a Gentile physician, a learned man, and also a historian. He by opening the sentence with this, in the time of Herod, king of Judea, he is linking everything he is about to tell us. Everything he is about to tell us about the prophecy of John the Baptist, the birth of John the Baptist, the birth of Jesus, all of that is now linked into a specific time in the general history of the world. Just as much as if I were to say to you the day after 9-11, what was the date, the day after 9-11? Of what year? 01. How do you know that? Because you know that day in our nation's history. You know that day, not only you know that day, you know that year. If I were to ask you what was the birthday of our nation, you may come up with July 4th, but what year? 1776. By including this detail, the time of King Herod, king of Judea, Luke is including the story in all of the world's history. Joe, he is taking us to the moment, not just in God's redemptive history, but in world history, when the forerunner of the Messiah is about to be over. Now why is that important? The time of King Herod, king of Judea. Well you have to understand this. Or okay, Wednesday nighters, or Wednesday dayers in fact, Wednesday people. Can I call you that? How many years of quiet are there between the end of Malachi and the beginning of Matthew? Somebody said it already. Shane, 400. Absolutely correct. There is 400 years where God did not speak to His people, did not send them a prophet. He gave them the silent treatment for 400 years. And then the very first moment that the Lord decides to speak, it's not just a message from heaven. Jason, it's not just a vision from some dude praying and Jehovah shows up. This is an angelic messenger. The time of silence is over. Why is that important? Because the end of the Old Testament prophesied the herald would come before the Messiah. So by Luke concluding the detail, he's telling us when it is in world history. Then look at the next part. There was a priest named Zechariah who belonged to the priestly division of Abijah and his wife was also a descendant of Aaron. For those of you who are interested in looking up the priestly division of Abijah, you can find that and it is in 1 Chronicles chapter 24 verses 1 through 19, see especially verse 10. The priests of Aaron's line were divided into 23 different categories or 23 different teams or groups and then each of those 23 groups would serve twice a year. Mr. Don, you'd serve once, then you'd go home for a while, everybody would serve and then you'd come back and serve again. So you'd serve a full two weeks in the temple in two different one week stints. In this particular week, it is Zechariah's turn to be there. But also notice on the third line here, Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron. So now not only do I have 400 years of silence being over, but I have both of the parents of John the Baptist are from the same lineage, Aaron. Who is Aaron? The brother of Moses, the very first high priest of Israel. Do you see here even in these opening lines, Luke's saying, Miss Lisa, big deal. World history, redemptive history. Both parents are descendants from the original high priest, the first high priest of Israel. And look at this, both of them were righteous in the sight of God. That's going to be coming in very important detail as you continue to read through the text. Both of them were righteous in the sight of God, observing all the Lord's commands and decrees blamelessly, but they were childless because Elizabeth was not able to conceive. You have to understand in this day and time, Miss Cheryl, being able to bear children is the single most important job for a wife at home, for a mom, to be a mom, to continue the lineage of your family. So when Luke tells us that Zechariah and Elizabeth are older, now they at least understood enough of biology to know that as a couple gets older it's more difficult to conceive, they knew that, but they also knew they were still childless. Now the point of they were righteous in God's sight is their barrenness was not a punishment from God. It was not God judging them for not being righteous people because Luke has included they were very righteous. This was because God had a plan. So let's take a look at point two. The placement of this message is holy. The place of the time of silence is over, number two. The place of this message is holy. Let's take a look at verses eight through 11. Once when Zechariah's division was on duty, he was serving his priest before God, he was chosen by lot according to the custom of the priesthood. The job that he is about to do is he is about to walk into the holy place, not the holy of holies. That's the place that only the high priest goes once a year. This particular room Zechariah is about to walk into gets walked into twice a day by one priest. And there were enough priests in Zechariah's division that this was likely a once in a lifetime honor. Now he says he was chosen by lots. Those of you who don't know what that means, that means they were throwing dice. They were throwing dice in the church. Now we have to ask ourselves does that mean they were gambling? No. There's actually a passage in the Old Testament that talks about, it's Proverbs chapter 16 verse 33. The lot is cast into the lap, but every decision is from the Lord. They would use the outcome of the dice to determine what the Lord wanted to say. And it's really simple logic. If you believe in a God who is big enough to speak the world into existence, how can that God not be powerful enough to control the outcome of two small little dice? It's just reverse logic. If God is big enough to do everything else, impart the Red Sea and all of the miracles of the Old Testament, you really believe he's not powerful enough to control the outcome of two dice. Mr. Charles, you know what else I think is really interesting? There is not a single biblical record of the casting of dice to understand God's will after the day of Pentecost in Acts chapter 2. Why? Because we now have direct access to the Holy Spirit. Ms. Ilona, we don't have to guess or wonder what God's will is because God's Spirit lives within us. But we're not to that point yet. Jesus is about to be here. We're about to get to the church age, but we're not there yet. And so they're using the casting of lots to understand God's will. So he has chosen to go in and it's very important to understand what is he doing? He is burning incense. So Josh, he walks into this room that is the holy place. Only one priest goes in there twice a day. The priest's job is to go in there, clean off the altar of incense, because as you burn incense it would get dirty. Clean off the altar, put in new incense, and keep that incense burning day in and day out. The incense is a symbol of prayers constantly being offered to God through his people. That's what the incense is a symbol of. So he goes in there to fix and continue the burning of incense before the Lord. All of the rest of his priestly friends there outside praying. And an angel of the Lord appeared to him standing at the right side of the altar of incense. That last sentence I think is so poignant. Because think about it, if Zechariah is alone in a room and an angel appears, how does Luke know the angels on the right side? He investigated. He had to investigate enough. Look at the level of detail in that sentence. It would have been fine just to say he was serving his priest before the Lord and an angel appeared. It wouldn't change the meaning of what's going on at all. But Mr. Pete, the detail that Luke put into his writing, into his research, that detail, that right side of the altar could only have come from one person. Zechariah was the only human being in that room. That means Luke either got the detail directly from Zechariah or from someone who got it from him. Because there's no other human being in this room. Take me forward again. The angels message brings joy, verses 12 through 15a. That just means the first half of verse 15. When Zechariah saw him he was startled and gripped with fear. I will willingly admit to you, Miss Fran, I have never had an angelic visitation. I have never had an angel appear in a room when I thought I was alone. I cannot expect that I would react any differently than Zechariah did. If I was in a room that I thought I was ministering before God and I was pretty sure I was alone and then all of a sudden here is an angelic figure in front of me, I can imagine that I would be fairly afraid. And Mr. Dusty, what's interesting is if you go back and you look at every single time in scripture that an angel or an angelic messenger comes to speak to a human, you know what the first thing they have to say is? Don't be afraid. Do not fear. You see it in the New Testament, it doesn't change. When the angel appeared before Joshua, don't be afraid. When the angel appears to Mary, do not fear. When the angel appears to Joseph, don't be afraid. So it's the human condition, but again we get this picture of what's going on in Zechariah. He was startled and gripped with fear and the angel said to him, don't be afraid Zechariah, your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son and you are to call him John. So Zechariah was in fear for 400 years. For all of Zechariah's life, for all of his father's lifetime, for all of his grandfather's lifetime, they have been serving before the Lord faithfully two weeks a year and God never intervened. God never jumped back into the story. So Zechariah has a pretty clear expectation. Pete is going to go in the room, he's going to serve, he's going to do his job, but it's pretty much some alone time to just pray and be with God. Then all of a sudden you're alone, time has interrupted, angelic messenger. This is the first person the Lord has spoken to in 400 years. Since the last prophet Malachi, or you may know him as Malachi the Italian prophet, since Malachi, only the Italian people like that joke, since Malachi had a, and if you read in the book of Malachi, Malachi had some very clear things to say. God will send a forerunner, someone to prepare the way. All of this must be going on in the back of Zechariah's mind. Your prayer has been heard, your wife will bear you a son, you are to call him John, he will be a joy and a delight to you. I think that's an understatement. If you think about the fact that day after day after day, he and Elizabeth are praying that God would grant them a child, and the fact that their joy was delayed had nothing to do with the fact that they were bad people. He had nothing to do with they weren't righteous. He had everything to do, Zach. God had a plan, and his plan was to send a forerunner child to two people who are from the line of the high priest, who are both righteous, who would raise him to love God. God had a plan. Unfortunately, that plan did require them to pray and seek and finally be given this child. He will be a joy and a delight to you. Many will rejoice because of his birth, for he will be great in the sight of the Lord. I cannot imagine how I would feel if right before my son was born, if Aaron, an angel had showed up and told me the kind of life my son would live. I have to believe that as a parent, even if an angel were to show up now, Mr. Don, if an angel were to show up now and tell me, Bill, your son is going to be great in the sight of the Lord, he will bring joy to you, many will be called back, I would be enthralled. Not only do I believe God has a plan for my children, but God's plan included him sending an angelic messenger to tell me how important the plan was. Finally, 15b-17, John's call to ministry is going to be special. Take a look at this. There's an Old Testament context here we've got to see. He is never to take wine or other fermented drink and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even before he is born. Now the never take wine or fermented drink is a specific requirement of what is called a Nazarite vow. The Nazarite vow, you can find it in Numbers 6, verses 1-21. A Nazarite vow was a temporary vow that any Jew could take. They would go to the temple and Ms. Cheryl you would say, I am going to commit myself to the Lord's service for xyz amount of time. This is a commitment that you yourself as a willful human being would make. You would choose to serve God for a specific amount of time and then while you were under your Nazarite vow, you had some specific rules to live by. You cannot drink wine. Other fermented drink there is i.e. beer. It's an alcohol, a grain alcohol, not a grape alcohol. Wine would have been a grape alcohol. The other alcohols would be made from grain and that's what fermented drink is. So no wine and beer. You're also not allowed to cut your hair. You're also not allowed to eat certain things. Again, if you want to go to Numbers 6, you can see all of those requirements. What is important to see about John is there are only a few instances in scripture where someone has declared a Nazarite before they are born and that declaration lasts for their entire lifetime. I can only find two. Samson in Judges 13, 4-7 and the prophet Samuel in 1 Samuel 1, 11 and 15. So I can only find Samson and Samuel as people who were declared Nazarites for their entire life. Miss Cynthia, that means their life from birth to death was set aside for God's unique and powerful purpose. This is John the Baptist. He is now the third life-long Nazarite and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even before he is born. Now we live in the age of the church. So Josh, we're used to the idea that every believer has equal access to God's Spirit. That's not the way it was in the Old Testament. Sam in the Old Testament, God's power would rest on individuals for a certain time. Think of the Old Testament prophets, the fantastic epic stories of Moses, Elijah, Elisha, Jonah. You can see God's Spirit would rest on a person. Samson, fantastic example, not a great example to live by, but a fantastic example of God's power. God's Spirit would rest on a person for a job for a specific amount of time. But here, John the Baptist not only will be called to be a Nazarite to serve God with his entire life, but he will be given the Holy Spirit even before he is born. For what purpose? The angel says it in the next sentence. He will bring back many of the people of Israel to the Lord their God and he will go on before the Lord in the Spirit and the power of Elijah for the purpose to turn the hearts of the parents of their children and the disobedience to the wisdom of the righteous. Look at this last sentence, or I guess it's a phrase, a clause, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. Now that links us back to Miss Janie, the prophecy from Malachi. Now Zechariah, if you was wondering, he knows for sure. Malachi prophesied a forerunner would come before the Savior for the purpose of preparing the ground, preparing God's people to receive God's Messiah. Four hundred years of silence and now God is on the move. Not only is God on the move, but God is now sending the man who will prepare the way for the Messiah. This is a earth shattering message if you're Zechariah. Now let's take it to the end. Zechariah is rebuked for his lack of belief, verses eighteen through twenty. Now I got to say here, I think Zechariah gets a bad rap. Zechariah asked the angel, how can I be sure of this? I am an old man and my wife is well along in years. If you scroll down or just move your finger down in your Bible to verse thirty-four of the same chapter, Mary asks the same question. But Mary's not rebuked by the angel like Zechariah is. Sometimes I think Zechariah gets a bad rap because he didn't believe the angel. I don't think that's really true. What I think it is, is he didn't believe how it would work. He was stuck up on the how. How can this be when I am well along in years? Look at Mary's response in verse thirty-four. How can this be? Well, he did and he had to appear to Joseph because Joseph wanted to get rid of Mary. What I think is interesting about this is, here's Zechariah. Pete, four hundred years of silence and now an angel is telling you, your unborn son, the son you have been praying for, that you and your wife have been waiting for, is not only going to be born, but Leah, he's going to be the one who prepares the way for the Messiah of Israel. This is earth-shattering news. And after all of that big deal news, Shane, he's distracted by how old he is. Big deal news. Well I think it's either a lack of faith or a lack of understanding. Sometimes God's going to tell you he's going to do something, but in Siloanah, He doesn't always tell us how. Because God doesn't always have to tell us the how of what He's going to do. He's just going to do it. Zechariah is stuck on the problem, not the promise. He's stuck on the how, not the who. If you were to look at the message, his question is, how can this be, my wife and I are both, and I'm so glad that Elizabeth's not here in the room, when he's saying, man, my wife is old. How's she going to have a baby? Angel, you done got the wrong folk. Because I got gray, my wife's got a lot more gray. He's distracted by the how, not the fact that after four hundred years, Pete, there's an angel in front of you. If an angel of the Lord appears to me, how is really not the question I should be asking. I should just be walking. I should just be believing. But he's distracted by the problem, not the promise. Now what's interesting is, he asks, how can this be? And the angel does really answer his question. It's a little bit of a rebuke, but the angel does answer his question. He gives him a sign. Now his reason, how can this be, is simple. I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God. How is it possible that a couple who's too old to have a child is going to have a child? Why? Because Gabriel stands in the presence of God, and nothing is impossible with God. God says it's going to happen, it will happen. Now you know what, Mr. Jason, something I find very interesting about the whole Christmas story from top to bottom. John the Baptist is born to a family that is too old to have children. Jesus Christ is born to a woman who is too young and shouldn't be having children yet. And yet these are the two people that God chooses to bring his Messiah into the world. A couple that's so old that they shouldn't be having kids, and a young lady who's so new in her married life, she's not even really married yet, that she shouldn't be having kids. God didn't choose anybody in the middle that would have fit the task. Why? Because it's not impossible for him. We don't need to see the how. We need to see the who. I stand in the presence of God, and I have been sent to speak to you. I.E. it is God saying all of this, not the messenger. Zach, when you read the word of God, it's still God speaking. We shouldn't be distracted by our human problems when we should be looking at the promise that was laid out for us. I stand in the presence of God, I have been sent to speak to you, and fine. Since you don't want to believe me, you get to be mute until the day this happens. See, I think the mutinous is a rebuke, but it's also a sign. It's also a sign. If you read the rest of the story, look what happens. When the baby is born, the family who are around him are confused about Elizabeth wanting to name him John, because there are no Johns in his family, and so they ask Zechariah, they give him a tablet, because they know he still can't talk. They give him a tablet, he writes down his name is John, and his mouth is loose. So it was a rebuke, but it was also a sign. It was also a symbol, it was a reminder of how powerful God is. That I'll just take away your ability to speak until your baby is born, and then when he writes that out, his name is John, that's faith in the who, not the how, faith in the who, and ultimately that sign is released. So go ahead and take me out to the title graphic. How do we take this passage and live it? I know every December we have to talk about Christmas. How do we live out Christmas? For me, it comes down to the simple fact. When you realize that all of the New Testament is standing on the foundation of the Old Testament. I know that sounds like a super simple statement, right? The New Testament stands on the foundation of the Old Testament. But Joe, what does that really mean? Just like in October when we looked at Revelation, you can't interpret the New Testament correctly without the framing of the Old Testament. God promised His covenant people a forever king. As we go through this series this month, I want you to just keep notice how many times that Davidic line comes up. How many times a son of David, a king of David. Why? Because Jesus came not just to save Gentiles, but to fulfill God's promise to God's covenant people. If God, after 400 years of silence, can remember His beloved chosen people and miraculously send two babies to restore them, then I've got to believe that God's not going to forget me in my time of need either. That's what I want you to get out of this series. I want you to watch and see as we unfold and unpack each of these angelic messages. How God is not doing a new thing. He's doing what He planned and what He promised all along. And we, Sarah Grace, we get to be part of that today. It wasn't just for us. Sometimes I think we can get so immersed in the New Testament and get into the theology of Romans or the challenging life issues of James that we forget all of this had a preface. It had a prequel. God's promises. We can go all the way back to the Garden of Eden if I had time to unpack the Garden of Eden well and you could see the promise of Jesus all the way back in Adam and Eve.