This morning will be the final message in the thankful series. Now if you've not been here for all of thankful, that is okay. What we've been doing is we have been examining in this month where I think there's a special meal coming up. I think it's Thursday and we eat a certain kind of food and you know, as you can tell I don't miss a whole lot of meals. So I love holidays that center around eating because that's awesome. I think it's another excuse to eat yummy food. And so I thought why not spend a few weeks and examine the biblical concept of thankful. What does it mean? And so let me take a look at the key thought that has been sort of running through each of these messages this morning. Here's your key thought. Being thankful is an expression of the mouth, not just an attitude of the heart. Being thankful is an expression of the mouth, not just an attitude of the heart. When we began our study in this a few weeks ago, we pulled up the primary Hebrew words in the Old Testament and the Greek word in the New Testament for thankful. It translates into give thanks, be thankful, give praise, sing unto. There's a lot of outside verbal words that go to that and that's exactly why. Because in a true biblical sense of the word, Mr. Dusty being thankful is not just how you feel when you read an awesome Hallmark card or see a cute drawing that your daughter, because your daughter is an amazing artist, I have seen, I have proved, I've seen it on Instagram that your daughter is an amazing artist. But being thankful is not just the way we feel. Mr. Zach in a biblical sense, being thankful is how we speak. And so we first looked at being thankful for who God is. Last week we looked at being thankful for what God has done. And this week we're going to conclude with being thankful for what God will do. Being thankful for what God will do. So if you'll turn with me to the book of Psalms, Psalm 106. If you're using a traditional Bible, you can just stick your finger right into the middle of the book and you will likely find Psalms. If you're like me and you're using a digital Bible, please don't try to poke through your screen. That's not how that works. So we're going to look at Psalm 106. Now like last week, I will go ahead and tell you this up front. Psalm 106 is sort of a long Psalm. There's a lot to it. But I don't want to shortchange and I don't want to skim or be skimpy on walking through it. So we're going to walk through, you know, I always read from over here. I'm going to read from this side, Zach. Is that okay? Can I do that? Nobody really yells at me so I guess I can stand here too. So this is Psalm 106 and on the screen I have it for you in the NIV or the New International Version. Here's how it reads. Praise the Lord. Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His love endures forever. Who can proclaim the mighty acts of the Lord or fully declare his praise? Blessed are those who act justly, who always do what is right. Remember me, Lord, when you show favor to your people. Come to my aid when you save them, that I may enjoy the prosperity of your chosen ones, that I may share in the joy of your nation and join your inheritance in giving praise. We have sinned. Even as our ancestors did, we have done wrong and acted wickedly. When our ancestors were in Egypt, they gave no thought to your miracles. They did not remember your many kindnesses and they rebelled by the sea, the Red Sea. Yet he saved them for his name's sake to make his mighty power known. He rebuked the Red Sea and dried it up. He led them through the depths as though a desert. He saved them from the hand of the foe, from the hand of the enemy he redeemed them. The waters covered their adversaries. Not one of them survived. Then they believed his promises and sang his praise. But they soon forgot what he had done and did not wait for his plan to unfold. In the desert, they gave in to their craving. In the wilderness, they put God to the test. So he gave them what they asked for, but sent a wasting disease among them. In the camp, they grew envious of Moses and of Aaron, who was consecrated to the Lord. The earth opened up and swallowed Dathan and it buried the company of Abraene. Fire blazed among their followers. A flame consumed the wicked. At Horeb, they made a calf and worshipped an idol cast from metal. They exchanged their glorious God for an image of a bull which eats grass. They forgot the God who saved them, who had done great things in Egypt. Miracles in the land of Ham and awesome deeds by the Red Sea. So he said he would destroy them. Had not Moses, his chosen one, stood in the breach before him to keep his wrath from destroying them. Then they despised the pleasant land. They did not believe his promise. They grumbled in their tents and did not obey the Lord. So he swore to them with an uplifted hand that he would make them fall in the wilderness. Make their descendants fall among the nations and scatter them throughout the land. They yoked themselves to the ball of Peor and ate sacrifices offered to lifeless gods. They aroused the Lord's anger by their wicked deeds and a plague broke out among them. But Phineas stood up and intervened and the plague was checked. That was credited to him as righteousness for endless generations to come. By the waters at Miraba they angered the Lord and trouble came to Moses because of them. For they rebelled against the Spirit of God and rash words came from Moses' lips. They did not destroy the peoples as the Lord had commanded them. But they mingled with the nations and adopted their customs. They worshipped their idols which became a snare to them. They sacrificed their sons and daughters to false gods. They shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan. And the land was desecrated by their blood. They defiled themselves by what they did. By their deeds they prostituted themselves. Therefore the Lord was angry with his people and abhorred his inheritance. He gave them into the hands of the nations and their foes ruled over them. Their enemies oppressed them and subjected them to their power. Many times he delivered them, but they were bent on rebellion and they wasted away in their sin. He took note of their distress. When he heard their cry for their sake, he remembered his covenant and out of his great love he relented. He caused all who held them captive to show them mercy. Save us, Lord, our God, and gather us from the nations that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise. Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel. From everlasting to everlasting, let all the people say, Amen. Praise the Lord. I realize that was a rather long passage of scripture. So before I break this down, I want to sort of show you my outline for how I've divided up Psalm 106. So first, in the first five verses, the psalmist finds his identity in God and God's covenant with God's people. The reason I say the psalmist is unlike the past two weeks, there is no extra biblical evidence to tell us who wrote Psalm 106. Psalm 105 was in 96. We had additional verses that would tell us it was from David. This one's not, so since many of you may not know this, there's like five separate authors in the book of Psalms. David is only one of them. Asaph was another one. So since I'm really not sure, Miss Janie, which guy wrote it, I'm just going to refer to him or her as the psalmist from here on out. So in the first five verses, the psalmist finds his identity in God and God's people. And then starts this pattern of confession and redemption, confession and redemption. So in verses 6 through 12, we see that they dismissed God from their thoughts, then God redeems them. Then in verses 13 through 23, they were distracted by selfishness and pride, and God redeems them. Then there's the third section in 24 to 31, their discontent led to disbelief and disobedience, and God redeems them. And then the fourth one from 32 to 46, they denied their holiness and gave devotion to idols, and then God redeems them. And then finally, in the last two verses, 47 and 48, the psalmist brings it back to his time and his voice, his tone, and he closes it out. So that's how I'm going to try to, I'm not going to go verse by verse through all, I don't even know how many verses there are, 48. I'm not going to go through all 48 verses, but I am going to try to attack each one of these sections, because I believe there's some really cool truths in there. So let's take a look at point one. The psalmist finds identity and future hope in God. So let's look at the first few verses here. Praise the Lord, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, his love endures forever. Now that first sentence there, praise the Lord, in the original Hebrew is one word. Does anybody, yes, Mr. Pete, say it. Hallelujah. Hallelujah is not a word in Hebrew, it's actually a contraction. Hallelujah literally means halal, which means to praise, and yah, J-A-H, which is the abbreviation for God's Hebrew name Jehovah. So literally when you say hallelujah, what you are doing is you are contracting halal and Jehovah together. It is literally a sentence that says, praise the Lord, praise Jehovah. So that's really the first word there. Hallelujah, give thanks to the Lord. Now that word give thanks, there again is that word we've been following, yadach, which means to praise the Lord out loud. Just look at these opening sentences. Praise the Lord, that's out loud. Give thanks to the Lord, out loud, for he is good, his love endures forever, his character. Who can proclaim out loud his mighty acts of the Lord or fully declare out loud his praise? As we get into this, there's that same theme. God's people praise God out loud. We should, in our daily routine, spend time praising God out loud. Now, I do this most often in my car because nowadays it's very common for your car to have wireless Bluetooth. So when you pull up at a red light and you just see someone talking in their car, it's less and less likely that they think you have psychosis and more likely that they just assume you're on the phone. Five or ten years ago, that really wasn't the case. So I actually got a Bluetooth thing and I would just put it on my ear and I would just continue to pray. That way people didn't think I was crazy. Of course, Jason, the cat's out of the bag. Everyone just used to me being crazy. And so now I get away with it. Well, what I want you to see here is, one, two, three, four lines down. Blessed are those who act justly, who always do what is right. The psalmist has a clear expectation that holy living leads to future blessing. Look at it again. Blessed are those who act justly, who do what is right. What does that mean? That those who act justly and do what is right will be blessed or are blessed. There's an expectation on behalf of the psalmist that the way he lives will affect future blessing. And then, remember me, Lord, when. Remember me, Lord, when. Mr. Don, if I had to say to you, will you please remember me when, the automatic context is that I'm asking you to do something in the future. I can't go back in time and say, Ms. Ilona, will you remember me when last year you did such and such? You can't do that. Automatically, when he says, remember me, Lord, when, we are now referring to a future event, something that has not occurred yet. Remember me when, when what? When you show favor to your people. Look at this. Remember me, that ended up your people. Come to my singular aid when you save them, plural. That I, singular, may enjoy the prosperity of your chosen ones, plural. You see that in each of those sentences, he's seeing himself as a component of the overall people of God. This psalmist has found his identity as one of the people of God. Lord, remember me when you show favor to your people. And then finally, he says down here that I may share in the joy of your nation and join your inheritance in giving praise. A lot of people don't realize that that's the primary praise of the people of God. Our inheritance, our primary inheritance, this is not store for yourselves, treasures in heaven. This is not remember to take your Amex and your MasterCard because they don't take Visa in heaven. This is what is our primary inheritance as being grafted into the people of God. We get an eternity to praise God's name. And he's clearly seeing himself here in linking into the people of God and the future delivering of wherever he's at right now. Whenever this psalm is written in redemptive history, clearly he needs to be reminded of what God is going to do in the future. So now that's our context. Our psalmist sees himself as a member of the people of God. He is calling those promises, remember me when, for a future element. And now he's going to encourage himself and us. So let's start with the first of these four, what I'm calling confession and redemptions together. As you noticed here, he's going to recount, again, he's going to recount through a lot of what the people of God have gone through in the Old Testament. But I think what's really neat is what he recounts. So here's the first one, that they dismissed God's from their thoughts, verses 6-12. I already read it all once so I'm going to try to abbreviate some of this story. Verses 6-12, we have sinned. Mr. Pete, do you notice that his collective identity not only accepts the blessings of the future, but he says we have sinned. He also identifies with the sin of God's people. So it's not just, hey, I'm a member of the nation of Abraham, I'm going to inherit this land, but until such time I get to do what I want. No, he clearly is measuring himself against the law of God because he says we have sinned. What is sin, especially in an Old Testament Jewish context, sin is breaking the law, breaking the law of God. So that collective identity follows through. We have sinned even as our ancestors. Now he's not only identifying with the blessings from his people, he is now accepting the reality that he is falling in with the same sin that his ancestors have done in the past. When we were in Egypt, so where are we in the biblical story? Which story is it that Jacob sends his sons and they go into Egypt the first time? The story of Joseph. That's found primarily at the end of the book of Genesis, like chapter 35 to the end is the story of Joseph. And as we talked about last week, the story of Joseph is not as much about Joseph as it is about God's people. God sent a famine in order to drive his children into that Egyptian incubator so that they're protected by the nation of Egypt. They're fed, they're monetary system, they're soldiers, they're guarded and they're allowed to just be blessed, be fruitful and multiply. And they did. Up until the point that they became so great that the Egyptians were like, hey, they're scared of the mass. Not only are they amassing a great number, but they don't serve in the Egyptian army. They're not required to obey all the Egyptian laws. Because if you look at what Pharaoh said to Joseph, he permitted the people of God to worship Jehovah even while in their pagan land. So they're not answering to their Egyptian pantheon. They're not having to serve in military service. They're just being blessed. They're just living on somebody else's back 40 with no bills being blessed. I got to say that's not too bad of a situation. But somewhere in the middle of all that being blessed and being multiplied, they forgot. They gave no thought. While they were in Egypt, God's people did not give thought to him or his word. Have you ever noticed that it seems like we are so much more apt to think, Miss Ilona, we're so much more apt to think about God when things go bad. Can anybody else agree with that? You don't have to raise your hand. You don't have to call it out. But isn't it so much easier to be fervent in prayer when there's a crisis looming on the edge? It's so much easier to go, oh Lord, I've got to spend time with you. Why? Because you really want something from God. Not to give something to God. His people forgot who he was, yet he saved them. I want you to see, look at this very bottom line. He saved them for what? For his namesake and to make his power known. Go to the next one. So he rebukes and corrects his children. He brings them out of Egypt with a great eye named Moses. Totally epic story. The water of the Red Sea stands up. So not only do they forget about God, but he forgives them. Now let's take a look at the second one. So that's our first one. Second one. They were distracted by selfishness and pride, and yet God is still going to forgive them. Take a look at verses 13-23. But soon, I can't even imagine, Bill, how? Okay, okay, okay. Let's just talk a minute. How can you experience the ten plagues of Egypt? How can you walk on the dry, as it says, desert? Even the floor of the Red Sea was dry. It was dry with walls of water standing on either side. Possibly the most epic miracle in the Bible, aside from the empty tomb of Christ. How can you experience that and forget about it? How do you do that? How selfish, how prideful, how arrogant do you have to be to be the actual people of God who walked on the parted Red Sea? And then they soon forgot. They soon forgot how awesome God was. You know what I bet you they didn't forget? I bet you they didn't forget all the silver and gold they hacked out of Egypt on their way out. They didn't forget that because we know they make the calf in a minute. They collect all that silver and gold and make their own idol. But soon they forgot what he had done. And then what happens because they forgot? They did not wait on God. One of the biggest reasons I believe people do not have patience in their faith walk with Jesus is they forget all the awesome things God has done. And in the midst of a crisis looming or in the midst of a little bit of a stressful moment, rather than go, you know what, God was faithful to me at this time. He was faithful to me at this time. I believe he'll be faithful to me now. I just haven't seen it yet. Rather than do that, we forget. Andrew, we forget the things that God has done. We don't remind ourselves of the things God has done. And then like the children of Israel here, they did not wait for his plan to unfold. And then in the desert they give in to their craving in the wilderness, and they put God to the test. I am just floored all the time until I think of my own life. And Shane, how many times do I believe God has done something for me, and I passed it off as coincidence or luck or oh, that went my way that time, and not see it for what it really was, God's providential hand moving in the life of one of his children. Sometimes we don't give God the credit for the things that are actually him, working in our midst, working around us. And then when we deny the credit to God for what he has done, we deny ourselves the encouragement of remembering what he has done. And then we fall into exactly what happened here. They gave in to their cravings. The flesh doesn't want to wait. They want it now. God had a plan. God had a plan to bless his people. God had a plan to bring them into the promised land. And if they couldn't wait for Moses to come down from Sinai with the Ten Commandments, they had to make their own idol to worship. Why? Because they had already forgotten about all, like Jason. Jason, can you imagine what it would have been like to know, to see, just the night of the angel of death, just that one night, you take Lucas and Aidan and you slaughter the lamb, and you guys put the blood over your front door, and then you huddle in fear all night long, because you don't really know it's going to work yet. Like we get the benefit of hindsight. Mr. Don, we get the benefit of reading the whole story knowing that the blood of the lamb in Exodus points to the blood of the lamb in John. We get to know that, but they didn't. That was the very first night. And I'm sure at one point, Aidan or Lucas turns to you and says, Dad, is this really going to work? Because I really like my brother. Is this going to work? And all of that fear, that trembling, that terror wears off when you're no longer under the thumb of slavery. When you're free on somebody's back 40 to camp where you want, all of a sudden needing to remember the things of God became a whole lot less important. So take me forward again. The earth opened up and swallowed Dathan. It buried the company, and I'm sure everyone knows exactly who that is, because I didn't when I was studying with it. Which one is that again? And so I had to look it up. So if you want to look it up, in your notes, write down Numbers 16. The abbreviation of this story is Dathan and this guy, Abram, or Abreem, both of them decided that Moses and Aaron were a little too haughty, they were a little too important, and didn't understand why they thought that they were better than all of the other Israelites. Again, these guys just called down God's wrath on Egypt and got you free from slavery, but I'm going to feel like I'm equal to them. And so that's exactly what happened. Dathan and Abram, you can find it in Numbers 16, they lead a group of, it's almost like an insurrection, a mutiny, they lead a group of people up against Moses and Aaron, going, you should not be making yourselves better than us. We are a holy people. There's no need for you to be consecrated. Come down to where we are. I can't tell you how many times I've heard that. There's no reason for you to be so holy, preacher guy. Just come down here and muddle with the rest of us. Nobody really cares what movies you watch. Nobody really cares what words you use. Nobody really cares what your browser history is. Why? Because it makes everybody else feel more holy if there's not a higher standard to be held to. And so Moses goes to God and he goes, God, come on, what am I supposed to do with this? And God goes, everybody move away from their tents. Now, when the God who just parted the reed, the red C goes, hey, hey, everybody back up, watch this. I don't want to know what's about to happen. But if you read the story, what you find out is God literally opens up the ground beneath of them, swallows them, their entire tent, all of their camp, closes it back up, and then Moses goes, are we done now? And they move on. It's one little chapter. But what's really interesting to me is Mr. Jason, this is generations later, and the psalmist remembers the story because he mentioned it. That's how much they hand down their history. That's how much they read the recorded law of Moses because it's right there in number 16. But I did not, I'm sorry, Zach, unfortunately as a pastor I don't have the entire scripture on recall, so I had to look that story up. I was like, wait a minute, open the ground. And it's funny because as a child in Sunday school, you remember like certain things. Like I can remember that Goliath was a giant, and I remember Gideon had to drink water out of a lake, but you don't always tie it all together. So I'm sitting here on Tuesday and I'm trying to write this message going, God, what story was that? And that's what it was. A group of people try to basically have a mutiny, and God swallows them up in their land. Again, redemption from confession. Take a look at the third one. No, just keep going. There we go. Discontent led to disbelief and then disobedience, 24 to 31. Look at this opening line. They despised the pleasant land. Now, what that does not mean, Andrew, that's not the promised land. They hadn't moved into Canaan yet. This is still in that wilderness wandering period. But they despised. You know what despised means? It means to like something less than something else. So what that verse is really saying, Miss Cindy, is they preferred slavery in Egypt to freedom in the wilderness. They despised the pleasant land. How many people do you know that prefer the slavery of sin over the freedom of Christ? That's how we bring it to ourselves, our modern day context. They despised the pleasant land. They did not believe His promise. Again, this is the same generation that walked on the Red Sea. They despised the pleasant land. They did not believe His promise. They grumbled their tents and did not obey the Lord. Do you see that process there? They despised what God had given them. They give up on believing. They complain and then they get disobedient. I can make a sermon just out of that. How often, how often do we despise the blessings God has given us, neglect to believe all of His promises are true, grumble and complain about the situation we're in, and all of a sudden we find ourselves falling into disobedience. It's not a new pattern. The enemy is perfectly capable of tempting us as much as he did them. And yet, take me to the next slide. And yet, in the midst of this disobedience, God sends a plague and then a guy named Phineas. Phineas stands up and intervenes and the plague was checked. Again, confession and the Lord redeems them. Take me to the fourth one. They denied their holiness and gave devotion to idols. Are you noticing the spiral here? We are spiraling to worse and worse, if there was such a thing as worse levels of sin, more and more divergent. So take a look at this. Here's the fourth one. By the waters of Miraba, they angered the Lord. We talked about that last week. They angered the Lord. They didn't have enough food. They didn't have enough water. Moses, why did you bring us out here to die of thirst? At least in slavery in Egypt, we had food. Again, you want the slavery of sin over the freedom of God, and trusting Him to provide makes no sense to me. But I want you to see this. Go to the next one. Okay, they worship their idols. Whose idols? The idols of the ancient Canaanites. Second line. They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to false gods. There's a point in here that needs to be made, and I will do my best to make it in a gentle fashion, which I'm not really good at. So the god that they're referring to here is the ancient Canaanite god of Molech. M-O-L-E-C-H, or it can be spelled a different way. And what you would do is, Molech was a human hybrid. So he had the body of a man, and he had the head of a large bull. And what they would do is, they would make a steel statue, a metal statue of Molech. And so it would stand really, really tall, and his center section, where the womb would be, his center bosom was hollow. And there would be a fire that was kindled within the bosom of Molech. And what parents would do is, parents, you would come and take your firstborn child and put it in the statue and burn it alive. And by doing that, you are... Shane, you're not firstborn, right? Well, then praise God your mama doesn't worship idols, huh? And what you would do, Zach, you would too, bro. Like, you're the oldest brother too. And what this purpose was, I know it sounds incredibly grotesque, but what the purpose is, is they believed that by sacrificing their firstborn child, Molech would provide financial prosperity to the family. Trading a child, the life of your firstborn child, for financial prosperity. That's exactly what they're talking about. When it says they sacrificed their sons and daughters to false gods, they shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan. Go back one, Zach. I want to show you how they got there. Second to last line. But they mingled with the nations and adopted their customs. This was not something God ever designed for His children. But because they got too familiar with the culture that they lived near, all of a sudden, cultural practices became acceptable, and in reality they're not. So, now take me forward. Because they got too close and too familiar with culture, they ended up sacrificing children for financial prosperity. Now, those of you who know me, know that I am a huge stickler for a division between the pulpit and politics. I do not believe that my God-given privilege to share with you the Word of God should ever be used for political gain. However, I can't miss the obvious connotation and try to apply it to our modern-day context, because then I would be doing a poor job. So, though what I am about to say does have political ramifications, here's my little asterisk, Jason. It's not meant to be political. I am not going to expedite what this says and bring it into our modern-day context. So, how do we do this? Well, I think it's very simple. I think people today still sacrifice their children for financial prosperity. Today we just call it abortion instead of idol worship. But what is it really? The reality is, it is the giving up of a life in order to have financial freedom. I've heard people say, well, I just don't have the time for a kid. I don't have the right stage of life for a child. Fine, give the baby up for adoption. I was raised by my aunt and uncle. After my mother died, my father gave me away. I am a standing example that you can be raised by people who are not your biological parents and still turn out half normal. Well, you do, but I don't. Trust me, I know me. Maybe the reason you think better of me is you haven't known all of me yet. I'm making light of this because it's incredibly atrocious, but I want you to see that we're still having the same problems today that the ancient Israelites had when they got free from the slavery of Egypt. People were still sacrificing their children for the benefit of financial prosperity. They defiled themselves by what they did, by their deeds. They prostituted themselves. I've been in the back of my mind working for probably more than a year trying to find all of the old pagan idols in Scripture and where their modern day connections are to our everyday life. And Molech, so clearly. What's interesting is they would have these Molech shrines all around Canaan. They would have all these different shrines. So you could go to any shrine you wanted or clinic that you wanted and sacrifice your child to this idol for the benefit of financial prosperity. Zach, take me home. Here's the last one. Now keep going. The psalmist's cry for salvation leads back to praise. So if you remember the opening, the opening he identifies himself with the people of God. He remembers that because he is the people of God, he can inherit the promises of God. Then he admits that as the people of God we've sinned, we go through these four different stages of confession and redemption. And then here in the final verses of the psalm, we bring it back to the psalmist's modern day time. Save us, Lord our God, and gather us. You see all the plural language there? Save us, Lord our God, gather us, that identity is still there, from the nations that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise. Praise be to the Lord God of Israel. So whatever the psalmist is going through, he's asking the Lord to remember him in the future. And then here he closes it out again. Save us, Lord our God, and gather us. Why? Because you've done it before. When we were in Egypt and we forgot who you were, you remembered us and saved us. And when we were outside of Egypt in the wilderness, and we got distracted by selfishness and pride, you remembered us and you saved us. When we started mixing with other gods, which we got discontent and disbelief and disobedience and idol worship, you saved us then. So God, whatever mess is going on right now, I believe you'll save me then. Because of what you did in my past, in the past of my people, I believe you will be there for me in the future. How do we take all of this into our modern day context and be thankful out loud for what God has done? Well I think it's pretty simple. The church today needs to remember its identity in Jesus, not in its branding. And I'm a graphic designer, I love branding, don't get me wrong. I love art. I love all kinds of art. But whatever logo is on the sign doesn't get people to heaven. Whatever denominational affiliation the church is connected to doesn't open the other side of heaven and get you in. There are no special seating sections in the sanctuary of heaven. I promise, I promise. It's not there. Jesus is the identity that we should have. Jesus is the person we should seek to live after. Jesus is the reason we're here at all. Nothing but the blood of Jesus. The church needs to remember to find its identity in Jesus. Because I believe some of us have dismissed God from our daily thoughts. You can take me out to the graphic now, this is the quote. I believe some of us have dismissed God from our day to day thoughts. We get up, we have our coffee, we go to work, put the kids on the school bus, go, we do our work all day long, then we come home, gosh, I'm tired, kick off my shoes, eat some dinner, binge watch some Netflix, go to sleep, coffee, do it all over again. And yet somewhere in that pattern there should have been time for God. I also believe some of us are distracted by our own selfishness and pride. By our own needs. God, if you really had my best interest at heart, you would have, fill in the blank with whatever your current situation is. I believe if we reconnect with our identity in Jesus, it'll get us past our selfishness and pride. Some of us have allowed the discontent of life to lead to disobedience and disbelief. Let me ask a simple question. I know with the number of people in this room, at least one or two of you are currently living in a challenging circumstance. Do you think your circumstance is a surprise to God? Do you think He looked down and all of a sudden went, oh, Pete, when did that happen? Holy Spirit, give me my notes. What happened? Why is she going through that? You really believe that's what God is like? No, I think He knew your circumstance was coming long before you did. And if He knew it was coming before you did, and He allowed it, then that means He will carry you through it. But when you get distracted, you all of a sudden give in to discontent, I need a better job, I need better clothes, I need a better cell phone, I need to fill in the blank. When you become discontent, the danger of disbelief and disobedience is very shortly behind. And then finally, I believe some of us have given up our holiness. We've mingled too much with the culture around us, and we've forgotten the simple sentence, Be holy because I am holy. What does holy mean? It means to be set apart. Some of you may have heard this analogy before. How many people grew up in a home that had guest towels? I did. Anybody else have guest towels? Okay, those of you who didn't, my home was, my parents had a bathroom inside their suite, and then my bedroom was across from the guest bathroom. And so whenever we would have company come over, we put away the ratty crappy teenage towels, and we brought out the nice, the guest towels. And what is the purpose of a towel? To dry your hands off after you've washed your hands. But for some reason, when guests come over, the purpose of the towel is not only to dry your hands, but it's to make the bathroom look fancy. And so my mother would swap out all of my weekly grody towels for the cool decorative embroidered towels. It's not that the towel can't sit, so you know what I'm saying, right? Guest towels. The function's not different, but the purpose changes everything. If you would truly understand who you are in Christ, you would tolerate the filthy grubby around you, because you'd realize the reality is you're already the fancy embroidered towel. That's what it means to be set apart. To be set apart for a different purpose. My mom would never ever, she'd make me bring in my own towel from my bedroom if I was outside and I was grody and sweaty. Don't wipe your hands with my guest towels. Grandma's coming, those need to be looking good. We had these white ones that were all white towels with white embroidered snowmen. Oh Lord help me if you ever got those things messy. Why? But why is it so okay? Andrea, why is it so okay that we will protect a white linen guest towel and not protect our own holiness? Drop that one. There's no difference. You know what it really is? You don't see yourself as a guest towel. You don't see yourself as having a purpose better than what it is. That's what I want you to take from Psalm 106. I want you to realize that if you struggle to see yourself as a guest towel, you have an identity problem, not a God problem. God wants you to have your identity in Him. You still have your identity in whatever it happens to be.