We are going to continue our series entitled The End of Days this morning. We began the series last week and we are purposely looking at the book of Revelation. What does the Bible say is going to happen at the end of the world? What's going to happen when the world ends? Well, Miss Lisa, conventional Hollywood wants to teach us that the world is going to end in a single like 12-hour cataclysmic event, whether it's a meteor or a winter storm or what have you. That's not exactly going to be the case. The Bible describes a very specific series of events that will all be happening and that's what I want to review with you. So the key thought for our series this morning and for the next several weeks, the key thought is the fact that the end of the world is really a series of events, not a singular happenstance. The Bible describes several consecutive events that are all taking place, not just Mr. Don one shot. Last week when we started looking at it, we started looking at the framework that the Old Testament was going to give us. We looked at, remember we talked about putting a puzzle together? What do you do when you put a puzzle together? First, you put together the outsides. We went back to Genesis, through the Old Testament, into the New Testament and we created four sides of the puzzle. Now if you were not here for last Sunday's message, it is available for you on reedswood.com. You can listen to it. Mr. Zach, I'm recording in my pocket so we'll just run with it. That's why you always want to have a backup plan. So on reedswood.com you can find last Sunday's message and now that I've got a backup plan, this one will be there too. When you start building a puzzle, we build four sides. We talked about four covenants or promises from God that were in the Bible that give us the framework or the outside of our puzzle. Does anybody remember one of those four promises? Close, Palestinian. Palestinian, that's right. The Palestinian covenant, that's one. The Davidic covenant, that's one. The Abrahamic covenant and what's the last one? The new covenant, that's right. The Abrahamic covenant, the Palestinian covenant, the Davidic covenant and the new covenant. Find the framework or the frame, the outside that we are now going to begin exploring what's going on. So there's our key thought. The end of the world is a series of events. Now the title of this morning's message is End of Days, The Rapture. The Rapture. We want to talk about the rapture. And first I want to explain what is the rapture. I want to show you where it is in scripture because some people say, well the rapture is not in the Bible. It is, I promise you just have to kind of look because we have, remember we're reading, Jesus didn't speak English. Remember that. So we're reading a translation of the different languages that Jesus spoke. So the first thing I want you to do, Mr. Zach, are we having technical problems on the computer as well? Yeah, something popped up. Okay. Oh good. So here we go. The rapture. Give me my first point. I want to show you what it is and then I'm going to show you how it happens. So what is the rapture? Dead and living Christians are caught up in the air. This is what it means. Dead and, so this is everybody who's believed in Jesus. Ms. Sarah, everybody who trusted in Jesus from the book of Acts all the way through to today, Mr. Pete, to whenever the Lord decides he is no longer going to Terry and he comes back. When the Lord comes back, we are all caught up in the air. Take a look at this. We tell you this directly from the Lord. We who are still living when the Lord returns will not meet him ahead of those who have died for the Lord himself will come down from heaven with a commanding shout, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet call of God. First the believers who have died will rise from their graves. Then together with them, we who are still alive and remain on the earth will be caught up in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And we will be with him forever. This is the big moment. This is the Ms. Nancy, we no longer have to wait. We get to be with Jesus. This is Ms. Ilona, this is the hope. This is what Christians have been hoping for since the book of Acts all the way through to today. This is the big hope that there will be a day when we get to be caught up in the air with the Lord. And it says we will be with the Lord forever. It is at this moment that the Lord raptures or collects his church and then we are with him from that moment on. This is, now I would like to say, I know that there are several schools of thought when it comes to this specific event, the rapture. There is the pre-trib thought, which is the rapture happens prior to the seven year tribulation. There is the mid-trib school, which means the rapture happens at some point but usually in the middle of the tribulation. And then there is the post-trib school of thought that says the rapture happens after the tribulation. I, myself, I am in the pre-trib camp. So this morning I am going to present the pre-trib view. Ms. Ilona, do I think I can be wrong? Yes ma'am. I think I am human, I am fallible, I study to the best of my ability. I'll tell you this though, when the Lord raptures his church we are all going to know. Regardless of when these events happen, I do believe that the rapture is what kicks off the end of days clock. However, I will also admit there are other theologians who disagree with me and there are some valid points to be had. But this morning I am going to present to you the pre-trib rapture view. Now the second thing that people want to say Mr. Don is, well the word rapture is not in the Bible so we can't believe it. Yes and no. Number one, the word trinity is not in the Bible. That doesn't mean the theological concept is not there. Doesn't mean that we don't see Father, Son and Holy Spirit interacting as one. The word rapture, you're right, it's not there in English. But let me show you something. On this line right here, do you see where it says, will be caught up in the clouds, will be caught up? Do me a favor, underline, circle, long press, highlight, whatever you need to do. The word will be caught up is the Latin verb rapturo. Guess what that translates to in English? Rapture. This is where we get the word, the actual English word rapture from. It is a translation of the verb that's there, will be caught up. So if somebody says the rapture is not in the Bible, the concept is here. Clearly scripture says we will be caught up. But in English we call it caught up, not rapturo. Rapturo is where we get the word rapture from. And then really the word rapture, Mr. John in English, represents this concept that we will be instantaneously and momentarily caught up into the clouds to be with the Savior. First, the believers who have died will rise from their graves. Then together with them, we who are still alive and remain on the earth will be caught up in the clouds. For those of you who may have read or seen the Tim LaHaye Left Behind series, Book 1 of Left Behind starts out here because all of the Christians have been rapturoed. They've been caught up and the story starts with those who are left behind. That's where the whole story gets its idea from. So even there, it's really just the negative outcropping of this idea of being caught up. So what I want you to understand about the rapture is those of us who believe in Christ, who have accepted him as Savior, we are part of his church, whether we pass away before he returns or if he returns within our earthly life, which is absolutely possible, we will be caught up with him. Okay? All right, Mr. Zach, let's go forward to the next one. The rapture is imminent. Imminent. There is a theological concept called the concept of imminent return. When we read the New Testament, when we read the ending of the Gospels, when we read the Book of Acts, we see the disciples believing that the Lord is going to return any day. They even said in his post-resurrected form, will you now restore the kingdom to Israel? There was an expectation that at any moment the Lord may call his church together. Now those of you who are a Bible study on Wednesdays, you can take five for like three minutes. I want to explain something to everyone else. When we look at biblical prophecy, it's sort of like looking at a mountain range at a distance. If you were to look at a mountain range, Mr. Don, you could probably see the outline of the different mountains against the sky. But from a long ways off, what you can't see is how far apart two mountains are. All you see is the peaks going laterally. You don't really get the depth, Mr. Dusty, that there's five miles between that first mountain peak and the second mountain peak. That's really the way biblical prophecy is. In the Old Testament, they had no way to know that there would be 400 years of silence between Malachi to Matthew. They couldn't know that. They only could go off of what the Lord was showing him. Like too in the Book of Acts, the disciples had no idea that the Lord would tarry for 2,000 years. Praise God he did because his grace is extended to us. But there's nothing that says, oh well, that we know, and because what does the Bible say? That no one knows the day and the time that Christ will return. So that's why we default to what's called the eminent return position. When the Son of Man returns, it will be like it was in Noah's day. In those days before the flood, the people were enjoying banquets and parties and weddings right up to the time Noah entered his boat. People didn't realize what was going to happen until the flood came and swept them all away. That is the way it will be when the Son of Man comes. Two men will be working together in the field. One will be taken. The other left. Two women will be grinding flour at the mill. One will be taken. The other left. So you too must keep watch for you don't know what day your Lord is coming. Understand this. If a homeowner knew exactly when a burglar was coming, he would keep watch and not permit his house to be broken into. You also must be ready all the time for the Son of Man will come when least expected. That is Jesus himself describing his second coming. Now that term Son of Man, you can see it there on the last line. Those of you who are on Wednesday night, what does Son of Man or Wednesday day, what does Son of Man mean? It is an Old Testament term for the promised Messiah. Thank you so much. Anybody remember from where? Daniel chapter 7 verse 13. Gold stars for Mr. and Ms. Ilona and Mr. Zach. That is a prophetic term from the Old Testament. Jesus is pointing at himself. He's saying, Ms. Cheryl, I'm the Messiah. I'm coming back. But when I do, it's going to be a surprise. And he references the days of Noah. If you go back into the book of Genesis and you read the story in the days of Noah, it had never rained. Noah's building a boat in the middle of dry land and it had never rained. And I'm sure there was more than one neighbor that thought of him as kooky Noah, that kooky God follower, that kooky boat builder. Until in a moment, in an instant, in a twink of an eye, God moved. And all of a sudden, Noah's faith was justified. But by then, it was too late for everyone else who was outside the boat. So too, Jesus is using that analogy to describe his return. It will be soon. I cannot tell you, Ms. Janie, I cannot tell you if it's going to be Tuesday or Wednesday or right now. Okay, so it wasn't right then. I can't tell you when it's going to happen, but I can tell you this. It'll happen in the blink of an eye. And in a blink of an eye, all those people, Ms. Lisa, all those people who have doubted the veracity of the word of God, all of those people who have doubted whether Jesus was really the true savior, they will know in a moment because the Lord's going to verify his word is true. Unfortunately, those who are caught at that moment unbelieving will not be joining us in the rapture. Now we'll talk about what happens after that as the weeks unfold. So I want you to understand that not only will we be caught up in the air, we will be rapturoed, that's where that word comes from, but it will also happen very whenever. I can't tell you when because I believe the Lord doesn't want it that way, Mr. P. We must all, and think about this. If we knew that Jesus was not coming back for 300 years, where would the fire for evangelism be? If we knew Jesus not coming back till 23, 24, guess when people would start evangelizing? 23, 23. Oh, let's save everybody. No, the fact that we do not know when the Lord returns, Josh, that motivates the gospel because if he could come back at any time, I'd better be on my game. I'd better make sure my friends and family have heard the word of the Lord. Here's the next point. Jesus himself will rapture the church. Don't let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God and trust also in me. There is more than enough room in my father's home. If this were not so, would I have told you that I am going to prepare a place for you? When everything is ready, I will come and get you so that you will always be with me where I am. Now, the first thing I want to point out is that that last sentence fragment, so that you will always be with me where I am. Mr. Shane, when this event happens, when the rapture happens, we are with our Savior forever. There's still other events that will unfold. There is still plenty of things that are going to happen, but the great promise is at this moment, everyone who is alive whenever that moment happens and everyone who has trusted in Jesus prior to that moment are with the Savior forever. But I also want you to see this. It's Jesus himself coming back for his church. When Jesus came in his first incarnation, Mr. Charles, I think the Jews were a little confused. They were looking for their king. They were looking for that guy that was going to be in the Davidic line, who was going to reestablish the throne of David, who was going to beat back those evil pagan Romans, who was going to give us our kingdom back. But that wasn't God's plan. God's plan was for Christ's first coming to be the suffering servant and the second coming to be the conquering king. This is the second coming we're talking about. The Lord has already come and the whole Nativity story and Christmas, we'll talk about that in a few months. The Lord came in his first incarnation, Mr. John, by his grace so that those of us who were not born descendants of Abraham could know the grace and love of God. When he comes back this time, he is coming as the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, to collect his church and then to begin setting up his kingdom. I'm going to hold my thoughts on, I go to prepare a place for you because I have a really cool point that I want to close with. So Mr. Zach, we will have new bodies at the rapture. This is usually the point where all the ladies in the church look at me and be like, so what kind of figure do I get with my new glorified body? I don't know. Let me tell you what I do know. But we are citizens of heaven where the Lord Jesus Christ lives and we are eagerly waiting for him to return as our savior. He will take our weak mortal bodies and exchange them into glorious bodies like his own. If you've ever heard the term glorified body, glorified body, this is the theological term for the body that the Lord will give us at this moment. Now people always want to say, well, Bill, what is our glorified body is going to be like? I don't know. The best thing I can tell you, Mr. Dusty, the best evidence I can give you is if our glorified bodies are like, and this is a big if because Jesus is still God Almighty, but if the earthly body that the Lord had post his resurrection. Remember if you track the story of the gospels, Jesus is born at the beginning of the gospels. He ministers through the breadth of the gospels. He dies and resurrects at the end of the gospels. How long is Jesus on earth post resurrection before his ascension? Does anybody remember? Forty days. I love y'all are so brilliant. Forty days. For 40 days, Jesus walked the earth in a resurrected body. And if we look at some of the clues that we have from his resurrected body, he was able to be touched. His disciples were able to touch him. Why? Because he said, Thomas, to put your hand in my hand, put your fingers in my side. So the Lord's resurrected body was not just a hologram like thing. It was corporeal. Yet the Lord also was able to appear in the middle of a locked room with his disciples praying. Now, does that mean in our resurrected bodies, we all get the power to teleport? I don't know. Because you also have to remember Jesus is God. Jesus is God. And once he shed his mortal body, he got his omnipresence back. So he very clearly could, that could have been his God nature omnipresently moving him into the room. I don't want to say for sure that guys, if you believe in Jesus, we all get to teleport. I'm not going to say that. What I'm going to say is we get new bodies and it will be the Lord who defines them. Okay? I think that's where I'm safest. We will get new bodies and their nature, their state will be as the Lord has designed it. I don't want to go too far down this road with guessing because Ms. Michelle, that's honestly what it is. There are some clues, but I want you to take those clues with a prayerful grain of salt because I don't know how much. Because again, Jesus is the only glorified body we see. And since Jesus is the son of God, any of those characteristics could have been his godly characteristics, not necessarily just the glorified body. What I can promise you though is you get a new body. You get a new glorified body and he will exchange it from the one that you have now. Now people always ask, am I going to look the same way in my game? I really hope not. I would like to be just a little different. Mr. Pete. Jesus himself must have looked a little bit different because maybe it was because they weren't expecting him. But remember the two disciples that didn't recognize him was on the road to a mass? That's right. No, they didn't recognize him. But then when he turned and he faced Mary, Mary immediately recognized him. So again, is that part of his god nature? Choosing to reveal his glory at his time? Very well could have been. Very well could have been. Just remember, Jesus's glorified body is still on the son of God. So we may not have all of the same characteristics. Although in the story of the rich man in Lazarus, when he's in Abraham's bosom and the other man's, he knew his brothers. He said, please go and tell my brothers. So there was some carry over, some knowledge from our earthly life. So at the rapture, Jesus comes, he captures his church, both the living and the dead, and we are taken up in the clouds, rapturo. We are taken in the clouds, we get to be with him, we get a new body, and our deeds will be judged by Christ. If you're taking notes this morning, I want you to write down a four letter word. B-E-M-A. B-E-M-A. Bema. I want to talk to you about the word Bema. A lot of people miss this aspect of the rapture. What is the Bema? Well remember, the New Testament was written in first century Roman occupied Palestine. So there's a lot of imagery and words that have been included in Paul's writings, in Luke's writings, because we're in first century Palestine. That's the cultural background of the Bible. The Bema seat is a seat of judgment. It is an official seat where a governing official will sit in order to proclaim innocence or guilt or to dole out reward or to dole out a pardon. Think in the gospels when Pontius Pilate was asked to rule on Jesus, Mr. Don, he first went and he sat. Why did they include that detail? Because he sat in the Bema. He went and sat. Think about maybe, I don't know what it's called, forgive me, but you know the really, really large desks that judges sit at? We all have to stand when they walk into the courtroom and then they go and they sit and when he's in the robe and they're behind the big desk and they've got the gavel, that's that seat of authority. That's a great modern day analogy for what the Bema is. Pontius Pilate, it wasn't that Pontius Pilate was like, this day is too hard. I just got to sit down to finish adjudicating and sits down in any random seat. No, he sat down at the Bema seat of judgment and when the ruling official sits in the place of judgment, it's official rulings. So this is what the Bema is. Now keep in mind this, if you know Jesus as your savior, hell is not an option for eternity. Isn't that the grace of the gospel? And if I know Jesus, there's no risk of going to hell. My savior has already bought and paid the price for my sins that would send me to hell. So when Christians sit in the Bema seat of judgment, Mr. Zach, it's not a smoking, non-smoking sort of judgment. That judgment comes later. The Bema seat of judgment is where Christians are judged by Jesus on what criteria? The way we lived our life. Remember he said, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. When do you think those are actually given to you? You ever thought about that? Store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Well, Mr. Jed, how am I supposed to inherit those? Is there like a line? You know, do I just go up and I get my heavenly MX card and I'm allowed to then go to the quartermaster and spend it? You know, no, this is when that happens. When we are rapturoed together with Christ as a church, we immediately go to the Bema judgment. Why? Because we don't go to the hell no hell judgment. I have a savior. He has already saved me from that. There's no hell option for me as a Christian or a believer, but the deeds of my life are still laid open before my savior and my deeds still determine my eternity as far as my rewards go. Let's put it this way. How many of you do you all remember at the end of the school year, there was always the superlatives most likely to succeed funniest, most likely to go to jail? I don't know. I'm not asking anybody to raise a hand. I'm just saying, do you remember most likely to get locked up? Do you remember that those are called superlatives? Think about the Bema seat of judgment, Mr. John, as the reward ceremony. Remember we all want to hear well done my good and faithful servant. This is that moment when we as the body of Christ, as the church, we stand not before the father to be judged as worthy of heaven or hell, but before the savior to be judged against our own lives to see what rewards we would be given in eternity. This is where the rubber meets the road about living the life that Christ has called you to live. Mr. Zach, if you know Jesus, do you get to go to heaven? Yes. It wasn't a trick question. I promise. Yes. However, what rewards will you be given when you get there? That determines by the way we live our lives on this earth. I forget who I was talking to, but somebody said it very brilliantly this week. So if it was you, just raise your hand. You get credit for this next statement. The life we live here on earth is merely the audition for the full time gig in heaven. I forget which one of you it was, but somebody said it and it was really brilliant and it wasn't me, but I'm totally taking it. The life on this earth is the audition for the permanent gig with the savior. The way we live our lives here determines the rewards that we are given when we get to his kingdom. As if I know Jesus, there's no go to hell option for my life, but there is the question, what will I spend my eternity doing with my savior? I know there's this idea that we all turn into cherubs and we all get like harps. Mr. P, can you give me a witness? Not everybody should have a guitar. There are some people that you don't need a guitar. I'll get you like a kazoo or something. My father, he is not a bad guitarist. He's not. He's a much better kazoo player. When we get to the bema, we're with the savior forever. We've already seen that. That happens at the rapture. But what rewards will you be given in eternity? Well, we have the rest of our lives to serve the savior to find out what those rewards might be. Now, I want to close by giving you a little back story here, a little bit of cultural understanding. Jesus grew up in Roman controlled first century Palestine. Who is the bride of Jesus? The church, right? Please allow me to expound for you Jewish first century marriage rituals, because I think there's a very beautiful application for us as the church of Jesus Christ. When a young man finds a young lady that he would like to marry. Who am I going to pick on today? Shane, you're not married and your parents aren't here to get embarrassed. So I just get to embarrass you. This is awesome. Shane has found a young lady that he would like to spend his life with. If Shane were living in first century Jewish controlled Palestine, Shane would speak first to his father. Mr. Pete, since John's not here, you're going to fill in as Shane's dad. So Shane would speak to Mr. Pete. Dad, I have found a young woman that I'm in love with. I would like to make this young woman my bride. Shane and his father would go to the father of the young lady. Dusty, you have a daughter, so you're a dad, right? So here comes Shane and Mr. Pete. They come to you and to your wife and they say, Mr. Lawrie, my son is in love with you. We would like to negotiate a bride price with you for the privilege of my son marrying your daughter. So this is the father and the son go to the father of the bride and they broker what's called the bride price. Now at this moment, Shane and Pete have to choke up the funds. They pay Mr. Dusty the bride price for the privilege of having his daughter's hand to marry Shane. So when the contract is negotiated, the bride price is paid. However, Shane, you don't get to marry your girl yet, okay? There's a whole waiting period that has to happen. You go home and with your dad, you carve off some land off of your back 40, you build the home that you and his daughter will live in and you prepare that place. Then later when it is made, you get all of your friends. This is where the parable of the 10 virgins comes from. This is the parable of the wedding feast. All of this mirrors in this imagery. When the home is built, Shane, you and Mr. Pete and all of your friends, just like our modern wedding party, there are grooms on one side and bridesmaids on the other side, you would go over to Mr. Dusty's house. This entire time, your daughter has been living with you, but she has been promised or betrothed to another man. Cue the nativity story. This is where the relationship between Mary and Joseph is happening. It's in this contractual agreement. Once you have paid the bride price and prepared the place, you then go back to retrieve the father's daughter. You take her to your new home together and then you're finally married. See the bride price is paid and then the place is prepared and then there comes a moment of celebration when the groom comes home for his bride. Now who is the bride of Christ? The church, right? So the son went to his father who then went to earth and paid the ultimate bride price to redeem it. And then he goes to prepare a place for his bride, us. And that's where he is right now. We're in the waiting period. But there is a moment coming when the groom will return for his glorious bride. When he is done preparing that place, when he is done making it immaculate and ready for everything that his bride needs and wants, he will return for his bride and he will call her to him. And then we will go and live with him forever. That's the backstory. And I know, gentlemen, it's hard for us to think that we're a bride. I get that. Okay. Just, just put your masculinity on hold for just a minute because it's just really good. The price has been paid for us to have eternal relationship with the Savior. We call it salvation. But what it really was, Mr. Pete, it was our bride price. It was the price so that we could spend eternity with the Savior or really so that the Savior could be with us. And he bought it and he paid for it. And now he's preparing it and he will then return and he will take us to be with him. That's what the rapture is all about. So Mr. Pete, Aaron, if you guys would join me up front, this is what I want to do. We're going to have a closing song of reflection. It's going to be the last hymn that I surrender all. We're going to have a closing song of reflection in a moment. This is what I want to ask you. First and foremost, what is your relationship with the Savior like today? If he returned right now, are you paid for? Is your bride price secure? Are you going? Is Mr. Don, is he building a place for you or is he just building a place for the rest of us? And I say that to each of you. Do you have your heavenly home waiting for you, for your groom to return and make you his bride or do you just know about a groom but he's not really paid the price for you? Think about this. In our modern vestiges of marriage, what is it that the young man usually presents the young woman when he asks her to marry him? Generally, a very expensive ice skating rink. Why? Because it's the modern day vestige of Mr. Don, I'm willing to pay the price for the privilege of your hand in marriage. If we do that today and it's just a simple, of course, the one I bought my wife was the best I could buy. It wasn't simple. It was the biggest ice skating rink I could afford because she was worth it. The Savior has already paid the ultimate price for you because you're worth it. The question is really is he coming back for just you or is he coming back for just us? So do me a favor. I want you to pull out your connection card and as we sing our closing song this morning, I want you to reflect. Do you have a faith step to make today? First it says beginning life with Jesus. If you are here this morning and you do not know the Lord is your Savior, then your bride price is not paid and I hope that you would consider taking that step, accepting the free gift that came at a great cost. You can also see there rededicating my life. If you at some point before made a decision to be a Christian but you're not living like it, then today is that day to commit and say I am going to live for my Savior so that when I reach the bemah, when I reach the point where the Savior opens the book of my life, you're going to hear well done my good and faithful servant, not, okay, you can stay. You can also see there I'd like to get baptized, become a member, if you'd like to speak to the pastor. Listen, I would love to have an appointment with you this week. Let me know if there's something you want to talk about. You can also see there are several things underneath of there to participate in. What I want you to invite you to do is just reflect as we sing this song. When we close this song, we will then collect up the connection cards. If you would like to make a decision by coming forward, please do so while we're singing and we'll minister to you at that point. Thank you so much. We'll be right back. Thank you. Hymn number 596.