Now, as I told the kids, this morning we're going to be talking about the parables of the lost sheep and the lost coin. So if you brought your Bibles with you, whether they're physical or digital, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke chapter 15. Luke chapter 15. We're only going to look at the first 10 verses this morning of Luke chapter 15. Now, in the full chapter 15, you will find three parables. The first parable is the lost sheep, the second parable is the lost coin, and the third parable, which is probably the most popular, is the lost sun or the prodigal son. We will discuss the parable of the prodigal son next week. This week, however, we're going to focus on the first 10 verses. So, Luke chapter 15, I will read verses 1 through 10, and I'm reading in the NIV or the New International Version. Here's how the Scriptures read. Now, the tax collectors and sinners were gathering around to hear Jesus, but the Pharisees and the teachers of the law muttered, this man welcomes sinners and eats with them. Then Jesus told this parable. Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them. Doesn't he leave the 99 in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it? And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders and goes home. Then he calls his friends and neighbors together saying, rejoice with me! I found my lost sheep! I tell you, in the same way there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who do not need to repent. Or, suppose a woman has 10 silver coins and loses one. Doesn't she light a lamp and sweep the house and search carefully until she finds it? And when she finds it, she calls her friends and neighbors together and says, rejoice with me! I found my lost coin! In the same way I tell you, there is rejoicing in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents. I love this chapter. Miss Fran, I love Luke chapter 15. Because as we've discussed on Wednesday nights, short plug, please join us Wednesday nights at 7. You don't have to have any experience with the Bible, but I promise you'll leave learning something each week. I love Luke chapter 15 because it's that lost, I call it the lost things chapter. The parables focus on things that were lost. But I want to turn your attention first to the first two verses of what we read. Because in order to get what we need to get out of this passage, we first need to understand the audience. Whenever you study the teachings of Jesus, the first question you should ask yourself is not what did Jesus say, but Mr. Charles, to whom did Jesus say it? Because when you understand this is a conversation between Jesus and two different groups of people, there's going to be some very fun observations we can make. So let's look back at verse 1. Now the tax collectors and sinners were all gathering around to hear Jesus. Now this is going to create a very dichotomous atmosphere, because on one hand you're going to have the tax collectors and sinners. Now let's talk about tax collectors. How many people have a best friend who works for the IRS? No? Anybody? Going once, twice? Well, the IRS is not exactly as hated as the tax collectors were in the first century, but that's because you have to understand what's going on in the government. If you realize that the Jewish people are conquered and ruled by a foreign military force, big funny red hats, the Romans. And what the tax collectors did was they collected Jewish money and gave it to Roman officials. And so the Jewish community is not very happy with the tax collectors because they see them as betraying their own people. You're taking Jewish money and paying it to pagan Romans. Well the problem is, is there are penalties if you don't pay your taxes. Just like in our country there are penalties if you don't pay your taxes. Although I have to say the Romans were a little bit more stringent on their taxes. If you didn't pay your taxes they killed you. That's very simple. Pay your taxes or die. Well, I think we would all understand. Everybody kind of wants to live. And so the tax collectors serve a very necessary, albeit ugly, function for the Jewish nation. They need somebody to do the job, but unfortunately somebody draws the short end of the stick and is disliked by their people for doing their job. That's who the tax collectors are. And then of course sinners, that's kind of an obvious one. Sinner means exactly what it means. Somebody who has sin in their life and is living in a way that doesn't please God. Then look in verse 2. But the Pharisees and teachers of the law. So on one hand I have sinners and tax collectors and on the other hand I have Pharisees and teachers of Now what's the law? As Mr. Pete mentioned earlier, the law of Moses. You go back to the first five books of the Old Testament, the Pentateuch or the books of Moses. That's the Jewish law. Not just their religious law, but also their moral law, their ceremonial law. There's a lot of law in those first five books. And the Pharisees are a specifically self-righteous group of people who consider themselves to be holy because I can live the law of Moses all by myself. Miss Nancy, they are very arrogant gentlemen. Very arrogant, very religious. And just look at what they say here at the end of verse 2. This man welcomes sinners and eats with them. Emphasis added by me, of course. But what does that sentence tell you? Just, Marie, just look at that one sentence. What does that one sentence tell you about the mentality? If we talk about it as we have saints on one side and sinners on the other side, that's really not true. Technically we have sinners on one side and different sinners on the other side. But if you look at the religious people, they think they're better than everyone else. They think that they're holier than everyone else. They think that they are more pleasing to God than everyone else. And in the end of verse 2, this man welcomes sinners and eats with them. Well, I wouldn't do that. I'm so holy, I don't have any unholy friends. Well, if you understand and go back and look at the Pharisee law, they actually had a rule that said you couldn't befriend a sinner even to bring them closer to the law. Think about that for a minute. We're going to be so holy that we can't be friends with sinners because their sin might get us icky before our God makes them clean. Now that's kind of some backward logic. But that's the way the Pharisees lived. The major point that I want you to see here in verses 1 and 2 is it's the tax collectors and sinners that were gathering to hear Jesus. And it's the religious elite that were gathering to mock him. The tax collectors and sinners are there to listen to him and the Pharisees are there to judge him. And yet it was Jesus who drew in the sinners. Jesus lived perfectly. He was the Messiah. He's the one that ultimately drew in the sinners. Now, we're going to go through and look at both of these parables simultaneously. So I'm going to need your finger to jump around with me. There's four points of commonality in the two parables that I want to show you. The first is this. Jesus opens both parables with something of value being lost. That's what I was trying to teach the kids with the chocolate. Something of value has been lost. Look at the first part of verse 4. Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one. Now, I have to say, Mr. Pete, let's just you and me take a mental jog for a minute. We're standing in the Judean desert and we are looking out at the hillside with a hundred sheep on it. And then there's a hillside over there that has 99 sheep on it. Are you going to be able to tell the difference from a distance? Not likely, but the shepherd in the story does. He looks up and goes, wait a minute. There was a hundred of y'all a minute ago. The first thing I want you to notice, the shepherd noticed one sheep missing. One. It wasn't half the flock went around the bend. He noticed one sheep missing. 99 on the hillside over here, a hundred over here, and just, hey, you guys got one missing. To me, this speaks volumes about the shepherd because of the value of the one sheep. He didn't have to wait until 10 or 20 or half the group was missing. As soon as the first sheep went missing, the shepherd noticed. And then if you jump, take your finger and jump down to verse 8, where Jesus opens the parable of the coin. Suppose a woman has ten silver coins and she loses one. Now, gentlemen, this is not the point to interject a joke about your wife's shopping habits. Okay? You can give that to yourself, you can elbow your wife at lunch. But what I want to point out to you is in the same way, the woman did not wait until half the coins were gone. The moment the first coin is missing, the loss is noticed. And what I want you to see in that is, is both the missing sheep and the missing coin were valuable even while they were missing. See, Marie, we didn't have to wait until we found the sheep for the sheep to be valuable. If that's the case, we might not have ever gone looking. The shepherd thought that the lost sheep was valuable enough to go looking. The woman thought that the lost coin was valuable enough to go looking. The value is intrinsic into that which was lost even while it's in a lost state. Super important. Super important. Now, the next point of commonality here is there is an intentional search made for this valuable but lost item. Look at the end of verse four. Doesn't he leave the 99 in the open country and go after the lost sheep? And look at the last four words of this sentence. Until he finds it. This is not an instance of, Dean, what am I doing with my sheep? Look over here. No, I didn't leave it with communion. No, I didn't. You know what? Dean, it's just one sheep. We'll just go get another sheep next week. We'll go to Home Depot. We'll get an extra one. That's not what the shepherd does. That's not what the shepherd does at all. There is an intentional search made all the way until the sheep is found. Look at the end of verse eight. Doesn't she light a lamp, sweep the house, and search carefully until she finds it? Well, first thing you have to understand, why does the lady light a lamp? Because at this time in this area of the world, most dwellings were single room dwellings and they only had maybe one or two windows. So even if it's not like, you know, super bright outside, it could be a little shady. It could be a little dark. So in order to make sure the search is completed in an excellent fashion, the woman first lights a lamp. I need to make sure I can see the whole area in which I am searching. Then she sweeps the house and search carefully. And look, there's those four words again. Until she finds it. Whilst this item of intrinsic value is in a lost state, an intentional search is made and the search is not considered complete until the item of intrinsic value is found. It's not a, Sharon, we'll go look in and if not, you know, I bet you we can just pick up another one at Walmart. That's okay. We'll just replace it. No, no, no, no. There is no replacing the sheep. There is no replacing the coin because it is too valuable to the owner. So they must have an intentional search. I also want to point out both searches were active in nature. The shepherd had to physically go and search. The lady had to physically sweep and search. So it was not just a matter of, Oh, I guess I can't find it. Okay, I've done my, I tried. God, you saw that I looked, right? Yeah, okay, back onto my Big Mac. No, the search was so intentional that it required direct action going out in order to find. Your third point of commonality. The lost thing is found and then it is restored. Look in verse five. And when he, the shepherd, finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders and goes home. Now we don't see in the story of the woman in the coin, we don't see the imagery of her picking the coin up and putting it on her shoulder, but it is implied that she finds it and then she calls her friends, oh look, I found it. It's implied that she took the coin and she put it with the others. So that restoration is still there. It's just more implied and it's not quite as pretty. The shepherd goes out and he finds the lost sheep. So Mr. Charles, you and I are out. We are in the Judean wilderness. We find the lost sheep. How do you get the sheep to go back to where you want it to go? Well, we have a couple different choices. We could scold that bad, bad sheep and pop him on the nose and remind him that it was his job to stay with the group. Bad sheep. Go home and then walk beside it the whole way, making sure it goes where it needs to go. Just like a dog on a leash. It goes like, bad sheep, hey! Go home right now, come on, and walk with him the whole time. Standing over him, lording over him, making sure he stays on the path. That's one way to do it, but that's not exactly the way that Jesus lays out the shepherd. No. What does the shepherd do? Look at the middle of verse 5. Puts it on his own shoulders. Notice that whilst the sheep got lost in and of its own efforts, it got restored in and of the power of the shepherd. The sheep didn't walk itself home. It didn't go, you know, Google how do I get home. We were in Williamsburg last night and we were out to dinner. And I am horrible at directions, okay? If you need to get somewhere, please see Jason or my wife or somebody because I'm not very good with directions. But if you give me my cell phone, I am not afraid to go somewhere. You know why? Because I can always pull out my phone and go, navigate to Home Depot. And I feel good about getting where I'm going because whilst I am not good at directions, my phone is good at directions, my GPS is good at directions. And now that I have unlimited data, I don't have to care about how long it takes me to get somewhere. And so I feel good about getting where I'm going because it's not me who's going there, is it? It's my phone getting me where I need to be. Even in my own shortcomings of not being good at directions, my Google GPS knows how to get me home. Well, the lost sheep may not have known how to get home or Home Depot if he needed something. But the shepherd picks up the sheep and takes the weight of the sheep on himself and carries him home in a manner in which he would not have been able to do for himself. Now why does the shepherd do this? Remember point one. Because the sheep is valuable. Even in its lost state, even when it is in the wilderness, to say nothing of a single sheep in the wilderness is in a lot more danger than a sheep is when it's in its herd guarded by a shepherd. Remember, this is a live animal. In a wilderness, that live animal is somebody's lunch. So the shepherd is not only restoring the sheep to its home, it's not only restoring it to a place of love, of comfort, of safety. The shepherd is by and of himself carrying the sheep back to the place where it is most safe and most loved. And he's doing it all in and of his own effort. He's not walking the sheep home. He's carrying the sheep home. That point by itself will preach for days. Then here's the fourth point of commonality in the story. Once the sheep and the coin are both restored, joy is shared and celebration happens. Joy is shared and celebration happens. Look at verse six. Then he, the shepherd, calls his friends and neighbors together and says, rejoice with me! In a musical, I have found my lost sheep. In verse nine, when she, the woman, finds it, she calls to her friends and neighbors together and says, there's those three words again, rejoice with me! I have found my lost coin. Now again, if you missed how valuable the sheep and the coin were, you might be wondering, why are we so excited about one sheep? You had a hundred. It's just one. Why are we so excited about one coin? You had ten. But the response here is the same. The joy of the one who finds is not contained to just the finder. The joy of the one who finds is shared by all those others who are around the one who finds. The shepherd called all his friends together. Guys, I found my sheep! The widow, or the woman, she calls all her friends together. Ladies, I found my coin. Why? Because it was so valuable to me that even while it was lost, I want to celebrate the fact that it is found. The fact that the joy is shared by the shepherd's friends and the woman's friends illustrate even more how important or how valuable it was. The joy of the restoration is shared by more than he or she who finds. Both parties call in other people to celebrate the finding. These parables are very short, very simple, but they both teach us the same lesson. And here's where the rubber meets the rope. The shepherd is Jesus. The woman also is typifying Jesus. That which is lost, think about who was the audience in the very beginning? The audience was two halves, right? The audience was the tax collectors and sinners over here, and the Pharisees and the teachers of the law over here. And did you notice in both parables, both parables involve two groups. One, the first group is the lost, the lost sheep, the lost coin. The other group is the group they came from, the flock of sheep, the other 99, or the other nine coins. Jesus is not a fool. He's teaching both groups of people simultaneously, and He's teaching them the same lesson. He's saying, listen, there is more joy in heaven over the one lost sheep or the one lost coin than the 99 of you who don't even realize you're lost yet. And here's the truth about the sheep. The 99 lost sheep do not represent saved people. The 99 lost, the 99 sheep who stayed together, who did not get lost, Miss Susanna, they do not represent saved people. They represent the Pharisees, the teachers of the religious law, the people who think, I'm good by myself, the people who didn't even realize they were lost. And the shepherd left the 99 religious people to search for the one person who actually knew they were lost. Now look at Jesus' audience again. Tax collectors and sinners are coming to hear Jesus. Religious people are judging Jesus for teaching tax collectors and sinners. So Jesus whips out these two parables, and then of course it's kind of like a one-two, and then He knocks them out with the parable that we'll look at next week, the Prodigal Son. How do we apply this to our lives today? Well, very simply. If I bring the parable into a modern day church context, we could be considered sheep that were already lost and have already been found. I admit, I'm a sinner. If you didn't know that, I apologize. Hi, my name is Bill and I'm a sinner. We could probably just start church with that every Sunday. Hi, my name is Bill and I'm a sinner. Because you know what? I once was a lost sheep who has been found. So technically, I don't go back into the group of 99. That's okay, baby boy, thank you. I don't go back into the group of 99. I went home with the shepherd. Did you notice that? He carried the sheep home. He didn't carry the sheep back to the group in the wilderness. He carried it home. But we need not be distracted by ourselves here in this room right now. We need to remember that outside these doors and outside of this campus, there are sheep that are lost all over the place. And those lost sheep out there matter more to God than us found sheep in here. Because He wants those lost sheep to get found and come in here. So I'm not saying that we're the 99. No, the 99 represent lost people who don't know they're lost yet. And let's be honest, you may know someone like that. You may have someone in your life today who has not made a decision to accept Jesus and doesn't want to. I have several friends like that. They know what I do for a living. They respect that I have chosen a life of service to God. But they don't believe in the Bible and therefore they don't care about Jesus as their Savior. Well, that's a lost person who doesn't really even realize how lost they are. But I also, Miss Nancy, I have a few friends who are curious, who are at least willing to have a conversation, at least willing to throw down a latte at Starbucks and ask me, do you really believe all that Bible stuff? Yeah, I really believe all that Bible stuff. Sometimes the answer is just that simple. And then you start a conversation and you realize, wow, this person, they do realize they're lost. They realize their life is incomplete in some way and they need salvation. Those are the lost people in your lives that we need to find and that we need to be praying for, that we need to introduce to the shepherd who will carry them home. Because remember, the lost sheep didn't have to bring himself home by himself. The shepherd does that job. It's not our job to save souls. It's our job to introduce the shepherd who will do it for you, who will pick you up and carry you by his own power, who will bring you all the way home in and of his own volition, in and of his own superiority. We should be the messengers of the shepherd and leave the shepherd to do his job. Because I can't hang anybody's salvation on my weak life. I'm not good enough. But I can represent the shepherd who is good enough. So how do we bring this parable into our lives today? Open your eyes. Right now, just take a mental account of all of the people in your life, your friends, your family, your neighbors, your co-workers, the people you know from school, the people that you pass in Walmart and in Food Lion. How many of those people are lost and don't know it yet? How many of those people are lost but might be interested in being found? And you know what, Jeanne, that's a hard distinction. You've actually got to spend time with someone and find out where they're at on the whole God map. Because there are some people who are going to be ultra-resistant. Inviting them to church on a Sunday morning is not the right first step. Let me say that again. You may have a friend in your life who inviting them to church on a Sunday morning is the wrong first step. Inviting them to coffee on a Tuesday afternoon might be the right first step. Don't think that the brilliant solution is, man, I just got to get everybody to come to church. Because if they could hear that new preacher, they'd un-meet Jesus and then they were all good. No. That conversation might need to be about something that's more personal than we could talk about here on a Sunday. They might need to find out that, you know what, I know, because let's, can we just be honest for a second? Can we just pretend that we're not in church, we're all real human beings? Everybody has things in their past they don't want to be here brought up in church. Can we just be honest? Everybody has things in our past that you don't want to come up in one of my sermons. I do. I have things in my past that aren't very pastoral. You know why? Because I wasn't born a pastor. I was born a kid in New Jersey who liked MC Hammer and Vanilla Ice. Mr. Brian, I graduated high school not wanting to do this for a living. I graduated high school wanting to be a Broadway performer. I wanted to sing and dance and have my name in lights and the whole deal. And I just, I thought I was on my way. I graduated top of my class from a high school for the performing arts. I've always loved music and I was convinced I was going to be famous. God clearly had other plans for my life. But if we, just in and of ourselves as our little church family, can admit we have some things in our life story that we don't want to hear brought up in church, how much more do you think your friends who don't go to church on a regular basis have things in their life that they're like, I don't know, maybe the preacher's going to be preaching on XYZ and I really don't want to have to hear that or deal with it. Or you have, you asked me after a lunch after church, what did y'all think about that? So you know what, I'll just come next week. And the next week turns into five weeks and turns into two months. No. We have, you know the fastest way to see this church grow? Invite the lost people that you have in your life to come to our church. That's always the best way to grow a church. We don't want to have a fancy advertising campaign and steal people from other churches. Because you're just moving found sheep from one closet to another closet. The heart of God is to find the sheep that are lost and bring them home. Which means we've got to open our eyes and then we've got to be ready for it. Jason and I have been talking about having a guest mentality. That when someone comes to church, there might always be somebody who's never been here before, who doesn't know the way we do it all the time. Or like me, who just couldn't even read the bulletin and know what was coming next in the service. We need to be ready when lost people come to church. Because if lost people aren't coming to church, we're not doing the right job. We should be here glorifying God, absolutely. Praising His name, absolutely. Discipling and growing smarter Christians and better disciples, absolutely. But the discipleship process starts when the lost sheep hit the parking lot. Can we make them feel welcome? Can we dispel some of those fears? Like, oof, I don't know, is the preacher going to get in my face? Can I tell you, can we just be honest, can I tell you the one part of the church service that I fear the most? As a visitor. It's that one part of the church service where we have to get up and shake hands. That's the part of the service I fear the most. And I'm an extrovert. I'm an outwardly going person, but you know what? I don't know everybody. If I'm walking into church for the first time, Jason, I don't know that you don't have a cold. I don't know that, I don't know, I don't know that you're weird, I don't know that I might not shake your hand the right way. And then somebody's going to think I'm crazy because I don't know how to shake hands right. And I don't know what to say. And it creates all of this pressure that I don't need. So that's my scariest part of church. And I'm the one that has to get up here and speak every week. I bet you that if you look hard enough in your life, you could find someone to invite to church. The question is, will you? There is greater joy in heaven over one sinner. One sinner. Or if you would allow me the privilege to rephrase it, Jason, there is greater joy for God over one lost person coming to church than everybody in this room coming every week. That's the parable of the lost things. That we should keep our eyes open Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday to find that lost friend. And maybe we have to meet him at Starbucks first and dispel some fears. Listen, you've got a lost person who wants to come to church. I will meet you anywhere, any day, any time. Because what I have found, and let's just be honest, Lorraine, you know what I've found? When people meet me in public, they're surprised that I'm a pastor. And see, I really don't know how to take that. I'm not sure if that's a compliment or I'm not sure if it's an insult. But yes, I grew up listening to Vanilla Ice and Big Parachute Pants and MC Hammer. I like playing pool and I like playing video games. And when people find out that I can do all of those things and still love God, and still choose to do the ministry for a living because I believe in the mission of the church, wow, okay, I'll give that church a try. So use me. Use me as a tool. Use me as a weapon. If you have a friend that you've been trying to invite to church and they're resistant, let's go get some ice cream. You know, ice cream came before Starbucks that time. Just trying to lay the groundwork. Let's go get some food. Let's go meet for coffee. Let's go play a board game. Let's go play cards. I love playing cards. Do something that shows people that we're going to be about lost sheep. Not just about found sheep. Pete, we should disciple those found sheep. Absolutely. We should never give up on the mission of making disciples. But the mission of making disciples starts with all of those people out there who could fill all of the rest of the seats in here. Everybody get that? That's what the parable is about. Now, worship team, if you guys could come and join me up here. My invitation this morning is a little different because the parable warrants it to be so. So my first question is I need you to be honest with yourself. Are you the lost sheep? Okay, then be right there. I'll be with you in just a minute. Are you the sheep who doesn't realize it's lost? You know, you can come to church week in and week out. And Brian, we can learn to write lingo and learn how to sing all the right songs and amen to this and yes brother to that. And I can know where 2 Corinthians is in the New Testament. And I can know who the Apostle Paul is. No amount of head knowledge saves your soul. No amount of head knowledge creates a true relationship with Jesus. That's a faith step. It's got to be made you and the Savior. And he finds you and he brings you home. So my first question is are you a found sheep this morning? Or are you maybe kind of lost and just don't want to admit it in front of everybody? See, this is that point where that connection card comes in really handy because you can just jot a little note down and fold it in half and nobody has to know. But this morning my second question is this. Do you know a lost sheep? Could you say their name out loud? Could you write it down? Could you spend the next four days praying for that lost sheep? If the answer to any of those questions is yes, they're going to lead us in singing a song. I want you to come up here. I want to start a list of the lost sheep that we're going to pray for. I want to start a list of those lost sheep that we're going to see Jesus come find. Now, to be fair, maybe they don't end up here. Isn't that okay? I'd rather see them end up somewhere in church and know Jesus than end up still lost and in the wilderness. So the first thing that you can come up here and sit with me and we can talk about is if you're not sure you're the found sheep. Maybe you've just been hiding in the flock. I just want to give maybe, maybe. Number two, maybe you know a lost sheep and you want to come up here and we're going to start a list of the people we're going to pray for.