To make sure that we actually get all of these sermons so I can make sure they go online for those who miss So good morning and welcome to Reads would my name is Bill And I am going to have the privilege of sharing with you this morning We're going to continue our series entitled the end of days. What does the Bible say about the end of the world? Now we began this series a few weeks ago if you were not here for the first several weeks That's okay. All of the messages are available on reads wood calm There's a sermon player built right into the church website So you can just play any of those previous messages just as a review in our first message We talked about putting the puzzle outside of the puzzle together, right? Talk about there are four promises from the Bible the Old Testament and new that create the framework of our puzzle Can anybody remember one of the Old Testament promises ma'am? the Davidic covenant, that's one The new covenant that's one Abrahamic covenant Palestinian covenant that was a fourth one so the Abrahamic Palestinian Davidic and new covenants They make the four outsides of our puzzle so to speak that we're going to put together then Last week we talked about the rapture and what the rapture means it comes from the Latin word Rapturo, which means to be caught up in the air and before I get to this week's message. Let's reiterate What is the key thought for our series this morning? The key thought for our series is the end of the world is a series of events The end of the world is a series of events I know a lot of our modern books and our Hollywood movies They want to try to say that the end of the world is a single cataclysmic stop all end all earth-shattering thing But that's not really the way the Bible describes the end times and so what we're doing is we're slowly going through week by week and we're Examining what the Bible says about the end times so this the title of this week's message is end of days the Tribulation the tribulation now when most people think about the Bible and the end of days then Today's message is what they think about today's message is where it gets hairy Today's message is where it gets a little scary and today's message is really where we need to focus and make sure that we're accurate About what we're saying so before we get into the message I want to define this the tribulation the great tribulation the time of Jacob's suffering and Daniel's 70th week are all the same thing They're all different writers way of describing the same events mr. Don that we will discuss today sometimes it's referred as the tribulation sometimes. It's the great tribulation Sometimes it's the time of Jacob's suffering and sometimes it's Daniel's 70th week But all four of these titles refer to the same topics that we will discuss today So I'm just gonna refer to it as the tribulation however. I need to define for you that term Daniel's 70th week so that we're all clear about what he's saying in the book of Daniel Which is one of the main apocalyptic books in Scripture in the book of Daniel He is given a vision of 70 weeks and that does not mean 70 weeks as in 70 sets of seven days it means 70 sets of seven years They're groups of seven or sets of seven in in the Hebrew language the word week and the word seven are almost identical Because they're groups of seven so all of you math people out there. What's 70 times 7? Four hundred and ninety so when we talk about Daniel's 70th week We're talking about a group of time all 70 weeks together would be four hundred and ninety years now. Let's take that four hundred ninety subtract seven from four hundred ninety and we get 483 483 so when we're talking about the prophecies of Daniel's 70 weeks 483 of those years have happened And it's interestingly enough if you look at the amount of time from the decree to reestablish Jerusalem To the time that Christ died on the cross you want to guess how many years it is? 483 almost to the year the amount of years from the time the decree went out to rebuild Jerusalem to the time that our Savior was crucified on the cross 483 years however There's seven years left one week right the 70th week Now again remember we talked about looking at that mountain range from the Old Testament prophecy you could see the outlines of the mountains But mr. Pete you can't always see the depth the Old Testament prophecy writers had no way to know that we would be living in the time period Between the 69th week and the 70th week they just saw it all as one big prophecy that does not mean that God has not fulfilled His word mr. John it just means he hasn't fulfilled it all yet doesn't mean God's Word is not true He just hasn't fulfilled it yet now the other thing I want to say is I Really feel like the Lord corrected me this week as I was going over my message. I was preparing I Am presenting only one of two different views of the end times It's really hard for me to preach two different views at the same time However, I wanted to explain to you that there is a whole nother school of thought out there of how to approach scripture and how To approach the end times and that is the dispensational view versus the covenantial view And here's the base we could get into a long discussion about the differences but in a basic sense here's what it is a dispensationalist view has a literal interpretation of scripture and believes that Israel and the church are two separate groups of people a Covenantial view takes a primarily allegorical interpretation of scripture meaning having it's not really what it says it has a spiritual meaning and Allegorical interpretation scripture and it believes that Israel and the church are one group not separate groups now mr. Peters you can understand you cannot preach both of these at the same time. They're they're vastly different So I'm going to can see I believe you know, I'm just a simple guy then I believe when the Bible says God made a promise there's not a super spiritual meaning to that I think God made a promise if God said that's a river I don't think that meant meant that I'm gonna be crying a lot. I think that means it's a river So I am in this first group. I am in the dispensationalist view I believe that we should interpret the Bible on a literal basis and I do believe that Ethnic Israel and the Church of Jesus Christ are two separate groups. Although the church has been grafted in to God's people I don't think that the church replaced God's people now if you have any questions about Dispensational versus covenantial or dispensational theology versus covenantial theology. I would be happy to talk about that later I just really felt like mr. Pete It's wrong for me not to tell you that there's a whole nother view out there I don't agree with the view because number one, I think the Bible should be interpreted literally I don't think we should just over spiritualize everything and so I believe when God made a promise it doesn't mean well This is what it meant. No, I think that's what he said when God said to Abraham I make a promise with you and your descendants. I don't think we should over spiritualize I think we should literalize it so what I will be presenting as we continue through the series is I will continue with a Dispensational or literal view of the scripture interpretation But I really felt this massive like correction that I should at least inform you that there is another view out there and that Mine's not the only view my view is held by several really good theologians. There are other theologians over here But this is the basic difference I think the Bible's when God said something I think he said it if you're not interested in going down this road That's totally okay I just really felt like I should tell you Why we're looking at scripture the way we are because I think it's literal and because I think Israel and the church are two different Groups of people so that said let's take a look at point one of our sermon this morning the tribulation will restore and draw Israel to Jesus that's why I had to make that distinction Because I believe that Israel is still a people and I believe God still has a plan for his people and so that's why I'm In a turbo this way the tribulation will restore and draw Israel to Jesus Daniel chapter 9 verse 24 This is the Holman Christian standard says this 70 weeks we just talked about that are decreed about your people and your holy city to bring the rebellion To an end to put a stop to sin to wipe away iniquity to bring in everlasting righteousness to seal up vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy place The first thing you have to understand about what we're gonna talk about this morning is it is a little scary There are some very serious things that are going to happen, but they have a purpose Mr.. Zack they have a purpose and if we were to talk about the whole of the Old Testament From beginning to end and how God dealt with his children and how he dealt with their disobedience There are some that want to say well the Old Testament God is anger and the New Testament God is love But that's not really the full story God does discipline his children the Old Testament yes He does he allows them to be taken into captivity first in Egypt But yet they come out of Egypt incredibly blessed and multiplied Then they're taken captive by the Babylonians and the Assyrians and every time what do they do? God gives his children a spanking and miss Lisa it draws them back to him it draws them back to purity it draws them away from Idolatry it draws them back to being who they should have been which is God first and everybody else second the tribulation is the same Thing as the process the children of God went through in the Old Testament God is going to allow very bad things to happen for the purpose of drawing his children the children of Israel back to him But remember last week the rapture in my view pre-millennia Dispensationalist my view is the rapture has already happened so miss Ilona. We're already with Jesus I don't have to fear what the Lord is going to pour out for his children because the Lord the Savior has already called The bride off the planet so we're not here to experience what I'm about to describe today But the purpose and that's why people say well why would God be so angry I was talking with Micah this morning daddy What's the tribulation we don't I don't not answer my son's questions? I try to answer them in such a way that it's it's an eight-year-old version of the scriptural truth But I said well Micah God is going to pour out his wrath on sin in order so that his children will be Turned back to him and love him again. Well. Why wouldn't God just make us love him Micah? That's an incredibly esoteric question Why would God not just make us love him the point of what we're going to look at look at what it says here 70 weeks we talked about that are to create about your people who are your people again my view The children of Israel still God's people the church did not replace national Israel We got grafted in as Paul said so this your people is Israel your holy city Jerusalem literal again literal interpretation your people Israel your whole city Jerusalem brings a rebellion to an end which rebellion the rebellion of sin against God's law It's a rebellion of sin against God. It's not a rebellion against Rome. It's not a rebellion against America It's not a rebellion against the European Union this purpose is a rebellion against God Why to put a stop to sin by definition sin is the disobedience to God to wipe away iniquity again the consequences of The rebellion and the sin and to bring in everlasting Righteousness there's only one that brings everlasting righteousness And that's the Savior and he's going to do that through drawing Israel to him through what we're about to see In the tribulation, so now let's talk about timeline wise here's your next point The tribulation begins with a peace treaty With Israel the tribulation begins with a peace treaty with Israel take a look at Daniel chapter 9 verse 27 He will make a firm covenant with many for one week Remember we talked about the week is really a group of seven Seven years so he will make a firm covenant with many for one week But in the middle of the week he will put a stop to sacrifice and offerings So Zach if the week in Daniel's vision is seven years how long before you get to the middle of it? Three and a half right half of seven three and a half So the tribulation in in the view that I'm presenting the rapture has happened. We have been called to Christ We're at the Bema judgment. This is still happening on earth There will be a peace treaty made with national Israel then three and a half years Peace will stand then in the middle of this week of this group of seven He will put a stop to sacrifice and offering who is he he is the Antichrist? He is the Antichrist the one who will ultimately bring the peace treaty They'll be peace with Israel for three and a half years then he will put a stop to sacrifice an offering and the Abomination of desolation will be on a wing of the temple until the decreed destruction is poured out on the desolate or the Abomination of desolation it sounds like such a such a super heavy scary term basically what it means is this the Antichrist will rise He will lead in a peace treaty with Israel for three and a half years Israel will have peace with the nations around it and then he will go back on that peace treaty and He will put himself as the object of worship in the temple He will make himself the object of worship in the temple at Jerusalem and Then and he will stay that way as the object of worship in the temple in Jerusalem until the destruction is poured out Okay, so that's what happens the rapture happens Christians. We're no longer here. Then the Antichrist appears He puts a peace treaty with national Israel Israel enjoys peace for three and a half years half of seven Then after three and a half years he reneges on that piece He makes himself the object of worship in the temple then look what happens God's judgments are Released God's judgments are released and here there's really no way around it I have to read a really long passage of Scripture in order to show this to you. So God's judgments are released This is from the Revelation chapter 6. We're gonna read the first 17 verses of Revelation chapter 6 So this begins Revelation chapter 6 starting in verse 1 and I'm gonna read all the way down to verse 17 This is what it says as I watched the lamb who's the lamb? Jesus remember that's super important to remember as I watched the lamb Jesus Broke the first of seven seals on the scroll and then I heard one of the four living beings with a voice say like thunder Come I looked up and I saw a white horse standing there and its rider carried a bow and a crown was placed on His head he rode out to win many battles and gained the victory when the lamb broke the second seal I heard the second living being say come Then another horse appeared a red one its rider was given a mighty sword and the authority to take peace from the earth and There was war and slaughter everywhere When the lamb broke the third seal I heard the third living being say come I looked up and saw a black horse and its rider was holding a pair of scales in his hand and I heard a voice from among the four living beings say a loaf of wheat bread or three loaves of barley will cost a day's pay and Don't waste the olive oil and wine When the Lord broke the fourth seal I heard the fourth living being say come I Looked up and saw a horse whose color was pale green and its rider was named Death and his companion was the grave The two were given authority over one fourth of the earth to kill with the sword and famine and disease and wild animals When the lamb broke the fifth seal I saw under the altar the souls of all who had been martyred for the word of God and for being faithful in their testimony They shouted to the Lord and said oh Sovereign Lord holy and true how long before you judge the people who belong to this world and avenge our blood for what they have done to us Then a white road was given to each of them and they were told to rest a little longer Until the full number of their brothers and sisters and their fellow servants of Jesus who were to be martyred had joined them I watched as the lamb broke the sixth seal and there was a great earthquake The Sun became as dark as black cloth and the moon became as red as blood Then the stars of the sky fell to the earth like green figs falling from a tree shaken by a strong wind The sky was rolled up like a scroll and all of the mountains and islands were moved from their places Then everyone the kings of the earth the rulers the generals the wealthy the powerful and every slave and free person All hid themselves in caves and among the rocks of the mountains and they cried to the mountains and rocks Fall on us and hide us from the face of the one who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the lamb For the great day of their wrath has come and who is able to survive this is the Dun dun dun moment in Revelation. This is where it starts to get real folks And again, I will say I do not believe that that is an allegorical Description I believe it is a literal one now If you will do me a favor and pass these out I really didn't have the time to unpack. There are really three sets of seven. There's three scrolls There's seven scrolls. There's seven trumpets and there's seven bowls rather than try to unpack all 21 points this morning I'm gonna unpack the first seven the scrolls and then I've got that handout for you there which describes the other 14 event Mr. P can I have one? And then mr. Zack, will you please take me back to the beginning of that scripture passage? So what we see happening is first the Antichrist appears three and a half years of peace with Israel Then he places himself as an object of worship then shortly after that God begins to release his judgments Now there's a couple of things that are often misinterpreted about this passage So let's take a look here first as I watched the lamb now we already established this who is the lamb? Jesus right the lamb broke the first of seven seals on the scroll And then I heard one of the four living beings say come with a voice of thunder And I looked up and I saw a white horse standing there its rider carried a bow and a crown was placed on his head Keep right there for a second Most people think of this first now number one this is the passage where we get the four horsemen of the apocalypse Okay, this is exactly where they come from the first horseman is not Jesus Super important to understand the first horseman is not Jesus The first horseman is not Jesus. How do I know that take a look at this passage? Jesus is the one who cracks the scroll, right? Then the living being speaks the rider is called up. He's given a white horse and a bow and a crown go forward one sack Then he rode out to win many battles and then look when the lamb broke the second seal Jesus does not ride out And then come back to break the second seal So first we have to establish who's the first horseman of the apocalypse take me back one When Jesus comes to be the king of kings and lord of lords, how did he win his kingdom? Did he win it by sacrifice or did he win it by conquest? He won it by sacrifice his first incarnation He came as the suffering servant and he won through service through servanthood through sacrifice the right to be the king of kings This white horse here that he's given a bow and a crown and he is called conquest Where some people will say this is also the beast that's mentioned in revelation the beast and conquest could very well be the same person So i'm going to describe each of the four horsemen by what they do because scripture doesn't give them a name So i'm going to call the first horseman conquest Because he rode out to conquer so go forward. Let's take a look at the second horseman So the first horseman is conquest the second horseman is war Another horse appeared a red one. He was given a mighty sword and he was had the right to take peace What is the opposite of peace war so the first horseman is conquest the second horseman is war keep going Then the third horse he's given a pair of the third rider. He's given a pair of scales and this is is likely Has to do with famine it also has to do with economics he's he's likely In charge of the way we deal with one another and he's able to tip those scales and then who's the fourth one? And then the fourth one is death and then look at this these two meaning the guy with the scales Who's able to change economics and the guy who's in charge of death himself? They are both sent out to do what to give an authority over one fourth of the earth for those of you who like numbers in 2013 and again that was several years ago, but it's the earliest numbers I could find in 2013 the world's population was does anybody want to take a guess what the world's population was estimated in 2013? It's a little over seven billion. It's actually seven point Seven point one two five billion people So those of you want to do your quick math, what is 25 percent of seven point one two five billion? It's roughly one point seven eight billion with a b Is the amount of people that these two riders are given the authority to kill? one point seven eight billion with a b people to put that in perspective They could kill the entire population of north america south america europe and australia Everyone who lives in those four places dead and it would still only equal one point six seven billion We'd still have to kill some people in asia to get to a full 25 percent of the earth's population This is a massive Culling of people this is probably for me. I sometimes you know one fourth of the world's no How about if I just say it this way these two were given authority over one point seven eight billion people To kill with the sword and famine and disease and wild animals This is where the rubber meets the road folks what I want you to remember is We were already raptured. We're not here for it, but the world Still endures it the world still endures the lord And then finally you keep going forward the four horsemen are sent out then finally The fifth seal gathers together everyone who has been martyred for their faith for those of you who may not be familiar with that word To be martyred means to be killed for jesus We're not really familiar with that here in america because we don't endure that here But they do in other parts of the world still today and they have definitely throughout christian history All of the people who were killed because of the cause of christ Are held in a very special place Because in a moment when jesus in the very end when jesus comes back Guess who's the army who is on either side of jesus? All of these people who are martyred for their faith They're given the white robe they're getting and then the one on you see here is they shout to god Oh sovereign lord holy and true how long before you judge the people for what they have done to us and avenge our blood Look at his answer They were told to rest a little longer until the full number of their brothers and sisters their fellow servants of jesus Who were martyred had joined them? At the beginning of the tribulation we're not done killing christians There's still some left that have to be killed before God's going to bring them back with a vengeance and we're going to get to the good part in a minute So all of the martyrs are gathered together. Then if you fast forward some more the sixth seal the earth begins to Shake stars fall and then finally the last one Is the seventh scroll? Begins the seven trumpets So what happens is there's six scrolls the sixth scroll starts the seven trumpets There's then six trumpets the seventh trumpet starts the first bowl and then there are seven bowls beyond that That's why I gave it to you in a handout because it would be really hard for me to go through all 21 steps The main thing people want to know about is the four horsemen of the apocalypse and then right on the heels of those We bring it back to christ all of the people who were martyred for their faith. Then finally, here's my last point The return of jee. Oh, here we go. Which one is that? that is Oh, that's what we just talked about. Those are the seven things conquest then war israel will be persecuted remember Because I believe there is a clear distinction between national israel and the church of jesus christ The tribulation is to draw israel back to christ just like when they were sent to Babylon just like when they were sent to assyria mr Don god has always wanted the heart of his people back even though they keep running around the idols and they keep running around to other things israel will be persecuted this comes from matthew chapter 24 verses 15 to 22 So when you see standing in the holy place the abomination that causes desolation We just saw that from revelation spoken of through the prophet daniel or from daniel spoken up through the prophet daniel Let the reader understand Then let those who are in judia, who's that? God's people let those who are in judia flee to the mountains. Let no one on the house stop Go down to take anything out of the house Let no one in the field go back to get their cloak How dreadful it will be in those days for pregnant women and nursing mothers pray that your flight will not take place in the winter or on the sabbath For there will be great distress unequaled from the beginning of the world Until now and never to be equaled again if those days were not cut short No one will survive but for the sake of the elect those days will be shortened now Again, that's why we started with the framework right the framework of revelation is god's drawing his people back Now I want to point out one thing right here on the screen For then there will be great distress distress Unequaled from the beginning of the world until now Just think for yourself How many horrible things have already happened? to the nation of israel We can go back into the old testament and they were They were confined by the egyptians and then the Babylonians then the ussyrians Then in the intertestamental period between the old testament and the new testament mr Don they were conquered by alexander the great then they came through and they got conquered by rome Then they finally and then finally when they get conquered by rome and the temple is destroyed in ad 70 They don't get their land back until after world war two and all the atrocities that hiddler performed against the nation of god's people And yet all of that rolled up together will be less Than what's going to happen during this tribulation period? From the beginning of the world until now and never to be equaled again So when you want to wonder how how strongly is the lord going to discipline his children and draw them back to him Everything that they have suffered to this point will pale in comparison to what the lord is going to do during this seven-year period of time Let's go forward again And then finally The return of jesus ends the tribulation So let's get back to our math right for three and a half years israel has peace. How long is israel's? persecution If you take three and a half out of seven how much is left? Yes, three and a half years the lord's going to discipline his children for the purpose of drawing them back to him And then the return of jesus ends the tribulation Then I saw heaven open and there was a white horse Why was conquest's horse white? Because he is a counterfeit christ He went out to conquer by war christ comes to conquer by righteousness Then I saw heaven open and there was a white horse its rider called faithful and true and he judges and makes war in righteousness His eyes were like a fiery flame and many crowns were on his head And he is he had a name that no one knows except himself and he wore a robe stained with blood And his name is the word of god This is the ba ba ba This is the how great thou art moment this is when christ comes back As the king of kings and the justified king of all one thing I do want to point out though Conquest was only given one crown christ comes back with many crowns Secondly, um if you go down here the very last sentence He wore a robe stained with blood and his name is the word of god I know every time we put the words jesus and blood together we always think about the cross That's not jesus's blood on his robe What is jesus about to go out and do? make war He's about to be the final end all to this tribulation Most commentators when looking at this passage we are not talking about christ as the suffering servant anymore. Praise god He's resurrected from that role. He is now coming as the conqueror if you would continue In fact, do I have do I have the next slide? No, I took it out. Okay. Let me read it Let me just read the verses that come after this for you. It's revelation Uh chapter 19 And this this ends at verse 13. I'm going to pick it up for you at verse 14 and read it to verse 21 So again, this is revelation chapter 19 The armies of heaven were following him riding on white horses and dressed in fine linen White and clean coming out of his mouth is a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations He will rule them with an iron scepter. He treads the wine press of the fury of the wrath of god almighty On his robe and on his thigh he has written king of kings and lord of lords And lord of lords that's where jesus's name king of kings comes from it comes from this moment where he's about to come back In a legit way and I saw an angel standing in the sun who cried out in a loud voice To all the birds flying in midair come gather for the great supper of god so that you may eat the flesh Of kings generals and mighty of the horses and their riders and all the flesh of all the people free and slave great and small Jesus is coming back to win the battle of armageddon and establish his kingdom Which that's that's really we're going to talk about next week what I want you to understand about the tribulation is it lasts for seven years It starts when a peace treaty with israel is signed three and a half years of peace Three and a half years the lord allows israel to be persecuted for the purpose of drawing his children back to him And it ends with the big moment jesus on his white horse Jesus on his white horse followed by an army of people who are martyred for the faith There is no greater sacrifice than giving your life for your faith Those people have a special place in god's redemptive plan for redemptive history in the future redemptive history not yet written to be with jesus now Go ahead and give me my title slide. I have a specific closing for this I realize everything we just talked about Is a little unnerving it is it's a little scary 1.78 billion people being killed by war and famine is not a cheery sunday morning topic, but let me ask you a question For those who like sports is there any sports fans? Okay I'm not a sportsman. So you'll have to help me What is the big final game that ends the season in professional football called? The super bowl, okay. What is the big final tournament at the end of the professional basketball season called? The final the nba finals right or isn't that the final four? Okay, what is the final tournament that ends professional baseball called? The world series what is the final tournament that ends professional hockey called? The stanley cup nobody nobody got the hockey reference. All right What happens if you knew how it was going to end What would happen to the way you watch the super bowl or the stanley cup or the world series or the nba finals Zach if you knew ahead of time who was going to win sideline not for betting purposes Okay, just in case anybody's going there. This is not a message about the blessedness of gambling What I want to make the point is this mr. Zach? Would you be as on edge? Would you be as unnerved? Would you be as anxious? If you knew the outcome of the tournament before it happened Absolutely not That's how we should look at the great tribulation I know the outcome My savior comes back for his church My savior comes back to redeem his people Yes, there may be some struggle. There may be some trial. There may be a seventh inning stretch There may be a fourth quarter touchdown, but you know what it's not going to change the end of the book The end of the book is written and it's glorious and it's great and the savior gets all the praise I don't want you to walk out of the message this morning frightened by the future Because the future is in the hands of the savior That's what ends it all Is jesus comes back as the victorious king of kings and lord of lords riding on his white horse Yes, there may be some drama to get there, but that drama is for the purpose Of god's people being drawn back to him you