This morning we are going to continue our teaching series entitled Encountering Jesus. Now if you've not been here for the previous messages in Encountering Jesus that's okay. The series is about exploring personal moments in the ministry of Jesus. You know there are these very popular public moments Jesus teaching the sermon on the mount in rural Galilee or Jesus driving the money changers out of the temple in Jerusalem. There are these very big very public moments but there are also these very beautiful and intimate one-on-one moments where Jesus is talking to teaching and healing a specific individual. We looked at blind Bartimaeus last week. The week before that we looked at the criminal on the cross and the conversation that Jesus had right there as he was dying. This morning if you have your Bibles with you if you will turn or click with me to the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew is going to be easy to find. It's the first book in the New Testament. The Gospel of Matthew chapter 15. So the Gospel of Matthew chapter 15. Our reading this morning is going to be short. It's only about seven verses. We are going to read Matthew 15 verse 21 through verse 28. So Matthew 15, 21 to 28. And I will be reading it for you this morning in the NIV or the New International Version. Here's Matthew 15 starting in verse 21. Leaving that place Jesus withdrew to the region of Tyre and Sidon. A Canaanite woman from that vicinity came to him crying out, Lord, son of David, have mercy on me. My child is demon possessed and suffering terribly. Jesus did not answer a word. So his disciples came to him and urged him, Send her away. She keeps crying out after us. He answered, I was only sent to the lost sheep of Israel. The woman came and knelt before him, Lord help me, she said. He replied, it is not right to take the children's bread and toss it to the dogs. Yes it is Lord, she said, even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their master's table. And Jesus said to her, woman you have great faith. Your request is granted and her daughter was healed at that moment. Now please reserve your judgment over Jesus's choice of words here. I know at first glance it almost looks a little offensive. It almost looks a little insulting. I promise it's not. But you gotta let me unwind it a little bit for you, okay? So, let's go back and we're just gonna sort of walk through this text and there's a few outstanding points I'd like to make. First is the setting. The setting is given for us in verse 21. Leaving that place, if you were to look previously, Jesus was ministering in and around the area of Galilee and he traveled to the region of Tyre and Sidon. Okay, enough said. I'm sure everybody knows exactly where that is. If you are in, okay, here's my Wednesday nighters. Let's talk about our snowman, right? What's the bottom of the snowman? Judea. Then above Judea is Samaria. Then above Samaria is Galilee. The hat on top of the snowman would be Tyre and Sidon. It's north of Galilee. It's north of Galilee and you gotta travel a little bit over to the coast of the Mediterranean. Tyre and Sidon are on the coast. Those of you who have maps in your Bibles will be super easy. Go to the Mediterranean Sea. Go all the way to three o'clock on the Mediterranean Sea. The coastal edge of the eastern side of it and you'll find Tyre and Sidon. Tyre and Sidon are in Gentile country. Gentile country. Tyre and Sidon were ancient port cities. They were cities of commerce. In fact, does anybody's Bible call her the Syrophoenician woman, not the Canaanite woman? You may have a translation. A few of the translations use and they title this story Jesus and the Syrophoenician woman. The reason for that is Tyre and Sidon exist in the area that used to be Syria, hence Syro, and guess what people used to sail in and out of Tyre? The Phoenicians. Hence we call her the Syrophoenician woman. She's in the area of Tyre and Sidon which is just north of Galilee. It is a major port city and in fact, those of you who love looking at your cross references, if you were to go to the Old Testament book of Ezekiel chapter 26 verse 4, you will see that the prophet Ezekiel actually prophesied the destruction of Tyre. And those of you who love your history, does anybody remember the story of Alexander the Great? He traveled through a city and he destroyed it and all of the people in that city, they recessed to an island that was about 100 yards off the coast and they said, nanny nanny boo boo, you can't get us and Alexander the Great destroyed the city, took the broken buildings, built a bridge, walked all the way out to the island and killed everybody on the island? That was Tyre. So now we're tying it all together with world history. That was Tyre. The Tyreese people were supposed to make a deal with Alexander the Great. Of course, Ezekiel told us hundreds of years before that they would renege on that deal and Ezekiel actually prophesied that destruction and God used Alexander the Great to do that. So that's all north of the area of Galilee. The huge thing I want you to understand before we get into this passage is Jesus is walking around pagan country. We are not walking around where there's a lot of Jews. We are not walking around where everybody serves kosher food. Jesus is the outsider in this land. Whilst we could argue Jason, there are a lot of Jews that live in Galilee. Jesus himself, born in Nazareth in a town in Galilee. Up in Tyre and not so much the case. He's a little bit more culturally outside of his comfort zone. He's in pagan lands. Then in verse 22, we see this exchange happen between the Canaanite woman. I also think it's very interesting that Matthew of all of the gospels chooses to record her as a Canaanite not Syrophoenician. Syrophoenician was correct for where she lived in the day but Matthew linked it back to the Israel's original conquest of Canaan and referred to as a Canaanite woman. Traditionally, Canaanites are at enmity with Israelites. He should have been a natural born enemy. Here we have a Canaanite woman in a pagan land coming to the Messiah. Super important that we see those foundational background pictures here. In verse 22 and what I want to do is I sort of want to look at it as there's three different parts to this. The woman makes a request, Jesus makes a response. Then there's a second request with a response. Then there's a third request and a third response. So that's how I want to sort of break it down this morning. Here's the first request begins in verse 22. The Canaanite woman from that vicinity cried out, Lord, son of David, have mercy on me. My daughter is demon possessed and suffering terribly. Now with everything that I have just told you about the setting of our story, I want you to see the first four words she says to the Savior. Lord Son of David. Now you just passed that by. Oh well of course everybody knew Jesus was the son of David. Everybody knew Jesus was the Messiah. Not in pagan country they didn't. Not north of Galilee and Tyre and Sidon where the majority of the religion is pagan and humanistic. This woman shows an unkeen understanding of who Jesus truly is by using a term son of David. That's an Old Testament messianic term. That's a Jewish term. Canaanite woman, pagan land. She has some very keen insight into who the person of Jesus really is by addressing him as Lord Son of David. Have mercy on me. Do you guys remember last week the story of Bartimaeus? He uses this word ilieo and it means literally to bring aid to one who is affirmed or in need. She's using the same word blind Bartimaeus used last week. It's recognizing the reality that I in and of myself am broken and I need you. She's saying the same thing that Bartimaeus said. Lord have mercy. I'm broken and I, Messiah I am broken I need you. Except she's a pagan woman in a pagan land talking to Jesus as the Messiah. The story opens up with a very unlikely understanding from a woman who's not living in an area of town where she should have an understanding of who the Messiah is. She uses also this word Lord that she uses is kurios and it's kind of come up several times in our story today. Kurios literally means he to whom a person or thing belongs he who has the authority or decision over another. So when you hear that word Lord I want you to understand what she is saying. He who has authority over another person and the authority to make decisions for that person. This is a very subjective term. When I use this word it's much like we would say to a king. If we lived in a king's kingdom it would be understood that you are a subject of that king and that king ultimately does lord over you or have authority to make decisions that impact your life. This is the word she chooses to use. Lord son of David have mercy on me. Except it's not really me she's asking for. It's have mercy on me my daughter. Have mercy on me but my daughter is the one that needs to be healed. She's asking for the mercy in the first person. Lord son of David I am broken I need you have mercy on me and please in your mercy heal my child. I cannot think of a more humbling prayer than to need something for your child that you are unable to do for yourself. She comes to the savior Lord son of David have mercy on me. Now the other reason I want the pagan city to really step out in your mind is there was a pagan center of witchcraft and healing in the ancient world just north of Tyre. Do we know for sure that she went there first? No. But I find it interesting that we're in the same town where there was a pagan town of witchcraft healing and yet she's saying Lord son of David have mercy on me. Then in verse 23 Jesus does not answer her right away. And I will admit at first glance it seems like Jesus is kind of being a little bit of a jerk here. Here's a mother desperately pleading for something to be done for her child and Jesus is like heismaning her way out here and not answering her. And then the disciples jump on board in 23 And the disciples say Jesus will you please shut this woman up? Will you please tell her to go? Now what's the motivation? Why are the disciples asking this? They're annoyed. They're annoyed at a mother pleading for healing for her child. But she's persistent. That's exactly correct. They're annoyed and she must be persistent enough to be annoying. I think that's fair to say. But she doesn't give up. Why? Because she is motivated. Never get in the way of mama bear. That's like a rule for life. Don't ever ever get in the way of mama bear when she's trying to do something for her kids. That is something bad going to happen to you in that moment. That's a bad day. And here this woman, Jesus does not answer her right away. Now I think it's interesting that the disciples have such an uncaring response to her. And I think that's because of Matthew's description. She's a Canaanite. Israelites don't like Canaanites just like Israelites don't like a lot of people sometimes. They don't like the Samaritans. They don't like the Canaanites. But keep in mind the Canaanites shouldn't really like the Israelites either. And again we have her coming to Jesus. So in 23 the disciples are like, Jesus will you please. Now I do find it interesting. I looked up that word crying. She's crying out. The literal translation in Greek of that word crying is to sound like a crow. That's what that word literally means. To sound like a crow. Not just that she was crying out in a loud fashion but that loud was annoyingly sounding. Okay if that's all I did, that's the only thing you're going to remember from this sermon. I know that. I actually had to look up what a crow sounded like so I could try to get my imitation correct. I never heard a crow. And that's this word. So what I want you to see here, we're in pagan country. Oh I'm so sorry. He didn't like, baby didn't like my crow impression. Pastor Bill's sorry. That one's my fault mama. I should have done one less crow impression. And then in verse 23, or 24 I'm sorry. 24 Jesus does give her answer. And he answers I was sent only to the lost of Israel. Now this is what's important. Jesus is not saying this woman is not important. That's what I want you to see here in the text. Jesus is not saying she's not important. He's saying she's less important. And there's a very big distinction there. The big distinction is Jesus is the promised Messiah of the Jewish people. That's not wrong to say. It's not wrong to say that he's the promised Messiah. It's not wrong to say all of those prophecies from the Old Testament pointed forward towards his birth. That's not wrong. He truly is the Messiah of the Jewish people. So when Jesus says here I was sent, and the word only is a little bit of a English misnomer. It's really first would be a better translation of this sentence. I was sent first, or I was sent to prioritize the lost sheep of Israel. He's not saying, it's just an unfair wording in English. In English it sounds like he's saying no to all y'all and y'all people. That's not really what the Hebrew says or the Greek says. It really means I was sent first or I was sent to make my priority the lost sheep of Israel. And that is a true statement. Jesus was in fact sent to be the lost sheep of Israel. So what I want you to see here in this first exchange is that Jesus is making a point that the Messiah came for his people first. Keep in mind he's walking through Paganville. He's walking through a land where there's not a lot of Jews. And he's making a cultural point that he is the promised Messiah of the Jews. That's not false. That's accurate. And that he is been prophesied about. I mean I can go all the way back to Genesis chapter 22 verse 18. Through your descendants all the nations of the earth will be blessed. God told Abraham back in Genesis 22 that Jesus would come and all of the nations of the world will be blessed through Jesus. So yes we do have access to the Savior but sometimes we forget the fact that he was their Messiah first and our Savior second. He was prophesied. That's why the whole world is blessed through the nation of Israel. Romans chapter 1 verse 16. For I am not ashamed of the gospel because it is the power of God that brings salvation to everyone who believes first to the Jew then to the Gentile. So what I want you to see is Jesus is not dismissing this mother who sounds like a crow who's annoying. He is not dismissing her saying I am unwilling to serve you. He's trying to teach everyone a lesson here and saying I do have a priority. I was sent first to my children, to my people, the nation of Israel. Then in verse 25 we begin the second pair of requests and response. In verse 25 the woman comes and kneels before him and Lord help me. And Mr. Pete you stole my thunder so shh. That's right the word kneel literally means to worship. It's literally the word to prostrate oneself to worship. She makes herself lower than. That is literally the word in Greek for worship. She kneels before him and there's that word again kurios. He to whom a thing belongs he who has authority or decision over another. Not only now is she physically lowering herself in his presence but she's repeating that word that's submitting to his authority and that recognizing that Christ does indeed have the decision authority over what she's asking. Now keep in mind what is she asking for? Healing and deliverance for her child. In saying kurios she is blatantly saying in a very bold fashion I need my kiddo to be healed and I believe you can make that decision. I believe that you have the power to not only make that decision but make that decision happen. So in 25 she kneels she worships the Lord. Lord help me again that same word that Bartimaeus used to bring aid or help to one who is afflicted. Now this time in 26 this is where everybody gets a little bit feathers ruffled over Jesus's response. In 26 he replies it is not right to take the children's bread and toss it to the dogs. And I know that sounds harsh. It sounds harsh that Jesus would call this woman a dog or her entire people group a dog. Now yes there are times in the gospels where the Pharisees refer to the Samaritans or other Gentiles as dogs. So when you read the word dog I want you to substitute the word dog for the word puppy. And the reason is when I tell you your people are like dogs it sounds very derogatory right? But the problem is the word in Hebrew is not the word for a wild dog. It is not the word for a nuisance dog. You know what it is the word for? The house puppy. It is the cute puppy that sits under your table. How else does the dog catch the crumbs off the table? This is not a dog that is outside running around that is dirty and that is generally the adjective when we say that someone's people are like dogs. They are outside, they are rooting, they are filthy, they don't clean themselves properly. The word that Jesus uses here is not that word. It is house puppy. It is the cute, you know, anybody ever had a puppy? They are adorable. I have a dog. He is like literally a pound and a half. Actually he is probably like ten pounds. But I can still hold him in one paw, one hand and he can just fit right there in my arm. He is adorable. Annoying when he chews up my shoes. I will give you that. But he is adorable. The word that Jesus uses here is not a derogatory term. Again remember the context. He is making a point that he is the promised Messiah of the Jews first and also her savior. But he is making a point who are the children in Jesus' sentence. It is not right to take the children's bread. Who are the children? No, the other ones. The Jews. The Jews. Who was Jesus first sent to? The Jews. So the Jews are the children. Who is the bread? How about John chapter 6 verse 35. I am the bread of life. Jesus is the bread. The Jews are the children to whom the bread has been sent. Bread in the Old Testament is a common theme or a common picture or symbol of God's provision. Think about the manna from heaven. They called it bread from heaven. When Jesus says I am the bread of life. He is referring to himself as the provision for God's people. So when he says it is not right to take the children's bread. He is again referring to his status as the Messiah of the Jewish people and toss it to the dogs. Meaning to not give it to the Jews. See when you take bread and toss it to the dogs you have taken it away from the children. He's not saying he won't help her. He's saying you need to understand your place. I am still the promised Messiah of my father's people. But through those people now everyone will get blessed. And then the woman's response here in 27. Yes it is Lord even the dogs. She uses the same word house puppy. Even the house puppies eat the crumbs that fall from their master's table. The faith that I mean the faith that this woman has. She's already been told to be quiet by the disciples. She knows that he's not her Messiah. But she's holding on for him to be her savior. Huge difference. Yes it is Lord even the house puppies eat the crumbs that fall from the master's table. Now that word master again kurios. One who is in charge of. The word master and the word Lord are the same word in the Greek. We've just translated them differently here in English. Even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from the kurios or he who has authority over another the master's table. So here her faith is still undaunted by the reality that Jesus is the promised Messiah of the Jews. She is seeing past that to going yes I recognize that you're the promised Messiah of the Jews. But I believe you could still be my savior. I still believe you have the authority to make this decision. You have the authority to make the decision over what is going on in my life. And then in 28 we see Jesus's final response. Woman you have great faith. That word great in Greek. Megas. Where we get our English word mega. Megas. You have Megas faith. You got mega faith. You got like big faith. Why. Well look at everything she's had to go through. She had to seek out a Jewish Messiah in a pagan land. He just happened to be there. And she. I can't I can't even explain a good textual reason for why she had the faith she had but she did man. And she went for it. And she went for it because it was her kid. Because this is her daughter. And she is pleading with the savior. And finally even after number one I was sent to the Jews first she doesn't give up. Two it's not good to send the children's bread to dogs. She still doesn't give up. And she responds with what could possibly be one of the most well crafted retorts ever. Yes but the puppies still get to eat from the table. Jesus responds. You have great faith. Your request is granted. And her daughter was healed at that moment. Now one thing I would like you to notice. Do you notice the daughter is always mentioned in the third person. This leads to the idea that the daughter actually wasn't there. The mother had sought out the Messiah. To heal the daughter who wasn't actually there because the mother is referring to her in the third person. Now here's the question. Does Jesus have to physically be there in proximity to the daughter to heal the daughter? No. Why not? Because he is God. And could we say it another way. Because he has the authority to make that decision regardless of proximity to he who is infirmed. We see that in the story of the Roman centurion. The Roman centurion rides out to Jesus and says Jesus please heal my servant. And Jesus says at this moment he was healed. Jesus doesn't need the geographic proximity to the daughter because he is the Lord. He is the master. He is the kurios. He is the one who has the authority to make the decision. And she saw that in the midst of all of this discouragement. In the midst of all of these difficulties of trying to find someone to heal her daughter. And the Lord responds with simply you have great faith. Why do I think this woman had great faith? If I could sum it up in a sentence. She saw Christ as the Messiah he was. The Lord kurios that he is. And the savior that he could be. All in one moment. She saw Jesus as the Messiah of the Jewish people which he was. She addressed him as Lord my kurios my master which he is. And she had enough faith to take those two and see him as the savior that he could be. I would argue today that's the same faith that you and I should still have. I was not born a Jew to my knowledge. I'll say that. I was not. My 24 hour tan comes from being Native Hawaiian and Japanese. My family does not come from the line of Abraham. So whilst I know that Jesus is the Messiah of the Jewish people. The only reason that I have been grafted into God's salvific plan is because I met the savior. I can learn that Jesus is the Messiah but he's still not my Messiah. That's what I want you to see this morning. You can see Jesus as the Messiah. He is the Lord and he is the savior. Which one of them is he to you. I was not born as a Jew. I recognize that my savior is the promised Messiah of the Jewish people. He will return and take the throne in Jerusalem and fulfill all of those beautiful Old Testament prophecies. And because of God's grace that I have be I get to be a part of God's plan because through his chosen people all of us got to be blessed. It was like just rain and blessing. Everybody gets to be a part of God's plan because of exactly what this woman saw. She saw Christ as the Messiah he was, the Lord he is and the savior that she needed him to be. As you sit here this morning listening to this. What is he to you? Is he merely the Messiah that you read about? Is he the Lord of your life? Is he still the savior you need but don't have? We can relate to him and I will say this candidly it is just us right? It is just us in the recording and the rest of the internet. I have met many a person throughout my career that wants Jesus to be savior and yet denies him the position of Lord. They are one and the same. You can't have, you can't separate his saving ability from his Lordship authority because it is through his Lordship authority that he does the saving. As we approach the throne of grace we are given permission, we are given access because he is the savior but that only comes when you make him the Lord. When you like she did, my Kurios, my master, I am broken. I need you. So as you sit here this morning who is Jesus to you?