This morning I'm going to be continuing my series entitled Encountering Jesus. And the point behind this particular series is to look at moments in the earthly ministry of Jesus where he ministered to people one-on-one. We know that Jesus taught in crowds. The Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5-8 is a fantastic example of that. Jesus knew how to teach to a crowd, but he also knew how to minister to an individual, to a single person, and touch a life that ultimately would change more lives down the road. And that's the intention of this whole series, and hence the intention behind the graphic. I want us to get up close and personal and see these individual one-on-one moments when the Savior ministered to a single person and changed a life. So if you have your Bibles with you this morning, whether they are physical or digital, turn or click with me to the Gospel of Mark. The Gospel of Mark, that is the second Gospel in the New Testament. This morning's message is entitled Encountering Jesus Blind Bartimaeus. The story of Blind Bartimaeus. You will find that story in Mark chapter 10 beginning in verse 46. Sort of a shorter section for us to read this morning. Mark 10, 46 through 52. We'll also have it for you on the screen, and I will be reading it in the new international version. Many rebuked him and told him to be quiet, but he shouted all the more. Son of David, have mercy on me! Jesus stopped and said, call him. So they called to the blind man, cheer up, get on your feet. He's calling you. Throwing his cloak aside, he jumped up to his feet and he came to Jesus. What do you want me to do for you? Jesus asked him. The blind man said, Rabbi, I want to see. Go, Jesus said. Your faith has healed you. Immediately he received his sight and he followed Jesus along the road. There are several instances of personal healing ministry that the Savior does. We will look at a few more as we expound through this series. But this morning what I'd like to do is just go back through this text. And yes, my son has big feet, I apologize. He inherited them from his daddy, so I apologize because I have clapper style feet too. And when I need to really make a point, I'm going to find the hollowest part of the floor and step on it really loud. What I'd like to do is walk back through this passage with you because I think there are a few things that are very pointful for us to learn today. So first, here's the setting. Let me give you the setting. There is a blind man just trying to get by. And this is uber important that we stop for a moment and give you the word picture or the mental picture of what is happening here before I expound what it really means. This man is blind. He is born blind. He cannot see. This is not a euphemism for he's nearsighted or farsighted or colorblind. The man is truly blind and cannot see. And in this first century culture, there is not a government subsidized housing program. There are not handicap parking spots to make things easier. Of course, why would a blind man need a handicap parking spot? That was supposed to be a really big joke. Apparently I need to also work on my jokes when I'm sick. What I want you to understand is there is no social system to care for the handicapped in Jesus' day. They are left to beg of the altruism and good nature of those around them. Now, the city that he is located in, if you look in verse They came to Jericho. They came to Jericho. Now, this is especially important when we understand in the first century, the Jews had to travel to Jewish men, had to travel to Jerusalem three times a year for very specific religious festivals. Can anybody name one of the three feasts, because we've been talking about them on Wednesdays, one of the three feasts that Jewish men have to travel for? Yes, them. Passover is one of them, correct. Can anybody name another one? Feast of Tabernacles, Feast of Shelters, that's great. And the third one? Holy Spirit falls in the book of Acts. Pentecost, correct. Three times a year, all Jewish males age 12 and older are required to go to Jerusalem and the city of Jericho is on the way. So here we have a blind man who knows that he is at the mercy of the people who go by him. He is smart enough to put himself directly in the path of religious travelers. That's not by accident. Also for those of you who like the history, this city of Jericho is not the same as the city of Jericho that Joshua defeats in the book of Joshua. That city was destroyed by the Babylonians and when they rebuilt it, they rebuilt it about a mile south. So they still call it Jericho, but it's not the same exact city where Rahab lived. It's about a mile south of that. However, the land between Jericho and first century Jerusalem is pretty desolate. So if you need to stop and fill up on gas and find the local exons and get your camel some grass before you got to go through the desert, you're going to stop at Jericho. The blind man knows his geography and he has put himself in the best place to beg from those most likely to help him, those of a religious nature. If you are dedicated to going and traveling to Jerusalem three times a year, you have a pretty strong faith. And because of that pretty strong faith, I'm going to bet you're compassionate. And because you're compassionate, I'm going to bet, Wes, you might just help the blind man on the side of the road. He knows all of this and we get all of that from just, they came to Jericho. And then we see Jesus is here and there is a large crowd following Jesus. The only other thing I need you to see going into this setting is Jesus has a lot of people following him. Hence, large crowd. I know that one is really like read between the lines. There's a lot of people following Jesus, not necessarily because they believe in him, but because he has a ministry that attracts attention. Okay? So that's our setting. Blind guy, Jericho, knows his location, people following Jesus because Jesus has a miraculous ministry. So here's the first point that I'd like to make this morning. Bartimaeus knew who Jesus was. Bartimaeus knew who Jesus was. Look at verse 47. When he heard it was Jesus of Nazareth. Stop. I need you to understand that in Jesus' day, Jesus' name was a common name. In fact, if we were to try to translate Jesus' name, Yeshua, from Hebrew directly into English, what would it be? Joshua. Right. And Joshua is a pretty common name nowadays. So I want you to understand the fact that he knows it's Jesus of Nazareth. It's separating it from all of the other Joshua's that existed in his day. He's talking about the specific earthly identity of God incarnate, Jesus of Nazareth. That's his earthly identity. Then he began to shout, Jesus, son of David. Now, Mr. Don, this is a whole other level of identification. Not only is he clearly identifying the one Joshua who was born in Bethlehem to the son of Joseph the carpenter from Nazareth, but he's calling him Jesus, son of David. Now, who is Jesus' earthly father? Joseph. Joseph the carpenter. Why does he refer to him then as son of David? Descendant of David or from the house of David, exactly right. And why is that important? Why is it super important that Jesus of Nazareth was from the line of King David? Because that's where the Messiah comes from. Exactly right. So glad you guys can help me just fix all the questions in my sermon. Well, yes, but in the Gospel of John, it refers to Jesus as the son of Joseph. He's the legal father. In order for Jesus to be the Messiah, he has to be the genetic descendant of King David and the legal descendant of King David. He gets the genetic link to the Davidic line from his mother, and he gets the legal right to inherit the throne from Joseph the carpenter. And Gartamaeus is saying here, Jesus, son of David, Jesus, my Messiah, have mercy on me. He's clearly not only identifying Jesus by his earthly identification, the Jesus of Nazareth, but he's identifying him as his heavenly identification. Jesus, you are my Messiah. Now, what I find incredibly interesting is there's an entire crowd of people following Jesus, but it's the blind guy who knows he's the Messiah. There's a whole crowd of people following through the city of Jericho. Now, do we know what everyone in that crowd thinks of Jesus? No, we do not. But we know the blind guy got it. The blind guy knew that the man walking through town, and keep in mind, he can't see. How does he know there's a large crowd? He hears the hustle bustle. He probably knows the annual calendar. He knows when people travel. All of a sudden, the noise level ticks up. Lots of people shuffling, sounds of beasts of burdened animals helping people travel. And then all of a sudden, he begins to hear, did you hear what Jesus of Nazareth just said? I can't wait till he teaches tonight. Man, that guy teaches really great. I really wish the preacher would stop whispering. Whatever Bartimaeus heard, he heard Jesus of Nazareth and immediately made the connection. Jesus of Nazareth is the Messiah, and he went for it. He belted it out. Jesus, son of David, or I could say, Jesus, my Messiah, have mercy on me. The words in Hebrew mean a little bit more than they do in English. The actual words in Hebrew for have mercy is a single Hebrew word, and it means to help one or an individual who is afflicted or in need of personal aid. This is not like Elvis, have mercy. Completely different. That's my best Elvis impression you're going to get. I'm going to try. This word in Hebrew, when he uses this and he says, have mercy, Bartimaeus is identifying with the fact that he is afflicted, and he is in need of assistance. This word signifies, I know I'm broken. I know I'm broken. But more than that, put his whole sentence together. Jesus, my Messiah, I know I'm broken. Please help me. Now all of a sudden, his statement of son of David, have mercy on me, has a whole deeper connotation to it. Jesus, my Messiah, I'm broken. Please help me, is really what he said, if I were to transliterate it into English. So then what happens next? The crowd tries to silence Bartimaeus. Here he is, blind guy, begging by the roadside, probably in his normal everyday spot. And the crowd that is following Jesus, the crowd that is walking by, tries to silence him. Look at verse 48. Many rebuked him. This is not just the one crotchety old guy in the crowd, right? This is not the one Oscar the Grouch that happens to be, I mean, it's not just one guy. This is a group of people. That was not the moment to elbow your neighbor, okay? Nobody elbow your neighbor and tell them that they're the Oscar the Grouch of our church. This is multiple people. Many in the crowd are saying, Bartimaeus, away dude. Why? Why silence somebody saying such a beautiful phrase? Jesus, my Messiah, I'm broken, will you help me? Why silence Bartimaeus? Because in the crowd's perspective, Bartimaeus is not worth the time for the teacher to stop. He's teaching, he's being followed by a huge crowd. He's people who are adoring him, hanging on every word. And dude, you're just a beggar. You're just a boring little panhandler outside of Walmart. The teacher is not to be bothered with you. He has more important people to minister to. That's the connotation of the crowd. Many rebuked him and then instead of giving up, Bartimaeus has enough faith. Look what he does. But he shouted all the more, Messiah, I'm broken, please help me. Now I have to say, if you've ever been in a situation where someone stood up and told you to shut your mouth when talking about Jesus, it takes an awful lot of bravery to belt it out even louder. If you've ever been in one of those situations, you're talking about your faith, possibly in a secular environment, whether it's work or whether it's just out in a restaurant somewhere. And somebody comes up to you and says, you know what, can you just tone down the Jesus mess? Like we're not at church. I spend a lot of time talking to people who don't like God. I spend a lot of time drinking coffee at Starbucks. And I have had this very thing happen to me. I'm having a conversation, just me and a friend, sitting at Starbucks talking openly about God or the Bible or my faith. And somebody will, I mean, as incredibly arrogant, interjectory millennials go, they'll take their coffee, sit down right in front of you and be like, okay, I've been listening to you for like five minutes. Can you please just shut up for Jesus talk? Take your crap, go to church. This is public speech. I really don't want to hear your stuff. What I think is hilarious is they want the freedom of speech, but they don't want to let me have it. They don't want it to be okay for me to sit in Starbucks and sip a latte and talk about Jesus. And you know what? In that moment, you've got a choice to make. Are you going to have the bravery to go, if you remember me, I'll remember you? Or am I going to be quiet? Am I going to shrink back? Now keep in mind, this is not one individual. This is a crowd of people. Many people in the crowd are telling Bartimaeus to be quiet. The teacher's too busy. Many people. And Bartimaeus just shouts all the more, i.e. shouts even louder. Jesus, my Messiah, I am broken. Please hear me. You can almost hear the desperation in the words. His faith is so strong, keep in mind, buried in his statement, is he believes that Jesus can do something about it. It's not just Jesus, I'm broken. No, the connotation there, Jesus, my Messiah, I'm broken. Help me. He shouts even more. Then Jesus hears him. We don't know how large the crowd is, but since Bartimaeus is blind, we know the crowd has to have a certain decibel level, or Ms. Marie, he wouldn't have heard the crowd. So the crowd itself makes a certain just tone level of noise. And in the midst of the average noise of the crowd, Jesus hears the cry of one man. Look at verse 49. First two words, Jesus stopped. Now, why is Jesus traveling through Jericho? Most likely to get to Jerusalem. Jericho is not the intentional stop here. But because of a ministry moment, because of a moment when Jesus can affect the life, and he hears the cry of faith, he stops. And of course, if Jesus stops, then by proxy that means the crowd stops. Everyone following Jesus stops. And Jesus turns and he says, give me him. Give me the guy. That guy right there. Bring him here. Because Jesus is a guido in my head. He calls him to him. And here's what I love. Look at the end of this sentence. Now look what the crowd says. Half a minute ago, the crowd was saying, Bartimaeus, dude, lay off. He's too busy. When Jesus stops, now all of a sudden the crowd goes, dude, cheer up. Get on your feet. He's here. Do you see the immediate 180 degree change in the crowd as a character? First, many in the crowd, not just one person, not just one grumpy curmudgeon in the group, a group of people, many telling Bartimaeus, will you please shut up. Dude, lay away. Now all of a sudden Jesus stops and the temperature of the crowd changes. And they say, cheer up. Get on your feet. He's calling for you. I just wish there are moments in scripture where I personally would like to go back, but I just grab the Tardis really quick, jump back in time, and see the look on people's face. I don't need to actually be there, but just to see the look on people's face. That one guy who had just said, Bartimaeus, dude, shut up. The teacher doesn't have time for you. And then all of a sudden Jesus makes the time. Jesus stops what he's doing. He stops in the midst of what he's doing, stopping the entire crowd along with him. And then all of a sudden all the other people in the crowd are going, dude, cheer up. He heard you. He said, get up on your feet. Now how exactly does Bartimaeus make it to Jesus? One of two things. Either Bartimaeus has echolocation like a bat and knows exactly where Jesus is in the crowd, or these people who are saying, get up on your feet, the likelihood is they're helping him. So the crowd goes from trying to silence him to trying to help him at one word of Jesus, call for him. And the crowd then raises up and he begins there. Then Bartimaeus wanted to follow Jesus more than he wanted his old life. This is super important. Big point here. Verse 50. Verse 50. Throwing his cloak aside. Now this seems like somewhat of a superfluous detail. This is why I wanted you to understand the setting so well. Blind guy stationed himself on a major religious thoroughfare intentionally to do what? What was his goal when we started the story? He's sitting there begging for what? Money. Show me that money. And why is he begging for money? Because he has no way to earn it himself. He's blind. There's not a job in the first century that he can do. Why is that super important? What do you think was in the cloak? The money. The cloak was his outer garment. The outer garment is what had all the pockets in it. The outer garment is where he stored the money that he was begging for. And now in the moment when Jesus says, come here, all the money he'd been begging, he just drops it and runs. He just drops the cloak, money with it, and says, I want more of that than I want the rest of this. I want more of Jesus than I want everything that's come before it. And I'm willing to sacrifice, to get rid of. He literally says throwing his cloak, he jumped to his feet. You see the motivation here in his actions? This is not a, okay, well Jesus said okay, I'll go check it out. No, this is a, I'm on it. Boom. And he bounces over to Jesus as quickly as a blind man can run. He throws, it's almost like he discards it, throwing his cloak aside. All the money he'd been begging for that day. Meaningless in the face of being able to be face to face to the Savior. The old life that he had of begging moment to moment. The old life that he lived in of having to beg in order to get the simplest bitsy morsels gone. Meaningless, nothing, because I get to be with the Savior. I'm going to be face to face. And he jumps to his feet and he comes to Jesus. And then, this is my favorite verse in this entire thing, my next point. Bartimaeus' healing was not just for him. This is the big point that I think too many people miss. Bartimaeus' healing was not just for him. Look at verse 51. In verse 51, so now let's just role play for a second here, okay? Wes, you're blind. Can you take off your glasses for me? It's your birthday so I might as well pick on you some more. Okay. Everybody just make noise. Just, ahhh, everybody make a lot of noise. Okay, okay, stop. Bring me the blind guy. So Trish, get up and bring me the blind guy. You can't, you gotta close your eyes. You gotta keep them closed. You gotta bring me the blind guy. I need you to see this. I need you to see what Jesus does here. Okay? Okay, now you still have your eyes closed. You can't see. The next thing Jesus says, what do you want me to do for you? Now, does Bartimaeus know he's blind? Does Jesus know he's blind? Why ask the question? Who gets the benefit from Jesus knowing the guy's blind and the blind guy knowing the guy's blind? Why as Jesus am I asking a blind guy what does he want? Bartimaeus knows he's blind. The Savior knows he's blind. Who's the question really for? The crowd. Thank you. Now you can be healed and go back to your seat. You see that? Jesus knew the guy was blind. Bartimaeus knew he was blind. There's only one person or group of people who benefit from openly asking the question. It's the crowd. The crowd of people who tried to silence him. The crowd of people who said, you're not worth the teacher's time. Don't bother him. He's on the way to something more important. They're the ones the question was for. Because Bartimaeus knew he couldn't see. And Jesus knew he couldn't see. But Jesus asked the question, what do you want me to do for you? And the blind man said, Rabbi. Now I need to give you the cultural understanding here. The word Rabbi literally translates to my master or my great one. And it's not just the job of a teacher. When you call someone Rabbi, you are subconsciously saying, I submit to your teaching. It's not just someone who teaches. It's someone who's teaching you are placing yourself under. You are willingly submitting to this person when you call them Rabbi. In fact, in Hebrew he didn't use the word Rabbi. He used the word Rabonai, which is a jacked up version of Rabbi. He didn't just say Rabbi. He said Rabonai. That doesn't just mean my master. That means like my master's master. That's like Yoda on the scale of mastery. Okay? And it's way up there. Rabonai. That's literally the word that he uses. He's saying, I submit to you in what I'm about to say. I am willingly going to submit to your teachings in your word in what I'm about to say. So Rabonai, and then he says what everybody's expecting him to say. I want to see. Now, the crowd does not get the benefit of verse 46 that we did. The crowd doesn't necessarily know he's blind. There are other reasons for begging. He could have been lame. He could have had broken bones. He could have been born physically deformed. The crowd doesn't know he's blind. So look at what is accomplished by Jesus asking the question, what do you want me to do for you? And then him saying, Rabonai, I want to see. Now, everybody knows what his brokenness is. Because remember, he started with Messiah, I'm broken. Well, now the whole crowd has gotten the definition of Bartimaeus's brokenness. I want to see. And then Jesus simply, all right, go ahead then. That's the International Bill translation. I want to see. All right, go ahead then. Your faith has healed you. And immediately, Wednesday day and Wednesday night, remember I talked about those words that have chronological significance? No downtime. Right? No downtime. Between the time he said, Rabonai, I want to see. And Jesus said, all right, go ahead then. There's no downtime at all. Immediately, he receives his sight. Now, we could have stopped the story right there. Cue the music, alter call. Jesus is a healer. But Mark doesn't stop the story there. He gives us one final detail about Bartimaeus. He followed Jesus along the road. Why is this uber significant? Because remember I told you, remember the setting. When the story opened, where was Bartimaeus? On the side of the road. And what was he doing? Begging. And was he in motion or was he sedentary? He was sedentary, right? When the story opens, Bartimaeus is seated and he is sedentary and he is in need. And when the story ends, he is walking, he is in motion, and he is no longer in need. It is a complete 180 transformation that began with the faith to say, Master, I am broken. Please heal me. That responded in faith by submitting to Jesus, Rabonai, I want to see. And that ultimately follows in faith. He never went back for the cloak. He never went back for his old life. He was completely healed of what he asked the Savior for. And then he followed Jesus along the road and he never went back. That is the personal ministry of Jesus. When Jesus ministers to someone one on one, there is no need for the old life. There is no need to go back. There is no need to look back or be hindered by that which was in the past because the path that Jesus is leading on, my Rabonai is going that way. So I am a follower. That is the power of Jesus' one on one ministry. Now my question for you this morning is have you had a one on one moment with the Savior that was so powerful, that was so moving that you didn't go back? Remember, his cloak had all the money in it. His cloak was the symbol of his life up until the moment he met Jesus. And I think if we are all honest, we have all had some sort of defining characteristic that was the symbol of our life before we came to Christ. I can tell you what the symbol of my life was. Arrogance. I was an arrogant, arrogant fool. And I say that intentionally, I was a fool. My arrogance influenced my relationship with my family. It influenced my relationship with the young ladies that I met before I met my wife. My arrogance influenced school. It influenced work. I lost jobs because I was unwilling to take correction. My arrogance had influenced my life to the point that when we are honest, that's really what my life was centered around. My life was centered around me being right. And if I'm not right, then I'm just going to change the game to where I am right. That was my brokenness. I'll be very honest. That was my brokenness. I was the center of my own compass. And I had to be willing to take that cloak off and leave it behind and then not go back for it. That's the big key in the story of Bartimaeus. Don't go back for your old life. Because Jesus is leading away from your old life. There's nothing back there that's going to help you over there. That's where we need to go. That's why they say that's where we need to be from. And that's where we're going to. Now I don't know what your brokenness is this morning, but my mentor, he says it this way. Bethy, we're all broken. Some of us just wear our brokenness on the outside, and some of us hide it better on the inside. But as you sit here this morning, you're not fooling me. Everybody's broken. We're broken in different ways. We're broken into different pieces. We're broken at different times of our life over different things. But we all approach the Savior with the same sentence. Messiah, I'm broken. Please help me. That's the only thing I want you to think about right now. If you were Bartimaeus, are you willing to let go of that cloak? Let go of whatever your old life had earned you in order to get the new life that God wants for you.