We are going to conclude the series that we've been in for the last few weeks called Finding Forgiveness. Now if you have not been here, for the previous messages of Finding Forgiveness, that is okay. Every message stands on its own, but there is a cumulative value from the series. So let's first take a look at what forgiveness is not. Forgiveness isn't forgetting. Forgiving isn't excusing. Forgiving isn't approving. Forgiving isn't getting even. Forgiving isn't reconciling. Forgiving isn't pretending. And forgiving isn't avoiding. What is forgiveness? Forgiveness is being fully aware of a hurt or offense and choosing to forgive someone. It is being fully aware of a hurt or offense and choosing to forgive. And why should we forgive those who hurt and offend us? Because God has called us to And our relationship with Him is directly affected when we don't. Now this week we are going to do our final message, which is entitled Finding Forgiveness. What happens if I don't forgive? What happens if I don't forgive? In our first message we established what forgiveness is. In our second message I established why I feel that forgiveness is important. Last week we talked about barriers to forgiveness. If you missed any of those messages or would like to share them, you can find them on reedswood.com. There is a tab on our website that also acts as a sermon player. So you don't need anything else other than your web browser. But you can browse those right on reedswood.com. This morning I want to give you a warning. I want to finish out our series this morning with a warning of what happens when we don't forgive. Ms. Silona, up to this point I have done my best to make the case for what forgiveness is and why it's important and how to break through those barriers that may be holding you back. This morning I'm going to switch the tone and Tyler I'm going to give you five warnings. Five warnings of what will happen if you do not forgive others. So let's take a look at the first one this morning. What happens if I don't forgive? I no longer represent God. Now I should say here that if you are here this morning and you have not made the decision to follow Jesus, absolutely you are welcome and we love you. But this statement right here specifically applies to those who have selected and chosen to call themselves Christians and to follow the teachings of Jesus. If you do not forgive when people hurt you or offend you, you no longer represent your heavenly Father. Take a look at Luke chapter 6, verse 32. It's actually going to be over several screens here. So this is Luke chapter 6. We're going to begin our reading in verse 32 and this is in the New King James. It says this, But if you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good for those who do good to you, then what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive back, what credit is that to you? For even sinners lend to sinners to receive much back. But love your enemies. Do good and lend hoping for nothing in return. And your reward will be great and you will be sons of the Most High. For He is kind to the unthankful and evil. Therefore be merciful as your Father is also merciful. Now Jesus lays up the common analogy here. We like to be good to people who are good to us. It's easy to be friends to people who are friendly to me. It's easy to not be friendly when people are not friendly to me. That's the trap. It's easy when you think in your own carnal mentality, in your own depraved humanity. It's easy to be friends with the people I like and enemies with the people I don't like. And I'll treat nicely those who treat me well and I will treat badly those who treat me badly. That is our natural human inclination. And I believe Jesus is pointing out here that that gives no credit to what? That's the big question here. What is it credit to? Well when we accept Christ, Scripture says we become a new creation. What else happens? All my sin, past, present and future is forgiven. And one very important third thing happens. I receive the Holy Spirit of God to live within me. And what is the purpose of that Spirit empowerment? To live a life that represents the Father who has purchased my soul. Not to live a life that represents the fleshly me that was here and belonged to sin before I was forgiven. The way I used to say it when I was a youth pastor. Dusty, can I pick on you for a quick minute? Here we go. For all of you math fans, here's your church math problem for the day. If Dusty plus Jesus equals Dusty, how much does Jesus worth? Think about it. If Dusty plus Jesus equals the same as Dusty by himself, what is Jesus worth? Zero. If X plus zero equals X, now I'm really really taking you back, right? If Dusty plus Jesus is no different than Dusty without Jesus, then Jesus means nothing. That's why it is so important that when we come to Christ, when we have our sins forgiven and the Spirit poured within us, that we live the new life. The old man is gone, the new has come. We have a new life to live. And I have a life to live that represents a Savior who loved me way more than I can love him back. Yeah. And that's a challenge to live that way. But as he's pointing out here, if you're still post conversion, after you've accepted Christ, after your soul has been refreshed, renewed, and you are Spirit-indwelt, if you still act the way you did before God came in your life, then your lifestyle is screaming, my Savior means nothing. It's yelling at you at the top of your lungs. Dusty plus Jesus equals Dusty beforehand. Jesus equals zero. It is no credit to your faith. Think about this. We're going to talk about Revelation later on this year. When we get to the end of days and the body of Christ stands before the bemma seat of judgment. This is not the Great White Throne judgment. This is the judgment for the believers of the church. We will stand before Jesus and be judged on the activities of our life. And we will either be rewarded based on the activity of our life. What credit will be paid to you at the bemma if your actions post Jesus are the same as your actions pre-Jesus? Then that means Jesus has made no change in your life. If you choose to hold on to bitterness and anger and frustration and guilt and all of those dark icky yucky feelings that we talked about last week, those barriers that hold us back from forgiving, if you choose to hold on to those, you are choosing to make the change that God made in your life square out to a zero. If Bill plus Jesus is no different than Bill pre-Jesus, Jesus has done nothing in the life of Bill. And ultimately, when I make it to the bemma, I may be saved. I may know Jesus is my Savior, but have no credit on my account. No store up for yourselves, treasures in heaven. No well done and good in my faithful servant. I may skinny in the door of heaven, which by the way is still a blessing, but it will be no credit to me. My faith has borne no fruit in my life. Let's take a look at the second reason. What happens if I don't forgive? I give the devil an opportunity. Now let's stick here just for a minute Mr. Zach. Let's talk some basic angelology, okay? I am not a huge fan of going into depth about what angels can and can't do. I believe that a lot of it is conjecture, but there are some very basic foundational angelological. Can I say that? Brian is okay, can I just make up a word? Like it's my sermon, I can do that, right? Angelology. So therefore in the adjective form, would it be angiological? Angiological. That's what we're going with. I give the devil an opportunity. Well here's your basic angiological understanding from the Bible. Angels are real. Okay, let's just, angels are real. Angels are created being, created by God the Father. Before humanity was created, there was a war in heaven, and some angels fell, and now we call them demons. Just want to make sure everybody can say that word out loud. Demons, that's right. They are still the same created being that they were in the beginning, which means angels and demons are the same type of created being, but they now answer to two different authorities. True angels, the angels who are still in heaven with God the Father, sovereign Lord, answer to him and him alone. Angels who have fallen and been cast out of heaven are led by Satan. Satan himself is an angel. In fact, the scripture says he is an archangel. That's the base understanding you have to have. That's all the angelology I want to get into this morning. Angels are real, therefore since angels are real, demons are real, and all the demons who are cast out of heaven live where? On earth. With that in mind, let's take a look at Ephesians 4.25-27. This is the English Standard Version. Ephesians 4, starting in verse 25, and this is the ESV or the English Standard Version. This is the Apostle Paul speaking to the Christian church in a town called Ephesus. Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. Be angry and do not sin. That is a sermon unto itself. Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger and give no opportunity to the devil. Now, this passage is not directly addressing the issue of forgiveness, but it does address an issue that I believe is related, and that's why I chose to include it in our sermon this morning. He is talking about the treatment from one Christian towards another Christian within the body of Christ. That's very applicable for a Sunday morning, I would think. How do we treat one another? And Paul is very clear. First, having put away falsehood, there is no room for lying amongst brethren. Let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. If you are a member of the Christian church, you belong to everyone else in the Christian church, and everyone else belongs to you. It is supposed to be a collaborative relationship. This is the most difficult, six words of the Scripture that give me the most difficult time. Be angry and do not sin. Now, what does that tell me? It's not a sin in and of itself to be angry. Anger is an emotion. Anger is not a sin. Jesus was angry. Scripture says God the Father has been angry. However, I would find, Jason, most of the times that I am angry, temptation is not too far off of that pedestal. I get angry and I am already flirting with that temptation just by getting those emotions driven up and getting that engine running. I find that temptation is so much easier to give into when one is already at that heightened angry emotional state. But be angry and do not sin. That also tells me that it is not only possible, but it is godly to be able to recognize when I am angry and resist the temptation to sin. Anger and sin are not the same thing. You can totally be angry and yet not give in to the temptation to sin. Furthermore, he says, do not let the sun go down on your anger. Another way I have heard this preached in pastors is never go to bed angry. Don't let the sun go down. Don't waste a good night's sleep because you went to bed angry. You get on that phone, you call, you talk it out. If they live in the same neighborhood, you drive over, crack a drink, sit in their parking lot and talk it out. But do not let anger into your heart overnight. That is super hard for me because I used to get offended very easily. And I had to work and learn how to not be so angry. And then look at what he says here. Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger. And in the same sentence, give no opportunity to the devil. Give no opportunity. Now, basic angelology teaches us that Satan is a created being. He is an archangel. Because of willing disobedience, he fell. And now his primary role is to tempt man to sin. He is doing the same thing he has been doing since the Garden of Eden. Okay? He is way more practiced at his job than we are at our job. Can we just be honest? He is way more efficient. He has been studying humanity since Adam and Eve, tempting us to sin. And the only human being to ever walk the earth who did not give in to the devil's temptation was our Savior. And he did it while in fleshly form. So it is completely possible to be angry and not sin. But the end of this sentence, the end of this last verse, is where the warning really comes in. If you were to choose to be angry and sin, if you were to choose to let the sun go down on your anger, you would by proxy be choosing to open the back door for the enemy to cause more spiritual problems in your life than are necessary. I can't stand up here and say that he who lives a holy lifestyle is devoid, or at least not completely devoid, but has less impact from sin, and not say the reverse. He who lives a sinful lifestyle has more of an impact from sin. Forgiveness of sin does not equal absolution of consequence. And you'd be lying to yourself if you did not understand the truth that the enemy has a plan for your life, and that plan equals destruction every time. And the Savior has a plan for your life, and that plan equals life and blessing every time. We live in that spiritual conflict. The enemy would love for us to be destroyed. The Savior would love for us to be blessed, and it is our actions that sometimes we sway back and forth. When we willingly choose sin, when we willingly choose not to forgive those who have hurt us, you are holding onto anger, you are holding onto bitterness, and you are about five seconds away from creating another opportunity for the enemy to ruin your day. For creating another opportunity for the enemy to tempt you to sin. Don't be silly. Don't be the ostrich Christian who buries your head in the sand and ignores the spiritual reality in which we live. I know that pragmatism and relativism and pluralism and scientism and all these other isms that are garnishing the world marketplace of beliefs. They try to tell us that the spiritual realm doesn't exist. They try to tell us that, in fact, that quiz we took on Facebook, Zach. Zach tagged me in a quiz on Facebook this week. I just thought of it. And it was all about mythology. And it was Greek mythology and Roman mythology and Egyptian mythology and Norse mythology, Celtic, Japanese. It listed angels right alongside of the Hydra and the Willow of the Wisp from Celtic mythology and the Minotaur from Greek mythology. It listed angels as another mythological creature. And I was just struck as I looked at that. That's the world view of our world today. That the things we know are scripturally true are being relegated to the same pages of ancient lore and legend as Celtic, Greek and Roman mythologies. Don't give in to that trap. There is a devil. He is very real. He would love to destroy your life and your eternity. We have to not allow those kind of opportunities. Let's take a look at our next point. I cause the Holy Spirit to grieve. Now here is the reverse. I cause the Holy Spirit to grieve. Take me one more. Here we go. Ephesians chapter 4, same chapter. Now verse 30-32 and this is the Holman Christian Standard Bible or the HCSB. Don't grieve God's Holy Spirit. Stop. Just stop on that sentence. Don't grieve God's Holy Spirit. Now we have to talk about the theology of God and who He is. God is a person. He is not just a creator. God is in fact three persons. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. One of the identifying factors of personhood is the ability to feel and have emotions. Think about John 3-16. For God so loved the world. Think about the shortest verse in the Bible. Jesus wept. Jesus wept is what I was thinking of. In order for God to meet the criteria of personhood, He has to not only be self-evident, but He has to be an emotional impact. Have an emotional impact. Well this is an example of the Spirit. We don't often think about the Holy Spirit as a ghost or as the fire that fell at Pentecost. Or as who filled David to defeat Goliath or Samson in the Old Testament. Or we think of Him as water and He baptizes. The Holy Spirit is just as much of an equal part of the Trinity as God the Father and God the Son. Which means He also is emotionally impacted by the actions of man. And here's a great example. Don't grieve the Holy Spirit. You were sealed by Him for the day of redemption. All bitterness, anger, and wrath, shouting and slander must be removed from you along with all malice. And be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving one another just as God forgave you. Now you may recognize the latter part of that verse. We looked at it earlier in the series. I held the sentence right before it until this week for a purpose. If you realize, don't grieve the Holy Spirit, you will be sealed by Him for the day of redemption. When one becomes a Christian, when we come to the full knowledge of faith in Christ, our sins are forgiven and we are indwelt by who? By the Holy Spirit. That means that the Holy Spirit travels within me wherever I go. It's not like putting on a coat. I can't forget to walk out my door and forget to take the Spirit with me. I put the Spirit on the moment I'm up, He is a part of me. Can I ever walk away and forget Him by accident? No, not really. So have you ever considered the reality that you can disregard Him? That's exactly right. You can disregard Him, but you cannot take Him off like a coat. So have you ever considered the reality that everything you do every day, post conversion, whether sin or grace, you force the Holy Spirit to experience? Because if He is inside you and you can't forget Him, that also means you can't intentionally take Him off. You could disregard His presence. You could tell yourself He's not really there. You could ignore the voice of conviction in your mind when you're about to sin and you know it's wrong. But what you can't do is stop the Spirit from experiencing that which you do because He's a part of you. If you have made that decision to become a Christian, you live in the empowerment of God's Spirit. That Spirit is there to help you overcome the world, not make Him a part of it. Just let that ruminate for a minute. Whatever the last sin was that you did, you can pick it in your mind. Don't elbow anybody. The Holy Spirit participated in that by proxy because He's a part of you. Don't grieve Him. Don't choose actions that intentionally hurt the heart of God. Why? Because it is by the Spirit for which we were sealed for the day of redemption. That is our guarantee. Jesus said, I am leaving, but I am sending you. What is the proof of being saved? The presence of the Spirit in your life. It's the Get Into Heaven Free card. It's the I've got my membership. God, I'm good. Let me in the door. And it's also that you wake up every day and you're not, oh, I wonder if that was just a mythology. I wonder if that was just some random prayer that I made some random time. No. You have the Spirit within you every day to remind you you're my child now. You don't belong to the world. You don't belong to sin. You belong to me, your sovereign Creator who loved you and sent my Son for you. And here's your promise, your guarantee, that until you get to see me again, you don't have to fight the sinful world on your own. All bitterness, anger, wrath, shouting, and slander, all of those are things that grieve God's Spirit. Why? Because all of those things are really based in selfishness. Like, let's be honest. Somebody hurts you. Somebody offends you. You choose to take the moral ground. You choose to take the high horse that says, I'm right and the rest of you are wrong. And that's obviously not God's heart. God's heart was, He received my punishment when it was due to me, but He took it anyway. Be kind and compassionate, forgiving one another. God also has, God has forgiven in you and Christ. You cannot, and I say this every week because this is really what this whole series boils down to. You cannot accept the forgiveness of God and refuse to forgive another human being. Those two things are antithetical to one another. How can you see yourself a sinner when the Bible says that our righteousness is as filthy rags unto God? The best holiness we could ever accomplish is no better than filthy rags to God. Even our best day is still offensive to His holiness. That's how amazing His sovereignty is. And yet we hold on to the minor little offenses between ourselves. Don't do that. Don't grieve His Spirit. Let's go forward again. I am inviting the Lord's discipline. Here's the, hopefully I've stepped your feet into the water, Dusty, now we're just jumping. Now we're just jumping into that 14 foot diving well. Head first, here we go. You invite the Lord's discipline. Take a look at this. Now, what I am about to read to you is the ending verses of the parable of the unforgiving servant. If you want to read the entire parable, you're going to need to rewind to, I believe it's verse 20 or 21, where Jesus begins the story. Now I will tell you the beginning of the story and then we'll pick it up here with the ellipsis. Jesus tells this story. A master calls in a servant who owes him an incredibly large debt. We'll go ahead and call that debt $10 million. So we bring, a master calls in a servant who owes him $10 million and says, Repay, your debt is due today. The servant begs the master, Master, I don't have it. Please be benevolent. I will work harder. I will get it for you. There's no way I could pay that amount of money today. The master looks at his servant. It's filled with benevolence and says, Okay, your debt is forgiven. Really? All $10 million? Yes. I love you. Your debt is forgiven. The servant walks out, walks down the street, finds a fellow servant who owes him $10 grand. Not $10 million, $10 grand. And demands that the servant pay him back the $10,000 that he's owed. The servant refuses. So the first servant who got the $10 million debt canceled goes and he finds the jailer and he says, Jail this cat because he can't owe me my $10 large. The master hears about the servant having the $10 million debt forgiven, but refused to forgive the $10,000 debt. Then the master called his servant, meaning the $10 million servant, in and said, You evil servant! Because you begged me to forgive what you owed. I told you that you did not have to pay anything. You should have showed mercy to that other servant just as I showed mercy to you. The master was very angry and put the servant in prison to be punished until he could pay everything he owed. This king did what my heavenly father will do to you if you do not forgive your brother or sister from your heart. Now, I need to point out here, there are two perspectives of this parable. One perspective is that the prison and being punished is that the Lord revokes your salvation if you choose not to forgive another human being. I do not think that that is an accurate application of this parable because in other places in Scripture we clearly see that salvation is by Christ alone, through faith alone, by grace alone. So if the punishment is not that God revokes my eternal salvation, then we have to ask ourselves, what is the prison and what is the punishment? Well, at the time, that word punished really does translate to the word torture. He would have gone into prison and been put through a hurt locker. So if God is not going to revoke my salvation because that was bought by the purchase of Christ alone, then what is he going to do? That does not necessarily mean that God is going to make my life on this earth any easier. I may not lose my salvation, but Zach, God can choose to make my life on this earth more difficult. He can choose to withhold his hand of blessing and allow me to experience the full fruit of my unforgiving actions for hopefully to benefit me that I will choose to forgive. And the ultimate lesson that the Master is trying to give the unforgiving servant is that he should have forgiven. And so I am going to help teach you this lesson. I am going to put you in prison and I am going to give you a spanking so that you can figure out that you should have had the character to forgive. Why? Because I forgave. The servant should reflect his Master. The benevolence of a ten million dollar debt forgiven and the selfishness of a ten thousand dollar debt demanded. I do not believe that this parable speaks of losing your salvation, but what I do believe it says very clearly is that if you choose not to forgive those who offend you, you willingly invite the Lord's discipline in your earthly life. That is the correct interpretation of this passage in my opinion. I do know that there are people who see it the other way and I am more than willing to allow for healthy theological discourse. But when I had to prep this passage and I had to think, do I really believe that by not forgiving my uncle or my aunt or my brother or the guy who can't figure out how to use a turn signal in Wal-Mart, that I am going to lose my salvation because I have an issue with people who can't drive without turn signals? And my wife is not in the room or she would say that I am the chiefest of sinners because I always forget to use my turn signal. But I will say this, that's the words of Jesus when he said, this king did what my heavenly father will do to you if you do not forgive. Here is the heavy hitter of the day. If you choose, if you feel that in your life you are justified, you are right in holding on to bitterness, anger and resentment and not forgiving someone, then you are justified and you are inviting the Lord to make your life more difficult. You are inviting the Lord's discipline to correct you because you are not justified to hold on to unforgiveness. If you have accepted the forgiveness of God, that's the $10 million debt. Salvation, gone. I am saved once and for all. My sins separated from these from the West. We looked at that earlier in this series. What I am saying is this, I don't need to give God a reason to give me more discipline than he feels is necessary for the betterment of my character. I understand there have been times, and we had this conversation with a friend this week, Meli and I, we have several phrases that we use around the house, and one of them is, people are like bugs. People are like bugs. And this is our phrase for helping to remember that we should have God the character. People are like bugs. Why? Because you don't really know what's in them until you squish them. People are like bugs. You don't really know what's inside until you squish them. When you get squeezed, when you are under pressure, when you are under stress, when you are under the crucible and the weight of life, all of a sudden what's inside of you is going to come out. And if you are a person who when you are stressed responds with anger, you have a friend. I had to learn how to take that last verse, be angry and don't sin. I had to learn that anger is not the appropriate response to all forms of stress. That's not a healthy God, that's not godly character. That does not reflect the Savior in my everyday life. But I will tell you very surely, and almost even if you look at this verse and see it as the revoking of your salvation, or you look at it in my perspective, which is inviting of the Lord's discipline, you get the same point. Choose not to forgive and choose to invite God's size consequences. This is the heavy hitter of the story. You should not be justified in holding on to unforgiveness. Because if you do, you are asking the Lord to discipline you. Lord, I am still a spoiled child. Help me to reflect your character. And He will do so with as many spankings as He feels is sovereignly necessary to correct your character. So please, don't hold on to unforgiveness. Last point Mr. Zach. I am causing division in the church. Here's your fifth and final warning for why you should not consider it acceptable to hold on to unforgiveness. Let's take a look. This is from, I put my notes down because I was having a good time. I believe it's Corinthians, right? Second Corinthians. Alright. Second Corinthians, chapter 2, we are going to read 5 to 11 in the New International Version, NIV. This is the Apostle Paul writing his second letter to the church at Corinth. If anyone has caused grief, he has not so much grieved me as he has grieved all of you to some extent. Not to put it too severely. The punishment inflicted on him by the majority is sufficient. Now instead, you ought to forgive and comfort him so that he will not be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. I urge you therefore to reaffirm your love for him. Another reason I wrote you was to see if you would stand the test and be obedient in everything. Anyone you forgive, I also forgive. And what I have forgiven, if there was anything to forgive, I have forgiven in the sight of Christ for your sake. In order that Satan might not outwit us, for we are not unaware of his schemes. Now there's a lot going on here. So Mr. Zach, will you take me back one slide? If anyone has caused grief, stop. This is what you need to understand about this letter. There was a person, and it's just referred to as he, so I'm assuming it's a dude. Probably not the individual mentioned in 1 Corinthians because there's no mention of sexual sin here. There was someone addressed in 1 Corinthians who had a major sexual sin in the church. I do not believe this is the same person. This person has caused grief to the church. So there is a random person, probably male, in the church at Corinth who did something that greatly offended or caused grief to the majority of the church. He has not so much grieved me, meaning he hasn't really hurt me, Kayla. I'm not there in Ephesus with you right now. I'm actually in prison writing you this letter. But I understand that this person has grieved all of you to some extent, not to put it too severely. So clearly whatever this person did upset an awful lot of people. The punishment inflicted on him by the majority is sufficient. So the next thing I need you to see, this individual did something that offended the church at Corinth, and they instilled church discipline. Whatever it was, we're not told, and whatever the extent of the discipline, we are not told. But whatever it is, the punishment inflicted on him by the majority, meaning the majority of the church instilled some form of church discipline, is sufficient. It was enough. That's right. You can go overboard with punishment. It was enough. Paul is saying it's sufficient. Now instead, meaning turning from the hand of punishment, now instead you ought to forgive and comfort him so that he will not be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. This is the person who had hurt the church in some way we don't know. But there is clearly a person in the Corinthian church who did something so egregious that the church had to instill church discipline. And then Paul is saying, stop. There's a point at which discipline stops and love begins, so that he will not be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. Who is the person who is ultimately hurt the most if the church discipline is not reigned in with love? The offender, not the offended. It's the person, whoever this random guy was, and whatever he did, the punishment was so severe that if you were to keep going with it, he would be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. I urge you, Paul says, to the rest of the church, therefore reaffirm your love for the offender. Reaffirm your love. Why do we have to reaffirm it? Because let's be honest, if the entire church were to stand together and issue a punishment to you, wouldn't you kind of feel like nobody loved you anymore? I mean, let's just be honest. If all of you stood right together and voted for the I should be fired because I super suck at my job and I am no longer qualified to be the pastor, it wouldn't matter if Jason didn't feel that way. Maybe Jason wanted me to stay, but everybody else wanted me to go. What I felt was the decision of the majority. And the majority said, Bill, you don't belong here anymore. Deuces will help you pack your bags. I would be hurt by everyone, even if everyone wasn't hurt by me. And this is what Paul is saying. Reaffirm your love for him. Another reason I wrote to you was to see if you would stand the test. What's the test? The test is not for the person who offended the church. The test is for the church. Can you get over your offense? Can you get over whatever this man did who hurt you and do your real job, which is love and be obedient and everything? Go forward again. Anyone you forgive, I also forgive. This is not Paul speaking as God. This is not Paul speaking that if you get to forgive, then God forgives the sin. No. Paul is saying, if you will forgive the person who offended you and hurt you, who you've now disciplined, if you will roll back that discipline and roll out the red carpet of love, then I will also forgive that person. And what I have forgiven, if there anything was to forgive, I have forgiven in the sight of Christ for your sake. Paul is saying, I will forgive not for the offended person's sake. You've already disciplined them. They've already been outed. They've already been hurt because the majority of you have disciplined them. I have forgiven in the sight of Christ for your sake. And then look how he ends it. In order that Satan may not outwit us, for we are not aware of his schemes. Here's the biggest problem with church discipline. You ready for this? Everybody loves the idea of calling out sin where sin is, right? Everybody loves the idea of the church being purified because people are too afraid to sin when they come here. But nobody loves the idea of loving the person after they've been disciplined because that's hard and it's icky and it's sticky and it's difficult and it's messy and everything else. Paul's final point here about forgiveness is that if you cannot forgive, you divide the very church whose job is to represent the Savior who forgives everything. We can't do our job as missionaries of the Gospel if we can't even forgive people in our own house. We can't even say, I represent a Savior who no matter what you did, he loves you. No matter what you've gone through, his church is here for you. Except if you piss us off, then you're out. That doesn't work and it didn't work in the Corinthian church either. There was somebody who did something and then who got disciplined for it and Paul had to tell them, okay guys, we're really back. Pull back the punishment. Roll out the love for the reason that that person you disciplined, that man who's out on the outs, he needs to feel my love too. Or else, if you go back one slide, what was his definition there? Overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. Overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. And who caused that sorrow? Ultimately, the person, whatever this joker did to get disciplined by the entire church, they're in on it. But Paul's point here is that if we over discipline, we become the very means by which the enemy hurts believers, not helps them. Our job is to do exactly what Paul told the Corinthians to do. There comes a point where church discipline has to get wheeled back and the love, the overarching love of the body of Christ has to be our marching orders. Love has to be the uniform of the day. Love does discipline. Love does educate. Love does correct. Yeah! You should have been in my house. We had so much tough love in my house that my uncle got tired of taking off his belt. And he bought a piece of shoe leather to help teach me character development. Sometimes love is tough, but you know what? I never doubted for a moment that my uncle loved me. He had to teach me, and let's go ahead and be honest, I'm super hard headed, as most of you know by now, and I'm super ADHD, so teaching the hard headed ADHD kid lessons is rather difficult. I get that. But no matter how difficult a child, the family never throws them to the wolves. Here's what I want to close this series with. Forgiveness equals unity, and unforgiveness equals division. And our job is to represent the Savior who forgives, the Savior who loves. If you're here this morning for the first time and you've not been to Reedswood before, I represent a Savior who loves no matter what you did before you walked on our parking lot. It doesn't matter what your life was five years ago, three years ago, one year ago, one day ago, or one second ago. Jesus loves all day, every day. That's the marching orders for us as the Christian church, is to say that no matter what you did before you walked in this room, the Savior loves you regardless. That's our freedom. Zach, I don't care how many times you slap me in the face. I'm free to love you anyway. Slap me again, I'm going to hit you back. But I'm going to love you. The right hand of fellowship may come a little swift. Forgiveness is a tough topic, and for the last several weeks I know we've waded into it really deep. I know that we've busted through some barriers and we've brought up some really rough topics. It was never my intention to hurt you. It was never my intention to make you feel that severe emotional upset. But I'll tell you this, it was my intention to break through your hearts and get you to see that forgiveness is a lifestyle. Forgiveness is not an idea. It's not a concept. It's not just something we talk about in counseling sessions. Forgiveness is something we live. And if we are truly living forgiveness, and I'll say this because someone brought a point up in my message last week that I think is very valid. Forgiveness doesn't equal reconciliation. But I will say more often than not it leads to it. And it should. Forgiveness should never be a justification for not reconciling. There are certain circumstances in which reconciliation is impossible. If I have to forgive a family member who's already passed on and I'm still holding on bitterness from when they treated me as a child, there's no way for me to go to their grave, resurrect them, hug them, forgive them and put them back. That's impossible. But if you're holding on unforgiveness to somebody who's still breathing, then reconciliation is always an option. It's always possible. And it should be if we are truly representing the savior we say we represent.