This morning we are going to continue our Finding Forgiveness sermon series. Now if you have not been here for last week's message, that's okay. Each one of these messages do stand on their own, but I promise you they have a cumulative value. They have a cumulative value as they begin to build on these precepts and concepts of forgiveness. Last week we looked at, or first let me tell you what forgiveness is not. So first let's talk about what forgiveness is not. Forgiving isn't forgetting. Forgiving isn't excusing. Forgiving isn't approving. Forgiving is not getting even. Forgiving isn't reconciling. Forgiven isn't pretending. And forgiving isn't avoiding. Now, last week in the opening message from this series we answered the question, What is forgiveness? And we walked away with the definition. Forgiveness is being fully aware of a hurt or offense and choosing to forgive. Forgiveness is being fully aware of a hurt or an offense and choosing to forgive. Now if you missed that message you can find it at reedswood.com. I'm going to be, Mark, I promise I'm going to do a better job of getting those sermon audios posted sooner. This week we're going to ask a new question. Why should I forgive? Why should I forgive? See, Caitlin, forgiveness cannot be just a cerebral, intellectual idea. I could give you the definition of forgiveness. And you could understand it. And mentally you could break that definition down and you could understand each word in that definition. But you still might not be motivated to forgive someone. I think there's plenty of us who say, I know something but I still don't do it. I know that somehow the oil gets magically changed in my car when I go to Walmart. I don't know how to do that. I know that if water gets on the inside of an iPhone it's going to get ruined. But I don't necessarily always know how to fix it. There are a difference between having an understanding of a topic and having the motivation to do that topic. And so this morning what I would like to present to you are five biblical reasons that answer the question, Why should I forgive? Five reasons why should I forgive. Let's take a look at reason number one. First is this, why should you forgive? Because God has called us to forgive. This is from Colossians chapter 3 verse 13. This particular is the NCD or the New Century Version. This is Paul speaking to the Christians at Colossians. He says, bear with each other and forgive each other. Like I could stop, drop the mic. I could pretty much be done right there. Bear with each other and forgive each other. If someone does wrong to you, forgive that person because the Lord has forgiven you. Now one thing I would love to point out about this verse is the very first word, bear. That word in the original Greek has an intended application or meaning as if you are standing up straight while holding a heavy weight. It's not just, oh let me carry, it's not just, here, let me carry that for you. I'll put it under my arm and it's not difficult. That verb, to bear, literally means to strain or to fight or to lift and stand up straight while holding a heavy weight. So in the very first word that Paul uses here, I think he's allowing for the connotation that this is not always going to be easy. Sometimes forgiving people is challenging. Sometimes forgiving people requires forgiving yourself. You must be able to stand up straight underneath of the weight of that offense, underneath of the weight of that hurt. And it says bear with each other. Mark, there may be times that I am the weight that you have to carry. And there may be times that he is the weight that I have to carry. And there may be times that Caitlin is the weight that Marie has to bury. Bear, not bury, let's not bury, that's bad. We're going to edit that out. There may be times where Caitlin is the weight that Levi has to bear and to carry. I think we should allow ourselves to be human. Allow ourselves to realize that when we are hurt, when we are offended, worse. When we are hurt because someone we love is hurt or offended. I would say it's harder for me to forgive someone who hurts my kids than it is someone who hurts me. You can call me names, you can beat me, you can stab me, you can shoot me, you can do whatever you want, but leave my kids alone. Or Papa Bear gets really mad really fast. You know what I mean? Sometimes we have to be, and I just love the definition, stand up straight. Stand up straight. Endure that weight, lift it, and forgive each other. I think if you were to just take the first sentence, one thing we clearly see is Paul is expecting we need to forgive each other. Dusty, Paul is expecting that eventually I am going to rip you off. I'm going to tick you off, you're going to be mad. And you're going to have to choose to stand up straight and forgive. And Zach, there might be a point where you get me mad. I think Paul is allowing for the reality that even within the body of Christ we still may have some friction. We still may have some heat, some warmth. I always try to teach the young men when I talk about discipleship, you know the Bible says, Iron sharpens iron as one man sharpens another. Young men, they love that verse. Man, iron sharpens iron. I said, and do you know what else comes out of iron sharpening iron? Scratches and heat and sparks and parts that get shaved off and don't go back to the whole. It's a very violent process, iron sharpening iron. It's a lot of heat. But in the midst of all of that heat, the iron is perfected. It's not just chipped and banged and cut and dragged. Miss Ilona, it's honed. It's refined. It's sharpened. So as we deal with offenses, especially within the body of Christ, we've got to look at the second sentence here. If someone does you wrong, forgive that person because the Lord forgave you. That's why at the end of last week's message, what is forgiveness? Forgiveness is understanding it first comes from God. If you have accepted the Lord's forgiveness, then you have been forgiven of more than anyone could ever wrong you. It's impossible to accept the forgiveness of God and yet reject forgiving another human being. You just can't do it. I have been forgiven of so much by God that I have no choice but to forgive another human being. Now for those who may not have accepted Christ yet, you're going to look at me and say, but you don't know what this person did to me. You don't know how wrong they are. You don't know how much they hurt me. You don't know and you're right. You know what? I don't know. I don't. I will admit in my own human frailty, I'm only one human being, that I am ADHD. I forget a lot. If you don't believe me, ask my wife. It happens all the time. I'm not a perfect person and I know that. But thankfully, Zach, I have a perfect Savior. And even when I don't know, He knows. And even when I can't understand, He does. And even when it's beyond my ability to comprehend, it is not beyond His. So the first thing, why should you forgive? Because God has called you to forgive. Zach, let's take a look at the second one. Why should I forgive? Because it is the strongest reflection of Jesus Christ. From Matthew chapter 11, this is the New King James Version. It may sound very familiar to you. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. What is that from? Anybody? The Lord's Prayer. Now let's go to the 2.0 answer. What's the Lord's Prayer a part of? A much larger discourse that Jesus gave while talking on a very high part in the mountain. There be attitudes which are a subsection of the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus in Matthew chapter 5, chapter 6, chapter 7 is teaching the Sermon on the Mount. It is lifestyle Christianity in three chapters. If all you could do was study Matthew 5, 6, and 7, you would come out with an incredible understanding of Christian living. But this particular example, his disciples ask him how should we pray? And Jesus responds, well then pray like this. Jesus intentionally stops and gives a moment of instruction of prayer. We call it commonly the Lord's Prayer. Now in the middle of the Lord's Prayer, Jesus recognizes a few things. First, give us this day our daily bread. If you remember in the Old Testament after the story of Moses, after the exodus from Egypt, they wandered in the wilderness. And how did God choose to feed his children while they wandered? Manna. That's right, some of you said it, manna. God allowed for miraculous provision. But there was some rules that came with the manna, right? How many days of manna were they allowed to collect on the first six days of the week? One day, that's right, one day. They had to collect it every day. They had to collect it every day. What happens if they over-collected on the first six days of the week? It went bad. It went rotten. Overnight it went rotten. Why? I think because the Lord was trying to teach his people, I'm here for you every day. You don't just come on Sundays and get your filling. I'm your daily provider. When Jesus says, an example, give us this day our daily bread to an entirely Jewish audience in the middle of Judean Galilee, yeah, I'm pretty sure they knew the story. God is a miraculous provider who provides everything you need on a daily basis. Now it wasn't until the end on Passover, or on the Sabbath, that he allowed them to collect two days. And the reason for that is, is on the Sabbath they weren't allowed to work. Why? Because it's about worshiping him. See, the first six days of the week it's about understanding he's my daily provider, and on the seventh day of the week it's about understanding that I take one day to worship him for all he's done for me the past six. All of that cultural understanding would have been there for his audience there in Matthew 6. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Another translation may say, forgive us our sins as we forgive those who have sinned against us. Because God is your daily provider, you very well may need daily provision to continue working on forgiving someone. I have been there. I will testify to that. I have been there. There have been people who have hurt me so deeply that I couldn't forgive them in the single moment of prayer. I truly had to wrestle with it. I truly had to stay in the Lord's presence and go, Lord, I know that this bitterness that has entrenched itself in my heart is not of you, that it is wrong. And Lord, I want to be free of this. And I had to wrestle with it in prayer. And I had to not allow that bitterness to talk to my mind and give me thoughts or ideas. Or, you know, the constant, you play the scenario over in your head. Am I the only person that's ever done that? If somebody upsets you, what's the first thing you do? You replay the scenario in your head, you remember it. And you tell yourself, well, did I really hear him correctly? But you know what, Miss Hoffman, after a while, I'm repeating the story and just getting myself more and more mad. I'm just getting myself more and more angry. If I have accepted the forgiveness of God, I am required to forgive others. But look at the way he ends it. And lead us not into temptation. I do not think that the – and the reason I took all these sentences together is I do not think it is an accident these sentences are put together this way. Give us our daily bread, God's provision. Forgive us of our debts as we forgive our debtors. Seeing my forgiveness in light of God's forgiveness in my own life. And do not lead me into temptation. If I could but trust in God and forgive, there'd be a whole lot less temptation in my life. I find that a lot of my temptations to sin are based in the reality that I can't trust God enough. Or I am struggling to let go of something another human being has done to me. Which I should be doing if I am following God's example. And if I am truly to avoid temptation, then I can be delivered from the evil one. These are all the words of Christ. These are exactly His example. Reason number two, why do I believe that you need to let go and consciously make the choice to forgive? Because it is the strongest reflection of Christ. Let's take a look at number three. Because our relationship with the Father is affected. Because our relationship with the Father is affected. This comes from Luke chapter six verses 37 and 38. Those of you who are our Wednesday night crew, you should recognize this one. We just talked about it. Do not judge and you will not be judged. Do not condemn and you will not be condemned. Forgive and you will be forgiven. Give and it will be given to you. A good measure pressed down, shaken together and running over. Will be poured into your lap. For with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. Now on Wednesday we had a very good discussion about this verse. And if you read it wrong, you might end up in wrong theology. So let me show you what I mean. Do not judge and you will not be judged. If that sentence were stand alone all by itself and you did not have context, You might be tempted to believe that if you do not judge others, then God will not judge your sin. That is not correct. That is not what Luke is saying here. Just think about it. What is the one stop all forgiveness for sin? Jesus. Does my forgiveness of sin have anything to do with my forgiveness of Zach or of Pete or of Dusty when they hurt me? No. Jesus paid a once in a lifetime price for sin. So that do not judge and you will not be judged, that second judge cannot be the go to hell judgment. Because Frank, my go to hell judgment is based on Jesus, not on me. It is not based on my own actions, my own merits. Jesus loved us while we were yet sinners. I could go verse after verse after verse that shows that salvation is about Jesus and not about Bill. So I can't then say that God's eternal damnation judgment is based on my judging others. So what is it? This is where we have to get into the difference between God's judicial judgment. Anybody from Wednesday, what is the other one? His parental judgment. That is right. There is a difference between God's judicial judgment and his parental judgment. God's judicial judgment. That is God as the judge. That is the end of time. You stand before the great white throne. You either know Jesus or you don't. You are either smoking or non-smoking. End of eternity you are in. That is God's judicial judgment. But all throughout scripture, Old Testament included, the Lord wanted relationship with his children. We even say today things like, oh I feel really close to God today. Well, do you mean like physical proximity? No, I mean in my relationship. Those of you who are parents, maybe you can understand the idea. Sometimes you feel very close to your kids and sometimes you don't feel that you are as emotionally close to your children. Does that mean they ever stopped being your kids? No. Several of you are giggling. That is not a pointed statement. If you need to elbow your neighbor, you go ahead and do so. But that wasn't pointed at any one family. The reality is we can go to heaven because we know Jesus, but still not know him well. We can be a child of God and not close to him in relationship just like the prodigal son. The prodigal son never stopped being the son. When he came back to the dad, what did the dad say? My son who was lost is now found. He never stopped being the son, but their relationship was tarnished. Their relationship was put at a distance. When we say, do not judge or you will not be judged, we are not talking about God's judicial judgment. We are talking about his parental judgment, your closeness in relationship with the heavenly father. The next sentence, do not condemn and you will not be condemned. Again, it cannot be salvation because that would put my salvation in my hands. I'm ADHD. What if I forget? We're talking about God not... Honestly, if I put my salvation in my own hands, I'm not in good standing. That's not a good day if Bill has to trust in Bill for his own salvation. The whole point of the doctrine of in Christ alone is our salvation is free because of what he did. I then can't say my condemnation is on me if I'm trusting in Christ alone. Again, we have to see the difference between the judicial judgment of God and the parental judgment of God. If we continue to condemn others, we are continuing like the prodigal to put more and more distance in our relationship with God. Forgive and you will be forgiven. Again, it can't be eternal nature because that would put my forgiveness in my hands. That doesn't match the rest of the words of Scripture. We look at the parental... These first three sentences, what do I see here? Zach, when you offend me and I hold on to my offense and I give myself reasons for bitterness and judgment, while I am holding on to that, I am walking further and further away in my relationship with the Father. Because you know what I'm not doing? I'm not being like His Son who already forgave me. I am choosing the right to be offended. I am choosing the right to hold on to a grudge. I am choosing the right to hold on to pain and anger and bitterness. Do any of those words describe the beauty of Jesus? No. Pain and anger and bitterness and pride and arrogance are all the opposite of godly spirit born character. They are the opposite of the example of Jesus. So when we choose to judge, we are choosing to put distance between ourselves and God. When we are choosing to condemn someone else instead of forgive them, we are choosing to put distance between ourselves and God. When we are choosing to forgive, we are closing the distance between ourselves and God. Why? Because I would believe honestly you are stepping into the shoes of what God already did for us. When you choose to forgive someone even though they have not asked, even though they still in your own mind deserve your venom. But you know what? God forgave me when I was undeserving of His love. So I am therefore set free and permitted with grace to forgive others even though... Let's be honest. You might need to forgive someone who has already died. How do you get that person to come to you and ask for forgiveness? You can't. Therefore, forgiving them has to start with you and not them. You may be holding on to bitterness for someone who has passed on to the next life. There is never going to be that time where they come back to you and say, I am so sorry for what I did. Will you please forgive me? They don't have to ask. You get to forgive anyway. That is why this is so important. And then what it says here, given will be given to you, pressed down, shaken together. On Wednesday we talked about the fact that is a sack of grain. This example was very earthy. He was talking to people who grew and cut grain for a living. This example is a sack of grain. Mark, if you had a sack of grain and Bethy was the grain seller and she was a generous grain seller, if she was generous in the way she treated her customers, Bethy, you would fill Mark's grain sack and then you would shake it. Why? Because you would be letting the grain settle, getting all the air pockets out of it. You would let the grain settle, you would press it down, and then there would be more room at the top, and you would fill it again. And that is the example here of a sack of grain. The reason it is pressed down, the reason it is shaken together, the reason it is running over is the generosity of He who sells the grain. In my example it was Bethy selling to Mark. Scripturally, obviously we are talking about God to us. God's generosity goes so far, is that filling our sack the first time is never enough. He presses it down, He shakes it together, He makes sure that there are no empty spaces left, and then He blesses us again. You cannot exemplify that kind of character, the kind of character that presses down, shakes together, and fills and running over, and hold on to grudges and bitterness. You must choose one or the other. Let's take a look at the next point. Why should you forgive? Because forgiveness opens our lives to blessing. Look at 1 Peter 3, verse 9. This is the New Living Translation. Don't repay evil for evil. Peter, that's probably a sermon in itself. Let's just drop the mic and be out. Don't repay evil for evil, which I will willingly admit that is my number one temptation. When you wrong me, what is my first temptation? That's my first temptation. If you're going to wrong me, I'm going to wrong you back. I'm going to go down swinging. I told a story on Wednesday night. I don't know how we got to the story of my playground fight in fifth grade. I don't know how that happened, but I transferred to a new school in fifth grade, and of course, as a new kid, everybody has to size you up, and it's Jersey, so we do that with street fights. And so I'm on the playground, and I get surrounded by like 30 other fourth and fifth graders, all on the playground at the same time. And this one young boy comes out, this African American boy named Anthony, and keep in mind, there's nowhere for me to run. I'm in the middle of a full circle of people, and out walks this little boy, Anthony, and he's a little shorter than me, but he was also a little bit stronger than me. And he was the typical athlete, and I was the typical geek. He played football and basketball, and I played chess. So it didn't really look like a great matchup. I'll be honest, Miss Barbara didn't look too good for me. And in the midst of this big circle, he steps forward, and he goes, I'm going to beat you down now. And I looked at him, and I went, OK. And he said, what? I said, OK. I said, you're probably going to win this fight. I'm sure you are. You're bigger, you're stronger, you're the athlete. I'm not. Just understand you're not getting out of this circle without getting bloody if you hit me first. I'm going to go down, and I'm going to lose, but you're going down with me, because I'm that crazy. Believe it or not, he became my best friend after that moment. We ended up fighting. We ended up getting sent to the principal. We ended up getting suspended together. But he became my best friend because he said, Bill, I have never heard a crazier answer to that question. And apparently, that's how everybody welcomes you to the new school, is you get in the fight and find out who you are. Well, that's my natural man. You swing at me, I'm going to swing back. If you wrong me, I'm going to wrong back. If you make a turn in front of me without using a blinker, Jesus, I'm praying for you. And then you're going to hear my warrant. I want to repay evil for evil. Why? Because I was born into a lost world filled with sin, and sin's answer is always evil for evil. It's my nature. It's my nature. I automatically choose evil for evil because that's my nature. Is that my Lord's nature? Is that my Savior's nature? No. And that's why I have to choose to be big enough to put my own nature aside and don't pay re-evil for evil. Don't retaliate with insults when people insult you. I'm not good at that. Instead, I'm not. Instead, pay them back with a blessing. Now, I have to admit, okay, I'm not good at this. That does not mean it's not biblically true. Okay, Miss Nancy, let me admit. This is follow the Bible, not follow Bill Day. Because Bill doesn't always do this very well. But does it stop it from being the truth that we should all be striving for? No. It doesn't. You're walking through Walmart. I have a family member. She generally doesn't listen to my podcast. I have a sister-in-law, and I have two sisters-in-law, so you still have to guess which one. So it's kind of a game. I have a sister-in-law that if you are walking through Walmart and you cut her off with your shopping cart, or you say something to her, oh, Betty, it's on. She has got no problem with the head jiggling and the four snaps, and she will be in your grill faster than hotcakes on a griddle. She just loves to pick a fight. Now, she and I get along really well now. But when I first got into family, I was kind of a little taken back. You know, because I don't have siblings, okay? I grew up as an only child. I married into a family where my wife has two sisters. One is like 10 months close to her age, and the other is nine years younger. So I'm learning about all this sibling dynamic stuff, and my sister will get loud with anybody in the middle of Walmart. And I was like, whoa! I'm going to have to end the fight because my sister-in-law is about to start one. I don't know how. Like, I'm not brave enough to do that. I'll be honest with you. You swing at me, I'll swing back. But I'm not brave enough to pick a fight, because I don't want to lose a fight. You know, I don't want to pick a fight that I'm going to lose. But I can tell you honestly, when someone insults me, or worse, which happened to me just before we moved here, someone insulted my son. I got really upset. Most of you know my son is on the autism spectrum. There are certain things that are just not on his radar. Is that his fault? No. He is a wonderful child of God. He was built the way he was built, but he's built different than some people. And somebody used the R word and called my son retarded. And I wanted to come out of my skin. I've never felt rage like that in my life. Even, you know, I shared with you my father and everything. I've never been so angry when someone insulted my son that way. Thankfully, I was having a godly day, and so I just walked away. But I'll admit to you, I didn't do that. I couldn't in that moment bless that person. I was so overtaken with my own emotions. Now afterwards, after I got home, and my wife and I talked through the situation, I said, you know what, you're right. And then I prayed for that person. And I said, Lord, I pray that you would bless them with wisdom and understanding to hear how their words might feel to another family. But it took me a minute to get rid of that fire on the inside, calm that boiler down, and force my sin nature to obey the word of God. Now maybe I'm the only person in this room that has to do that. And if so, I'm so thankful that all of you all are perfect. But I know that I'm not perfect, so I just want to stick with my own perspective. Is that okay, Zach? I know I'm not perfect. When people insult me or my family, my first instance is not to pray blessings on them. My first inkling is generally the right hand of fellowship balled up in a ball. But this is what God – you can't get away from this. Miss Ilona, this is what God has called you to do. The next time I'm walking through a story, granted I don't think I'll run into that individual now that I live in Virginia, but I have a son who's on the autism spectrum for the rest of my life. I'm going to have to deal with the fact. And autism is not one of those things that you can see on the outside. You know, at least with my daughter, you may be able to see that her eyes don't line up correctly, and you might know, ooh, there's something different. If Micah's just being Micah, he's just being Micah. You can't see on the outside that he's different until you see that he's different. And I've got to deal with the fact that other adults don't understand, and they're not gracious and they're not kind. But I am not able to escape. This is what God has called you to do. Now thankfully, Caitlin, the verse doesn't end there. It doesn't just end with, Bill, get over yourself and your over-errrogant dadness because God has called you to forgive. There's something even better at the back end. And He will grant you His blessing. Why should you forgive? Because not only are you obeying the words of Scripture, not only is it your best reflection of Christ, not only is it bringing you closer in your relationship with God, but God Himself in His Word said He will bless you for repaying insults with blessing. Now, I want to point out something here. The word blessing, and I believe I get into it in your five-minute moment this week, the word blessing in the Greek has two different definitions. I know most of the time in our Americanized preacher culture, when you hear the word blessing, everybody hears the word money, right? A lot of the prosperity gospel, they want to tell you that every time the word blessing shows up in the Bible, it means money. And if you give to God, He will give to you. That's not exactly true. When we pray before a meal, what do we call it? Right? Does that mean that all of you are going to pay me money when you come over and eat food at my house? Because if so, I have nights open. No, it doesn't. When we say a blessing over our food, what are we doing? We are speaking. The primary definition of the word blessing in Greek means a verbal blessing. It means a verbal blessing pronounced over a person or an item or a thing, exactly like what we do when we pray before a meal. The secondary definition of the word blessing does mean a physical embersment of some kind. It doesn't always mean money. I can tell you that the Lord has blessed us sometimes with provision, but not money. Sometimes provision can come in some very strange ways. So when we see that God will give us His blessing, I don't want you to be drawn to the idea that if you forgive everyone who forgives you, you will be rich. I want to tell you that it's not a fair exegesis of this verse. What I want to tell you instead is this. The text here seems to be what? Verbal or monetary? The context of that verse right there. Verbal. And why would you, you're correct, but why? Because just a sentence earlier, we talked about insults, which are verbal, right? We talked about insults. Instead, pay them back with a blessing. If you read that in context and go, Caitlin, every time somebody insults you, you should give them a dollar. If you do, please see me after church. Instead, pay them back with a blessing. That is what God has called you to do, and He will grant you His blessing. I think if you just look at that verse, it is more reasonable to see the word blessing as a verbal blessing. Now, am I going to pin my pastoral hat on that one? No. A blessing could very well be from God as some form of monetary or provisional blessing. It can be. But definitely the blessing we are to give back to those who insult us is verbal. If you are struggling to forgive someone in your life, the best thing you can do is get on your knees and pray for them. It is super hard to hold on to a grudge while praying for their blessing. If you can find that person who deep down in your heart has hurt you, has barbed you, and it stings. I was speaking with a friend who said every time they see a message from this person, it hurts them. If you have that kind of response or reaction to someone, pray for them. And I don't just mean, dear God, let them see what they have done me wrong. That is not the kind of prayer I am talking about. I am talking about a true, heartfelt, honest prayer. God, I want you to bless them. I had to pray for this person who insulted my son, and it was tearful, I will tell you that. It was hard because they didn't hurt me. Now, truthfully, Ryan, they didn't hurt Micah. He didn't hear it. But I did, and it hurt me because I knew if he had hurt it, he would have been hurt. And so I was hurt very deeply. And I had to go home and had to put the big, bad bear back in his closet and say, No, I am not going to respond in anger. I am not going to respond in retribution. But then to, I mean, literally almost had to grab myself on the inside and say, You will obey. Now, pray for this person to be blessed. Put your ego aside. Put your anger aside. Put your sense of parental duty aside. And bless this person because that is what God's word has called you to do. Why should you forgive? Because of everything that is at stake. You can go ahead and take the title graphics. What's next, right? Oh, I've got one more. Great. Give me another point. I was totally about to wrap it up. Yes, that's a great point. Let's talk about that. Why should you forgive? Because God is ready to forgive. I was about to transition to that. I forgot it was in my point. If we say we have no sin, you lying. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. It's a powerful verse. And the reason that I included this verse in this series is for one simple fact. If none of us are perfect, which is a way you can interpret the beginning of that, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. Or I'll say it this way. If you're here this morning and you feel like that you do not struggle with any sort of sin, you have a pride issue. Your sin is pride. And possibly some after that. But your big sin is pride. If you are unwilling to accept the reality that you are also a sinner, then not only are you deceiving yourself, but the truth of God's Word is not in your heart. Salvation starts at the moment that I realize I'm a sinner and I can't help myself back to God. That's where salvation begins. But then if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just. Justice is one of those things that tempts us to not forgive. Because of, I want to see payback. Because what if they get away with it? We'll talk about barriers to forgiveness next week. But that's judging. Justice, God's justice, is different from man's justice. This says here, He is faithful and just. Kyle, that means it is God who is the definition of faithful and just. And He will forgive our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You ever thought about the reality that when Jesus died on the cross, He died to forgive all of your sins. That means past, present, and future. The moment of salvation, all the sins you can and will ever commit in your life have been wiped clean. We don't have to go back to the cross and like double dose down on the salvation that comes from Him. It's okay, He can totally laugh. It's great. I love the fact that I'm talking about Jesus and the baby thinks it's great. At that moment on the cross, Jesus forgave all of my sins. Josh, even the ones I haven't committed yet. That's the definition of God's faithfulness. Can you truly wrap your brain around that? I have to admit, no. God forgave me of all of my sins, past, present, and future. But when you accept the reality of God's forgiveness, I can tell you one thing for sure. You are freed of all guilt. You are freed of all punishment. And you are freed to forgive of all guilt and all punishment. Because I've been forgiven of sins I haven't even committed yet. Will I stumble and fall? Yes. I'm a human being, born into a fallen world, only saved by the grace of God. I will fall. I will fail. And thankfully my brothers will be there to pick me up and dust me off and say, Great job Bill, let's walk one more mile. And if you can accept that reality, that your sins are forgiven past and present and future, that means that any offense that may happen to you between now and the end of your life, you are required to forgive. Because God already forgave all of mine. You may be sitting here this morning and you've never really thought about the fact that Jesus died to forgive all of your sins. There are some people who think, well, Jesus only forgives sins when I ask for them to be forgiven. He's capable of forgiving all of my sins, but it's like I have to pull out my Jesus Amex and like swipe it on the machine to make sure that all of my sins are forgiven. Do you know the problem with that soteriology, the problem with that thought about forgiveness? What if you forgot one? What if the ADHD guy, definitely, forgot one? Nicole, what if I forgot one sin that I committed ten years ago? And I'm going to get all the way to heaven and I forgot to charge that one sin to my sin credit card? Do I want to hang my salvation on my ability to remember? Those of you who know me know that's a bad idea. That's a bad idea. That's a bad idea. No. I'm here to tell you this morning that if you accept the forgiveness of Christ, it's past and present and future. All of your sins are wiped clean in the grace of God. Does that mean that you're free to sin? No. Paul addressed that. Shall we go on sinning? Absolutely not. It means you are freed from the bondage of that sin. You are freed from the tyranny of that guilt. And you are free to love as God loves us. Why should you forgive? Because when you get the glory of the cross, our own miniscule arguments and hurts and offenses, they literally fade in the glory of God's grace, in the glory of the cross. Because as we stand here today, God is still waiting, still hands outstretched, still ready to forgive you. And if He is waiting to forgive you, what right do we have to not forgive others? Why should you forgive? Because it affects the closeness in your relationship with God. Because it opens your life up to blessing. Because the Word of God has called you to. And because as we sit here right now, God is ready to forgive you if you would but ask. So that's my question today. Have you accepted the full and total forgiveness of Jesus? Past, present, and future. Are you living a life in which you know you are forgiven, and your only challenge is thus to strive towards the glory of God?