This morning we embark on a different kind of adventure. Over the past few weeks and months, we've done a lot of what I would call cerebral or intellectual studying of the Bible. We learned a lot of really cool facts about history and geography. This is not that kind of series. Every now and then, as the pastor and the person who's responsible to teach, I don't just need to engage you intellectually in your faith, but we need to engage emotionally in our faith. Jesus died on the cross not just to save my mind, but to save all of me. And this particular series comes with a disclaimer. I would like to give you a warning, so to speak, as we venture into this series over the next few weeks. Zach, I may say something in the next few weeks that really upsets you. And if that's the case, I'm blanket apologizing now for it. And the reason is this. I don't want you just to learn about God's Word. I want you to be transformed by it. And every now and then, we've got to look at some really hard truths, some deep truths, that drive all the way down to the deep ground of our heart and plant new seeds of faith that can grow. And that's what this kind of series is. Finding forgiveness is not about finding the forgiveness that Jesus died to bring us. Finding forgiveness is about forgiving other people when they hurt us. And I don't want to assume I'm the only person in this room that I've had someone in my life that I really struggled to forgive. I had someone in my life who wronged me or wronged someone that I love. That's even harder. Wronged someone that I loved. And I really felt justified in holding onto that grudge and not wanting to let go. That's what this series is about. Over the next few weeks, we're going to explore the questions, what is forgiveness? How do I forgive? Why should I forgive? What are the barriers to forgiveness? Things that will hold me back from being able to forgive others? How do I forgive others? And ultimately, how do I forgive? So, this morning's message is entitled, Finding Forgiveness, What Is Forgiveness? Before we get into how do we do it, before we get into what stops us from doing it, we need to first talk about what is forgiveness? And before I begin with what is forgiveness, let me first tell you what it's not. So let's take a look at a few things that forgiving is not. Has any of you ever heard the term, forgive and forget? Forgiveness is not forgetting. In fact, forgiveness requires quite the opposite. Forgiving is not forgetting. Forgiving is not excusing what someone did as being okay. Forgiving is not approving of something. Forgiving is not getting even. Forgiving is not reconciling. I know so many people that make this mistake. What if, and this is a hypothetical, this is not meant at any one person or my own life, what if the person that I need to forgive is my grandfather because of the way he treated me as a child, but my grandfather passed away a few years ago. It's impossible to reconcile with someone after they have transitioned to the next life. Therefore, forgiveness cannot require reconciliation. Forgiving is not pretending it's okay when it's still really not on the inside. And forgiving is not avoiding the issue. So in recap, forgiving is not forgetting, excusing, approving, getting even, reconciling, pretending, or avoiding. With that as our base, here's my first point this morning. Forgiving is being aware and choosing to forgive. And this is exactly why I want to say forgiving is not forgetting. Forgiveness, true, God-exampled, biblical Christian forgiveness, is not merely a matter of forgetting it happened or pushing it to the back of your mind. It is being aware and still choosing to forgive. Let's take a look at Luke chapter 23, 34. This is from the Holman Christian Standard Bible. And Jesus says, Father, forgive them because they don't know what they are doing. One of the famous things that Jesus said while he was hanging on the cross, while he was being crucified, he looks down at the Roman soldiers who are gambling over his clothing. He looks down at the crowd that is jeering at him. If you are really the Son of God, pull yourself off that cross and take us with you. He healed others. Physician, heal yourself. While a crowd of people is mocking and jeering him on the cross in excruciating agony, Jesus takes a moment to pray for them. Take a look at what he says. The very first word in this sentence, Father. Not only, and this is what I would argue, here's a little side note. I would argue the best litmus test if you have forgiven somebody is to pray for their blessing. If you can't openly pray for someone to be blessed, you still have a forgiveness problem. I told you this was going to get tough. Last couple of weeks we have been taxiing around. This week it's seat backs and tray tables and they are upright in locked position. It's time for takeoff. We have got to talk about the hard stuff too. I can't just teach you good history and not challenge your lifestyle. If you can't openly pray for someone to be blessed, you probably have a forgiveness issue. Jesus says, Father, forgive them. Not only did Jesus know and fully aware of what they were doing was wrong, but he had already let it go so much so that he prayed to his Father to forgive the sins they were committing as they were committing them against him. Forgiveness requires being aware and choosing to forgive. Father, forgive them. And then he even goes further because they don't know what they are doing. Jesus was unwilling to be offended at this, but he recognized the reality that the people who were doing these things to him were not even aware of the spiritual consequences. There may be someone in your life, I know there has been in mine, who did something to me that they weren't aware that it upset me. To them they had no idea that what they did at that one moment in that instance at that age had deeply hurt me. They were so unaware of it that they were just going about their daily business, thought that we were fine, thought that we were still friends, and it was eating me up on the inside. And they were completely unaware. Jesus recognizes the reality that there are people in our life who we may have to forgive who are not aware they have hurt us. They may not be aware of the long-lasting effects. Now some people, I have had people in my life who hurt me intentionally. Yeah, they were aware that it hurt because they did it on purpose. I get that. But there are some times, and why did I choose this series now? A few reasons. Number one, I've given you, for the last couple of months we've done really good learning mentally. I also have to challenge you emotionally and spiritually if we're going to grow as a family. But number two, I really believe, and this is not really for my sermon, this is just me, I really believe that learning to live a life of godly forgiveness is the single greatest key to unlocking and enjoying your faith day to day. Living a life of godly forgiveness is the greatest thing that we could teach anyone to do while they're following Christ. But the first thing I want you to understand about forgiveness is forgiving is being aware of an offense, being aware of a hurt. Jesus is so aware of it that he even understands the consequences of that offense. And yet in the midst of being aware of it, choosing to forgive and choosing to see that person prayed for and blessed. That's where forgiveness starts. Here's my next point. And this one's hard. I know it's hard. I told you seatbacks and tray tables up. Forgiving is releasing all feelings of bitterness and hurt. If I sit down and talk to you about something and you say, oh no, no, no, I've forgiven them but I still really don't like them, then you really haven't. If you need to hold on to the bitterness, if you need to hold on to the anger, if you need to hold on to those hurt emotions, then you haven't forgiven. Now, I will get into it in a minute. Does that mean I'm going to let them do it again? No. If you steal my car, I'm going to forgive you. I'm not going to loan you my car keys because I have no reason to believe you'll bring it back. I'm not talking about future action. I'm talking about you. And I don't remember if it was Shakespeare or not, but somebody in literary history said that not forgiving someone, holding on to unforgiveness, Brian, is like drinking poison a little bit every day, but hoping that it will hurt the other person. Unforgiveness, not forgiving someone, it's like drinking poison every day, expecting it to hurt the other person. The only person who is brought down and hurt by unforgiveness is the person holding it, not the object of it. You can hold on to unforgiveness for years after someone has hurt you, and they are unaware, they are oblivious. So that unforgiveness is not hurting the object of the unforgiveness. It's hurting the person who carries it. It's like opening every day and pouring a little bit of hemlock in your coffee, going, I'm going to hurt them today. Do you see how silly that seems? You would never intentionally drink poison to hurt someone else. That is exactly what this is. Look at this. Paul in 1 Corinthians 13, 4 and 5, this is from the New International Version. Everybody loves this. Love is patient. Love is kind. This is a very typical verse that you see in wedding ceremonies, right? You stand up in front of the altar. Love is patient. Love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast. It does not proud. It does not dishonor others. It is not self-seeking. It is not easily angered. It keeps no record of wrongs. You can't get out of Paul's description. I know everyone wants to go, love is patient, love is kind, and forget the rest of it. You don't get one without the other. Now, Zach, look at this. Do you notice the first sentence? Love is patient. Love is kind. Those are the only two monikers that Paul gives us in the affirmative or in the positive for what love is. The rest of this whole section is what love is not. Love is patient. Love is kind. Love is not, or love does not envy. It does not boast. It is not proud. It does not dishonor others. It is not self-seeking. It is not easily angered. It does not, or keeps no records of wrongs. Seven things that love doesn't do, but only two that describes how we should love. Why? Because Paul, through the Holy Spirit, knew the problem of the human condition is we want to define love on our own terms. We have a huge cultural battle about that right now. We want to define love the way we want to because it is my life. No. If God is the ultimate source and example of love, who are you to rewrite the text? Who are we as human beings to rewrite the value of love? Love is patient. Love is kind. Okay, I can do that most of the time. I can be patient, and I can be kind as long as I'm patient. But if I'm not patient, I'm probably not going to be very kind. And then he gives me a list of these things that I'm not allowed to be. I can't envy. I can't boast. I'm not proud. I don't dishonor others. Everyone's sort of okay with most of these. Until you get down to the very last part of that last sentence, it keeps no record of wrongs. You cannot tell me that you have forgiven someone if you are still holding on to the stamp collection of their offenses. Anybody ever heard the term stamp collector? I had my mentor, the first associate pastor I've ever worked for, most godly man in the world. His name is Rick. He will eventually come and visit. He has a little RV. He's just going to literally drive his RV in the parking lot and come to church. He used to say this all the time. People who get offended and stay offended are like stamp collectors. They pick up an offense from this person, and they put it on page one. And then they'll pick up an offense from this person, and they'll put it on page two. They'll pick up an offense from this person, and put it on page three. Then when they go back to person one, because they're already offended, they'll get offended more easily, and they'll start filling up page one with offenses. And then when they come back to page two, I've already been offended twice by this person. So now everything they say is offensive. And before you know it, page after page after page after page fills up with all of these stamps, these symbols of offense. And then the moment you say something wrong to them, what do they do? They grab that book and go open it up, and they start yelling at you about all the stamps that they've collected over the years. Why? Because they didn't get the basic fact that forgiving means you are no longer allowed to be angry. Forgiving means you are no longer allowed to be bitter. Forgiving means you are no longer allowed to be cynical. Now I'm really going to step on somebody's toes. In order to forgive, you must release all feelings of bitterness and hurt. Because you could say you're patient, you could say you're kind, you could possibly make some justification for every one of these things. But you can't make it to the end of that last sentence and hold a grudge. In order to forgive, you must let go. Let's take a look at point three. This is basically related to point two. Forgiving means you must release the authority to get revenge. Forgiving is refusing to punish. Psalm 103 verse 12. This is from the New Century version. He has taken our sins away as far as the east from the west. I love this verse. This particular part of the book of Psalms was written by King David. So this is a Psalm of David. So keep in mind when David says the word he, who is he referring to? Jehovah. He's referring to God the Father, Almighty God. He has taken, see they get it, He has taken our sins away from us as far as the east is from the west. Now this is Old Testament. David does not know of the Savior. Now he may, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, have an idea of the Jewish Messiah. Absolutely. But he doesn't know the person of Jesus exactly. There's no way that David knows the things Jesus said in the Gospels, unless the Holy Spirit specifically revealed him to it. But I love this analogy here that the Lord has separated our sins from us as far as the east is from the west. Notice he didn't say the north is from the south. Why does he choose east and west? Think about it. Old Testament, they're a very agrarian culture. What's the single largest entity in our solar system that travels from east to west? The sun. Somebody said it, the sun. He spends his days out in the field with the sheep. What is he keenly aware of? The rising of the sun and the setting of the sun. And the next day, the rising of the sun again and the setting of the sun again. Like clockwork, he is keenly aware that God in his infinite power is in complete control of the rising and the setting of the sun. And he goes from east to west. Now, in our modern day understanding of the globe, there is a physical north pole. Whether you want to go with geographic north or whether you want to go with magnetic north, there is an actual place you can go. Now, I have personally never been there because I'm not that big a fan of the cold. So I've never been there to see if the actual red and white pole is like hanging right outside of Santa's house. But I do know that there's an actual north pole and there's an actual south pole. But there's no east pole and there's no west pole. You can continually travel east and west in an infinite nature. Whereas there is a physical north and a physical south. If the Lord would have merely separated me from my sins as far as I am from the north, it would have been measurable. It would have been quantifiable. But if I continue moving east and my sins continue traveling west, we would eventually just continue separating and separating and separating, just like the sun. David is sitting there in the field with his sheep as he's writing some of these Psalms. And he's just watching the vastness of God. And east to west in an Old Testament allegory, that means infinite. When he says as far as the east is from the west, he can't see how that way wraps around to be that way. Now we can see it on a globe, but there's no concept in the Old Testament that they eventually come back around again. So when he says east from the west, he's looking at just distance going both ways. That is how you have to feel about wanting to punish someone when they hurt you. Or worse, when they hurt someone you love. And I will go on record saying right now, I don't know that I'm really good at that. I will admit this sermon is as much for me as it is for everybody else. If you hurt my kids, you are going to cross a 300-pound fat man with anger issues. I kid you not. I have a hard time when someone crosses my children. We recently this week took Emily to a new eye doctor because when we went to the first eye doctor, my wife and I both left the eye doctor's office not comfortable with him being the person treating my daughter. And it's not because he didn't have a bunch of degrees, and it's not because he didn't work in a schwenky office or probably have a very, very expensive billable hour. It's because he wasn't nice. His bedside manner, the way in which he talked about treating my daughter, did not make me feel like I wanted to breathe the same air as this human being ever again. My wife and I both left that room incredibly upset that this man would call himself a pediatric ophthalmologist with how he was just very rough-handed with Emily. And, I mean, that's my little girl. Don't rough-hand her. I'm going to rough-hand you. And so we left. Finally this week we met another doctor, the polar opposite. He was gentle. He was loving. He was kind. His office was pre-stocked with lollipops and stickers and small little stuff. He knew he was treating kids, and he was ready for it. And I walked out of that office so comfortable that this is the man that's going to have to do Emily's next eye surgery. She'll probably need at least two or three more eye surgeries in her lifetime. But I felt comfortable with this man. And I was able to, at least as much as I think I am, get over being angry at this other guy. And not one...I truly, I thought, I'm going to go on Yelp. I'm going to give this guy the worst Yelp review of people's life. And I really thought about, but what would that have been? It would have been retribution. It would have been me being upset, being offended, because I didn't like the way he treated my little girl. So I'm going to trash you on Google+, Facebook, and Yelp, and Twitter, and Instagram, and Tumblr, and every other place I can think of. Let the world know that I think you're a bad doctor. All because I was angry. Not because he actually probably, he's probably a very fine doctor. I did not like the way he treated my daughter. I have to let go of the desire to punish someone before I can truly say that I have accepted the reality that I'm going to forgive them. Take a look at point four. This one is a little more challenging. Forgiving is choosing not to remember. Now some of you are thinking to yourself, Bill, we started out the sermon by saying that forgiveness is not forgetting. And it's not. Forgiving is choosing not to remember. And there's a giant theological difference between forgetting and choosing not to remember. Take a look at Isaiah 43 in the ESV. I will not remember your sins. Okay, first question. Does God know everything? Yes. God is omniscient. He knows everything. Question. Is God able to forget? No, weren't a real big... I would say no. I think you're right. How can you on one hand say that God knows all and is omniscient and on the second hand say that he forgets? Those two things are not compatible with one another. God's omniscience cancels out his ability to forget. So when God says, I will not remember your sins, we are not talking about a forgetful God. I don't want to believe in a forgetful God. Mr. Charles, what happens if you forget that I accepted Jesus? What happens if he forgets that he forgave me? I don't want to be hung out to dry because I believe in a God who forgets. No, I believe in a God who can remember and actively choose not to recall it. This not remember here is exactly the same thing you would think. I love Law and Order. I love Law and Order. I love crime dramas on TV. Have you ever either been in court, hopefully not being prosecuted? If you are, we can pray about that. But hopefully you've maybe seen a Law and Order episode where the attorney, he gets energized and he says something over the line. And what does the judge say? He pounds the gavel and he says, jury, please disregard. Please disregard blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Right? What is the judge telling the jury? You're not allowed to remember that at your time of deliberation. You're not allowed to use that at the time of deliberation. Now does that mean that the judge forcibly caused the jury's minds to forget what that attorney said? No. He's giving instruction that at the time of deliberation you are not permitted or allowed to remember that and bring it up for discussion. This is what God says when he says, I will not remember your sins. When you have accepted Christ as your Savior, when his blood has washed and forgiven you of your sins, it's not that God doesn't know about your sins, it's that he chooses not to prosecute them at the given time. You see that? Now that is our example of forgiveness. I can totally know, remember, recite, and even possibly draw out for you the circumstances by which I was offended. But Pete, I don't have the right to bring it up. I don't have the right to reproduce it at trial. Because if God in his omniscience, who never forgets a thing, has already selected to be the example of forgiveness by knowingly being aware of an offense and choosing not to remember it at the given time, then that is the example of forgiveness for us. And I know that's a really high bar. That's why I said get ready for takeoff. This is not an easy thing to hear, but it's something that we all really need to live in. I will tell you this, if I say nothing else this morning but this one verse, I guarantee you that verse will change your life. I guarantee you if you get this in your brain that you can remember someone offended you and be consciously choosing not to prosecute that offense, not to allow it to make you angry, not to take over you. Has anybody ever been in a situation of somebody really ticked you off and for some reason that's all you can think about? You ever been there? You don't have to raise your hands. I'm not trying to call anybody out. I raised my hand to admit to it myself. Sometimes you get offended and like man for days you replay that conversation in your mind. And what are you really doing? You're really just stoking the coals of your own anger. You are making yourself feel better by justifying being angry instead of doing what God did, which was let it go. Call up Frozen, listen to the song, let it go. Just go get Disney. Disney makes everything better. I promise. Disney and cookies. That's why I'm this big. Disney and cookies makes for a good day. You can choose to remember something, but that does not mean you have the right to prosecute that memory. If you call yourself a Christian, if you say that you believe in a forgiving God, then what right do you have to accept that level of forgiveness from Him but prosecute your own selfish level of forgiveness to someone else? That's hypocritical. That's pharisectical. To accept that kind of forgiveness, a choosing of not to prosecute a memory, and yet then justifying your own self, being angry enough to prosecute your own offense. You can't take God's forgiveness and dole out man's judgment. That's not the way the godly lifestyle, I told you it's going to be rough. I told you to put your big girl pants on, your big boy pants on, because here we go. You cannot call yourself an example of a godly person and hold and carry a grudge. Because that God who loves you did that. That God who loves you forgave it while still being conscious of the memory. Again, God is not a forgetful God. I do not want to believe that Jehovah God is ever forgetful. I pray that He remembers everything, including my moment of salvation. That even in my greatest mistakes, even in my darkest hours of sin, Christ died to forgive me, and that's the best memory I can have. I don't want God to forget that in my life. But that means if I accept that totality of forgiveness, I am no longer authorized to dole out my own judgment when I choose to remember something that someone offended me. Zach, let's take it home. So how do you do this? I realize I am laying out a very deep, big picture of living a lifestyle of forgiveness. And some of you are sitting going, but Bill, you just don't know. Bill, you just don't know. You sit up there and you talk like this is easy. No, it's not. Don't think for one instance, this entire week preparing for this message is the hardest week I've had since I moved here. I have been distracted. I have been upset. I have been angry. I have been tearful. Why? Because you needed to hear this, and the enemy was going to do anything in his power. My wife is sick. My children got sick. Like, I kid you not, the enemy threw everything but the kitchen sink at me to get me to not be ready to say this. Because if you accept this teaching, if you can begin to live a life that exemplifies the kind of love that God has given us, you become floodlights of God's love in your family. And you'd be amazed at how much people are drawn to people who live a life of forgiveness. You become the very magnet by which evangelism happens, and it happens just by accident. But no, I did not stumble into this very easily. I took a long time, and I'll give you one. My mother, for those of you who don't know my story, put on your connection card. You want to meet with me, we'll get coffee, and I'll give you the long version. But the short version is, my mother died when I was nine years old of cancer. She was diagnosed terminally ill very shortly after my birth, and she thought, I don't have a single memory of my mother that does not involve hospitals. Because all of my childhood, that's where I got to see her. And I have one memory of when she came home to my grandmother's house, basically because the doctor said, we can't do anything else, so at least you get to be home with your family. And I'm playing Go Fish on this brown and green hassock that was in the back of my grandmother's house. The only memories I have of my mother. Shortly after my mother died, my father decided he did not want me anymore. And he gave me to my aunt and uncle, and he deuced out of my life, literally until I got married. I would send my father invitations. I mean, I grew up in chorus. I'd send him to chorus concerts. I took orchestra. I took band. I went to military school. I went to performing arts school. And my father never showed for a single moment of my life. You want to talk about the biggest forgiveness problem I had? And you know what, Mark, I'll tell you the darn truth. You know when it got harder? When I had Micah. I'm standing there in the hospital, and I'm holding my own child. I'm holding my son. And all of these feelings that I'd never felt before, because I'd never been a parent, came flooding over me. And then all of that rage from when I was ten came back. Because I was like, how can you feel the way I'm feeling right now and just walk away from someone's life? And especially at nine, right as I'm going through puberty, trying to learn how to be a man, trying to learn what it means, and I had a lot of stumbles along the way. That was the biggest forgiveness challenge of my life. Now, forgiveness does not mean reconciliation. I said that in the beginning. I love my father as much as Scripture calls me to love him and honor him, and we text a little bit. But my aunt and uncle, the ones that you all have met, the ones who helped move me here, they're grandma and grandpa. They're the people my children know as their grandmother and their grandfather. Why? Because they earned it. They took me in when literally my family left me on a doorstep. They raised me. They sent me to school. They kept me in church. They paid for me to go to military school. They took me for my audition for performing arts school. My parents, my aunt and uncle, did the work of raising me right, and they reap the reward of that, that my children call my aunt and uncle grandma and grandpa. They call my father kapuna, which is the Hawaiian word for grandfather. So he gets the honor of being addressed that way, but he has never once wanted to come and meet my children. He's never once wanted to come and see them. He sends them money at Christmas, and that's the extent of the relationship that he wants. And I live with it every day. Would I feel very justified, Don, in going back down that hole of anger and bitterness? Yeah. I absolutely feel that I would be justified. But I can't look at it truth-like, but God demonstrates His own love toward us that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. While we were still guilty, while we were still wrong, while we were still deserving of eternal judgment, God crucified His own Son. How do you reach down deep and find the courage to forgive when all you want to do is punch someone's teeth in? You find it in Christ, not in yourself. If you have someone in your life or someone in your heart, and it can be someone who's already passed, if you have someone who's already passed on, you can't physically go to them and say, Here, let's get a coffee and let's talk about it. I want to forgive you and I want to apologize because they've already passed. You're holding on to bitterness that can never be resolved except in Christ. How do you live a life of ultimate forgiveness? It starts by accepting ultimate forgiveness of yourself and of your own actions. It starts at the foot of the cross saying, Lord, I recognize I am not enough. When you can see yourself in the shadow of the cross and recognize your own failures, I don't need to give my father retribution for the way he treated me. Because the life that the Lord has given me now is far beyond anything. Realistically, if I was still living with my father, I'd be in jail on drugs or dead. Because my father worked two jobs. I was that classic latchkey kid. I grew up on the block in Jersey. I absolutely would have started dealing drugs and got into a gang. And probably not made it to this. Never would have met my wife. Never would have had the amazing children that I have. But when you get scope locked, when you get focused on only the bitterness, on only the anger, on only that resentment, you can't pull back and see all of the blessings that God has given you in your life. You rob yourself of your own blessings by being focused on unforgiveness. That's what I want to ask you this morning. Have you actually forgiven whoever that is? And this is what I believe. The entire time I've been up here, I did not look at my notes. Because I just felt like this is one of those mornings where the Holy Spirit wants me to rip it off the top. Because I ended up saying something that meant something to somebody that I don't know about. So let me ask you the really, the five-on-one question for today. What are you holding on to? What grudges have you been unwilling to let go of? What areas of your life are you holding on to unforgiveness because you mistakenly feel justified in sitting in a Christian church and worshiping a forgiving God and walking back out those doors and not forgiving other people? That is unacceptable for godly living. And I'll stand here as somebody who has walked through the tumultuous fire of this challenge and tell you it's better on the other side. But you're going to have to walk it yourself. Now, stand here and plead and scream at you to join me over here on the side that just forgives no matter what. Wes, is it easy? No. Is it blessed? Absolutely. Absolutely. So do me a favor and pull out your connection card. Earlier in the service, I asked you to fill out the front of the card. This morning I want to ask you two simple questions. The first is this. You cannot truly experience total forgiveness in life if you have not accepted forgiveness from Jesus first. That is a prerequisite. And why do I say that? Because once you accept Jesus as your Savior and the Holy Spirit indwells within you, you are empowered to live beyond your physical means. I have tons of reason to be angry and resent my Father. And yes, it comes up a lot now that I have children. Now that I'm experiencing all of these things for the first time with my children, it's a whole other dip through the pond all over again. And I haven't reached the age where my Father left me yet. That's going to be a whole other crisis for me when Micah reaches age nine and I get to see him turn ten and know that I'm now experiencing things my Father did not because he chose to give me away. I'm going to go through all of that, but Mark, I'm ready for it because I don't walk alone. I walk with the Savior on one side and the Spirit within me. And when I fail, they carry.