We are going to begin a brand new series this morning entitled, The End of Days. What the Bible says about the end of the world. No, you don't have to read it like that, that's just for dramatization. The end of the world is a really big topic. It's in books, it's in movies, it's all kinds of people making claims and different things. I believe that the Word of God is true, and I believe what the Bible says is going to happen. And so what I want to do during this series is introduce you in a very, I mean, we're going to take six weeks, so Bill, it's going to be basic, but it's going to have some details on the basics. I want to introduce you to what the Bible says is going to happen at the end of the world. Now this morning's message is entitled, The End of Days, the Promises. The End of Days, the Promises. And I want you to understand that the book of Revelation does not take place in a vacuum. It's not one book at the end of the Bible that you can just take off and interpret all by itself and not use the rest of Scripture to understand what it says. The book of Revelation, like many passages in Daniel and other Old Testament passages, are what we call Apocalypse. So they're talking about the end of the world. A lot of times they are describing things that some people take to be overly allegorical. And so what I want to try to show you is a proper method for interpreting the events that happen in Revelation. Which brings me to our key thought that we will have during this entire series. And the key thought is, the end of the world is a series of events. The end of the world is a series of events. I know a lot of popular apocalyptic movies. They see the end of the world as a singular 12-hour cataclysmic, catastrophic event. And we go, Mark, from life as normal to life as over in less than a day. Whether it be the comet hitting the earth or the day after tomorrow, the super winter storm that froze the entire northern hemisphere. We get this idea, Mr. Zach, that it's all over in a blink of an eye. That's not what the Bible teaches. That's not what the book of Revelation shows about the end of the world. So first I want to show you where we're going to go throughout this series. This morning we're talking about the promises, and I'll explain that in a minute. Then next Sunday we're going to talk about the rapture. The Sunday after the tribulation. The Sunday after the earthly kingdom. Then final judgment. And finally the eternal kingdom. It's going to take us six weeks to journey through these series of events that take place. This series of events takes place in more than a thousand year span of time. So there's a lot of time that happens. And if we're not paying attention, we could be quick to misinterpret as one on top of the other. I will also go ahead and say up front, there are different theological interpretations of Revelation. There are, for those of you who may be more familiar, there are arguments about the rapture. Is it pre-tribulation? Is it mid-tribulation? Is it post-tribulation? There's the preterist versus the acurist. And I appreciate all of my friends who have doctrinal disagreements. This is a highly debated topic. I'm going to try to give you the best, most literal interpretation of how it happens. And then we can absolutely within that framework have room for discussion and for disagreement. I absolutely believe that. Unity does not mean uniformity. Carly believes that. See what I'm saying? So unity does not mean uniformity. Thank you, sweetheart. I'm so happy that you're here today. So this morning we're going to talk about the promises. Now, how many people like doing puzzles? Do I have any puzzle people? Okay. Ms. Andrea, your hand was first to go up, so that means you get picked on first. What was the last puzzle you put together? And it was a two-dimensional puzzle, right? Not like one of those big ones. And when you put a two-dimensional puzzle together, what's the first thing you look for? The corner pieces and then the edges. And why do you do that? To outline it. To outline it? But why not just, Jason, why not just pick any piece out of the box and start building the puzzle around that? It would be nonsense. Well, it wouldn't be nonsense. I mean, if you were like incredibly intelligent, I'm sure you could do it. But there's a point to doing it Andrea's way and Kim's way. Not just that they're super OCD with their details, but there's an achievement that happens. Just a little bit. There's an achievement that happens when you do the edges first, right? I'm going to find the corner pieces. I'm then going to connect all of the edges. Why? Because then I have a framework, right? If I do the edges first, I then have established my boundaries. I have a framework for which to work on the rest of the inside of the puzzle. My parents love puzzles. In fact, those of you who don't know me, my parents live in southeastern Florida, just outside of West Palm Beach. Hurricane Irma went through and they had about 36 hours in their home with no power. It also happened to be the day of my parents' anniversary. And so my mom snapped a picture and put it on Facebook of this incredibly candlelit peanut butter and jelly dinner that my parents had to celebrate their anniversary. And guess what they did? Put together puzzles until the power came back on. I would like to submit, Miss Lisa, I really hate puzzles. I do. I like logic puzzles. I like chess. I do like thinking. But spatially putting puzzles together is very difficult. Why did I just spend five minutes talking about puzzles? Because today, and this is going to sound backwards, but Mr. Pete, that's why I wanted to establish the edges first. In order to understand the end of the Bible, Mr. Pete, we first must understand the end of the Bible. And Mr. Pete, we first must understand its beginnings. We must understand the edges, the framework of the puzzle, so to speak. Or else, Miss Lisa, we would be stuck drowning in, well, where does this piece fit? Well, how does this piece fit? Well, this piece doesn't match this piece, so they must not be next to each other. So before we actually unpack the book of Revelation, I would like to give you the edges, the corners, and the straight lines that establish the book of Revelation. And to do that, I have to introduce you to a new word, and that's called a covenant. Now, I want to talk about the biblical word covenant. Miss Sharon, what is a covenant? It is a promise or agreement between two parties that is binding. In today's vernacular, we might call it a contract, but a covenant really is more than a contract. A contract has terms, and Miss Cheryl, if the terms of said contract are broken, the contract is deemed null and void. A covenant, especially one made before God or in His presence or by His will, is an unchanging covenant. It is something that lasts. And so in order to understand the book of Revelation, I need to introduce you to the edges of our puzzle. There are four covenants given in Scripture that will create for us, for lack of a better term, top, bottom, left, and right, of our puzzle. The first covenant is the Abrahamic covenant. Then the next side is the Palestinian covenant. Then the third side is the Davidic covenant. And the fourth side is the new covenant. Now, I'm going to go through and I'm going to explain all of those, but I just wanted you to see how those go together. The other thing I want you to understand about these covenants is they do not replace one another. It's not like God gave the Abrahamic covenant, and then when Mr. Don, he came and gave the Palestinian covenant, that one overruled. No, that one further expanded, it more interpreted, it gave more detail. And then a few books later, then Ms. Nancy, we have the Davidic covenant. Well, that one did not overrule the two previous covenants, it expanded its understanding even more. And then finally, fast forward to the New Testament, now we have Jesus and we have the new covenant. Well, the new covenant is the final expansion or final details in the puzzle that's been built all along. So we start Abrahamic, Palestinian, Davidic, and new. I'm sure those may be new terms to everybody, so let's take a look at what they are. First, let's look at the Abrahamic covenant. This is a covenant between God and a guy named, y'all are so smart, how did you know that? That's right, a guy named Abraham. And the basics of the Abrahamic covenant is this, I will be your God, make you into a great nation, and bless the world through you. Now this covenant is made between the man Abraham and God himself. Let's take a look at it in Scripture. Just in case you're wondering, this is all from the book of Genesis, and I'll show it to you when we get to the last part. But it's Genesis chapter 12 verses 1 through 3, chapter 17 verses 7, 8, and 19. And I'll have that all for you here on the screen in a minute. The Lord said to Abraham, leave your native country, your relatives, and your father's family, and go to the land that I will show you. I will make you into a great nation. I will bless you and make you famous, and you will be a blessing to others. I will bless those who bless you and curse those who treat you with contempt. All the families on earth will be blessed through you. I will confirm my covenant with you and your descendants after you from generation to generation. This is the everlasting covenant. I will always be your God and the God of your descendants after you, and I will give the entire land of Canaan, where you now live as a foreigner, to you and your descendants. It will be their possession forever, and I will be their God. Sarah, your wife, will give birth to a son for you. You will name him Isaac, and I will confirm my covenant with him and his descendants as an everlasting covenant. Now, the Abrahamic covenant is actually given three separate times in the book of Genesis. Once to Abraham, then once to his son, then once to his son. I tried to give it to you all in one context so you can really take a look. Zach, let's leave that there for a minute so those who can take notes can write all those passages down. The Abrahamic covenant is where the whole ball of acts starts. Mr. Jason, it's where the whole thing starts in the Bible. God selects a man named Abraham, and he makes a covenant, a promise with him. If you're looking when the Abrahamic covenant was actually installed, I believe it's at the very end of Genesis chapter 12. There's a really cool story where Abraham, God is speaking to Abraham, and Abraham, or God has told Abraham, take these certain animals, cut them in half, lay the halves on either side, and then we're going to walk in between them. It's the flaming fire pot story. Most people don't realize that that's actually when God installed the covenant with Abraham. See, in the Old Testament, if I wanted to make a promise with Miss Lorraine, if we were going to make a contract, a covenant, you and I would go and we'd find a cow or we'd find a goat, and we would cleave it right down the middle, and we would have it. Then you and I would both walk in between it. And what that meant was you and I understand if we make our contract, you look like that. That's what that meant. That meant this is an unbreakable covenant. Well, when God performs this act with Abraham, he walks through the midst of all of the animal halves, and his glory consumes them completely. Abraham had no job left. He couldn't walk through it because God had consumed it entirely, therefore guaranteeing this is an everlasting covenant in God's character. And this is where basically the story of the Old Testament launches off. God gets a guy named Abraham. Abraham has a couple sons. Then that guy has some sons, and then there are 12 sons, and then we go to Egypt, and then he mules us, and then they come out, and then he starts having kings. Well, all of that is based off of this promise right here called the Abrahamic covenant. You don't have to turn back there, but again, the Abrahamic covenant says, I will be your God, make you a great nation, and bless the world through you. So that's the first side of your puzzle. Now the next side of your puzzle is the Palestinian covenant, the Palestinian covenant. Know the word Palestinian covenant is not in the Bible, but it describes this part of God's promise. I will give you land to live, and you will receive blessing from living there. So the Palestinian covenant is the land grant. It is the Heavenly Father saying, you be my people, and this be your land. This be your back 40 that I done give to you. So take a look at it here. That was obviously the new international bill version. Here's the real one. Then the Lord said to Moses, give these instructions to the Israelites. When you come into the land of Canaan, which I am giving you as your special possession, these will be the boundaries. And if you turn there to Numbers chapter 34, you will see that God marked out on the land. Mr. John, you will have it from that river. The northern boundary will be that forest. Your western boundary will be that river. God was very clear in marking out all of the land that his children were to have. Now this is what we call the Palestinian covenant. Why? Because God gave the land of Palestine to his kids. And they are a promised possession from the Lord God to, and you saw in the first Abrahamic covenant, generation after generation. It wasn't just Abraham and Sarah and their two kids. This was an everlasting covenant for all of the children, all of the descendants of that line. This is now the next piece of the puzzle. God not just says, I'm going to be your God and you're going to be my people and you will bless the world, but I'm going to give you land to live in and not just land to live in. Miss Janie, I'm not just going to give you the worst of the land to live in. I'm going to give you the best. You are going to be blessed when you inherit the land that I give to you. So that's the second side of our puzzle. First, I will be your God, you will be my people, I will bless you. Second, by the way, now that you're my people, you get an inheritance. Here is the land that I promise you. Third, we have the Davidic covenant. This one says, a forever kingdom will come from the line of David. Now we're starting to hear something that might sound a little familiar, right? Because Jesus was born the son of David. One of the major Messianic expectations for Jesus was that he would be from the house and from the line of David. Well, that, this is the reason for that. This is called the Davidic covenant. So let's take a look in 2 Samuel chapter 7, 11b to 16, right? Furthermore, the Lord declares that he will make a house for you, a dynasty of kings. For when you die and are buried with your ancestors, I will raise up one of your descendants, your own offspring, and I will make his kingdom strong. He is the one who will build a house, a temple for my name, and I will secure his royal throne forever. I will be his father and he will be my son. If he sins, I will correct him, discipline him with the rod like any father would do, but my favor will not be taken from him as I took it from Saul, whom I removed from your sight. Your house and your kingdom will continue before me for all time and your throne will be secure forever. Now, this is the promise that God makes to King David. So Q, we've already followed the Moses story, the wilderness wanderings. We've been to Mount Sinai. We got the Ten Commandments. All of a sudden they want a king and then Q Saul and then Saul messes up and Saul gets pushed out of the way. And then here comes David. This promise is given from the Lord God to David himself. And the key word that I want you to understand, the key term from the Davidic covenant is this term, forever king. No human, Miss Cheryl, there's no human being that can be a forever king. We don't live forever. We don't last forever. There's only one who could physically fulfill that promise of being the forever king. And it's got to be someone, Mr. Jason, who can live forever if he's going to be a forever king. Now, obviously we today with the benefit of the New Testament in hindsight what it is, we understand that the Lord God was telling David about Christ. He could not have known that at that time unless the Lord prophetically told him. But we see it now. There did come a forever king and he is still the king of kings and Lord of lords. And that's why, so we start with the Abrahamic covenant. Well, we'll bless you. The world will be blessed through you. How did the whole world get blessed? Through Jesus. Then the Palestinian covenant. You're going to have all this land. I'm going to show you in a minute how that comes back. Then this Davidic covenant. That's the third side of the puzzle. And then finally there's one covenant left. The New Covenant. And I've divided the New Covenant into a part one and part two so I can explain them separately. First, New Covenant part one. Israel will be saved through Jesus. Take a look at the book of Hebrews. But this is the New Covenant I will make with the people of Israel on that day. Now remember, the progressive covenants do not erase one another. They expand one another. So don't be mistaken in the idea that the New Covenant takes away the three previous Old Testament covenants. It establishes and expands. But this is the New Covenant I will make with the people of Israel on that day. I will put my laws in their minds and I will write them on their hearts. I will be their God and they will be my people. And they will not need to teach their neighbors, nor will they need to teach their relatives saying, You should know the Lord. For everyone from the least to the greatest will know me already. And I will forgive their wickedness and will never again remember their sins. What is the master of the New Covenant? What is the massive benefit of the New Covenant in Jesus' blood? We no longer have to rely on the blood of animals to try and purchase the forgiveness for our sins. It's a one and done. Christ on the cross gave grace. Those who didn't know, the Gloucester Men's Conference was yesterday. It was fantastic. The keynote speaker gave an acronym for grace that I had heard in my childhood, but I hadn't heard before. And it is God's righteousness at Christ's expense. God's righteousness imputed to us at Christ's expense. That was the final expansion of these four sides of the puzzle. And don't miss the fact that Jesus came for his people. Jesus came to bring salvation to the Jews. Now, because of God's grace, I was born a Gentile. I'm Native Hawaiian. For everyone, everyone when they meet me, especially when I lived in South Florida, everybody thought I was Cuban. When I lived in New Jersey, everybody thought I was Italian. Just because apparently when you have this color skin and you live in that part of the world, that must be apparently. So when I lived in Jersey, I ate tons of lasagna. When I lived in South Florida, lots of Cuban coffee. In fact, the barber shop I went to, Mr. Pete, there was a young man who was going to our church in Florida, and he was the bass player on our worship team. Put himself through cosmetology school, put himself through barber school. And I said, listen, any young man who's going to do that at 22, I'm going to support him. And so he became my barber. And he happened to get a job at a barber shop where nobody else spoke English. Everybody spoke Cuban slang Spanish, which if you know anything about the different versions of Spanish, don't ever use Cuban slang when speaking to a Puerto Rican. And don't ever use Dominican slang when speaking to a Mexican, because they get very upset. So here I am. I'm in a Cuban barber shop. And Mr. Mark, I'm pretty much the only white guy. I'm the only gringo. But I look the right color. So everybody just kept on talking Spanish. And it was probably the second or third time that I came in the barber shop that other people actually addressed me in English. My nationality gets mistaken a lot. And I don't know exactly where I was going on that rabbit trail because I got myself lost, but it was fun. The point that I was trying to make before getting lost on my own rabbit trail is that when Jesus came to bring salvation, He came to deliver on all of those previous promises that the Lord had set up. But because of His grace, me, oh, that's right. I'm a Gentile. That was the whole point of the Hawaiian exercise was I'm a Gentile. I wasn't born a Jew to my knowledge. I was not born a native descendant of Abraham, which means, Mr. Pete, the Abrahamic covenant, the Palestinian covenant and the Davidic covenant don't apply to me. But the new covenant prays Jesus. It does. And there's where we find ourselves today in the area of the church. I was not born to my knowledge, a native Hebrew, a descendant of the original Abraham. But by the grace of God, the cross of Christ, Paul said, what? The wild olive branch has been grafted in by the grace of Christ. I get grafted in here at the end of the story. The problem is, is if you only look for the New Testament church in the book of Revelation, you miss there's three other sides to the puzzle. It'd be like trying to build a puzzle just from the bottom up with no roof and no left or right. So let's take a look at the second part of the new covenant. Gentiles can also be saved. This is where all of you who are not born native, native Jews or to your knowledge, born as natural descendants of Abraham, this is where we enter the story. Cue the rest of us. Take a look, Mr. Jack or Mr. Zach. Romans chapter 11, verse 11 and 12. Did God's people stumble and fall beyond recovery? Of course not. They were disobedient. So God made salvation available to the Gentiles. But he wanted his own people to become jealous and claim it for themselves. Now, if Gentiles were enriched because of the people of Israel turned down God's offer of salvation, think how much greater a blessing the world will share when they finally accept it. The new covenant in Christ's blood offers all of us who are not native born Jews the opportunity to be grafted into God's promises. But the first three still do not apply to us. They apply to God's people and he will still. And these are three, by the way, the first three covenants, you can take me back to the title graphic. I'm going to close it out. The first three covenants, the Abrahamic, the Palestinian and the Davidic, they apply to the native descendants of Abraham. They are still outstanding. Remember I said at the beginning, covenants are guaranteed, especially God's covenants are guaranteed by the character of Almighty God, which means there will be a day when God will deliver on his promises to his people. Can you take me to the slide that shows all of the six different messages? I just want to sort of show you what we're going to do over the next six weeks. This is sort of the prequel. This is the starter message. So we just talked about the promises. Somebody name one of the covenants we just talked about. The new covenant, Abrahamic covenant, the Davidic covenant, and the Palestinian covenant. These are the four sides to Andrea's puzzle that she's going to put together for us next week. You can bring it in. It's going to be framed. It's beautiful. As we examine now the inside of this puzzle that we're going to build, we're going to talk about the rapture that involves the church. We're going to talk about the tribulation that involves what happens on earth. We're going to talk about the earthly kingdom. Jesus comes back and sets up his throne in Jerusalem on earth. Que Davidic covenant, Jesus is on the throne. Que Palestinian covenant, Jesus will ultimately own the land that God promised to Abraham. All those years ago in Genesis. This is why that framework is so super important. Then final judgment. That's the big hell no hell, go no go, that everybody worries about in the end relation. And then finally, the eternal kingdom. Que the Davidic covenant again. Remember, Jesus' throne is a forever throne. Once it's established, I mean he today is the king of kings and lord of lords. He's not sitting on that throne yet over there in the Middle East in Jerusalem. Think about this also. Throughout all of scripture and known human history, the people of Israel have never completely owned all of the land that they were given by the Creator. Now just think about that for a minute. Mr. Zach, God himself, the sovereign eternal creator who spoke the world itself into existence. Ex nihilo, boom, spoke it and there it was. He's the one who promised Israel the land. Who better to give a forever promise of land ownership than the sovereign being who made the land? Like nobody's going to revoke God's ownership deed to the planet. And it's the Lord that said, here Mr. Pete, for you and all of your descendants, this little patch right here, this is y'all's. We can fight over it. We can debate over it. We can go back and forth and complain and fight over it. And go all the way back to the end of the New Testament. At AD 66, the Jewish people revolted against the Romans. In AD 70, the Romans destroyed Jerusalem, the temple. They rebuilt it and put a pagan altar at the temple. And it wasn't until all the way after World War II that Israel ever went back into its homeland. So from AD 73 to, and forgive me World War II history buffs, what year was it that nation was? Was it 45? So from AD 72 to 1945, the Jews didn't even live in this land that God had promised them. And now they have a section of it, but it's a minute fraction. If you go back and look at the boundaries that God said, Jason, this whole thing, if you look at what God said to Abraham, He said, look to the east and the west, all of this land I give to you. It was beyond the boundaries of what he could physically see in all four directions. That's what God promised him. Why am I waxing this so hard? Because if we don't have good puzzle sides, then we might be tempted to misconstrue what comes after this as we put together the inside of the puzzle. So as I close this morning, I want to ask you a question. Because I recognize to my knowledge, I was not born a native descendant of Abraham. I only come into the story at the new covenant, but you know what the new covenant buys me? Eternal salvation, eternal life. I get the opportunity to be a part of Jesus's kingdom. Even though I wasn't born into it, I was bought into it. I was bought at Calvary by his blood. My question for you this morning as you're here and you're worshiping with us is how do you relate to this story? How do you relate to the promises of God? For those who were born as descendants of Abraham, still Jesus who's king, he still came to buy your salvation. For those of us who were not born as descendants of Abraham, guess what? Jesus is still king and he died to buy your salvation. My question that I have for you this morning is have you taken it? Have you accepted the gift that's completely free that came at the highest cost? The highest cost of the Savior on the cross is given freely by God's grace, God's righteousness at Christ's expense.