We are going to continue our teaching series entitled the end of days and if you've not been here for all of the end of days That's okay. What we've been doing is taking a walk and a look through the events of the end of the world the events that the Bible predicts about the end of the world and We started out with this key thought the end of the world is really a series of events Modern media Hollywood they want to show you that the end of the world is this giant cataclysmic singular structure That's not what the Word of God says the Word of God points out a series of events We've looked at the four Old Testament promises that really are the framework of the end of the world Can anybody remember one of the Old Testament promises? The Davidic covenant. Yes, how about another one? the Palestinian covenant another one The new covenant excellent and what about the fourth one the Abrahamic covenant The Abraham that's right and they like the four sides of a jigsaw puzzle Establish for us what's happening? Then we've talked about the rapture which is where the church is raptured into the air to be with Jesus from the Greek or From the Latin rap Turo last week. We talked about the tribulation And by the way, if you missed any of these messages, you can find them all on reedswood.com We have a sermon player built right into the website so you can catch up this week We are going to discuss the earthly kingdom So where we are in our series of events, mr. Ulysses we have Jesus has raptured the church We have now endured the seven-year tribulation We talked about that and the seven-year tribulation ends with the return of Christ as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords That's where we left off last week. That is where we are going to pick up this week So let me give you point one of our message this morning I will also point out as I reiterate this last week We talked about the fact there are two main views of how to look at the scriptures One is an allegorical method. The other is a literal method. I fall into the school of thought I believe that when the Bible says God made a promise it means he made a promise So we're going to continue looking at these passages literally this morning There will be 75 days between the second coming and the earthly kingdom You can see here from Daniel chapter 12 verses 11 and 12. This is the home and Christian standard Bible From the time the daily sacrifice is abolished and the abomination of desolation is set up Remember that was halfway through the tribulation There will be 1290 days the one who waits and reaches 1335 days is blessed If you do the math you end up with a 75 day difference Why does God choose to delay 75 days between his return and the setting up of his kingdom? I don't know The scripture didn't say mr. Don there will be 75 days because Jesus is going to get a manicure and set up his Twitter feed That's not what it says. I can only tell you what scripture says is there is a difference between these two numbers Why because the Lord has willed it as such and when he does it miss Lisa I'm sure it will make sense at that point when he establishes his kingdom when the Lord returns We'll all be able to see that he had a plan what I want you to see However, is that the second coming of Christ and the setting up of the earthly kingdom are not exactly the same thing Yes, Jesus is the king Jesus will set up a kingdom again like we talked about last week I believe that when the Bible says he comes back to set up a kingdom. It means a real kingdom I don't think it means a an allegorical kingdom I think Jesus is gonna be a real king in a real Jerusalem in a real Israel on a real earth and for that reason I think that this will be his second coming when he returns he ends the tribulation Then he will set up his earthly kingdom. Now, let's take a look at what happens after that Those who survived the tribulation will be judged another thing common misconception when we get to the end of the Bible is Everybody thinks there's only one judgment. There's only one absolute go no-go smoking non-smoking judgment Reality is really Three different times that three different groups of people are judged the first time already happened at the rapture The bemisit of Christ the Church of Jesus Christ was judged. That's not a hell no hell judgment That's a reward bit. What is what is the rewards? So technically that one has already happened this one is commonly referred to as the sheep and goat judgment This is commonly referred to as the sheep and goat judgment if you'll turn with me to Matthew chapter 25 It's sort of a long section. We're gonna read here. It's Matthew 25 verses 31 through 46 But I don't want to I don't want to shorten or cheapen what Jesus is describing here Matthew chapter 25 we're going to begin reading in verse 31 and read all the way to verse 46 and What's on the screen here for you is the new living translation. These are the words of Jesus Matthew 25 starting in verse 31 When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him Then he will sit upon his glorious throne All the nations will be gathered in his presence and he will separate the people as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats He will place the sheep at his right hand and the goats at his left Then the king will say to those on his right come you who are blessed by my father inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the creation of the world For I was hungry and you fed me. I was thirsty and you gave me a drink. I Was a stranger and you invited me into your home. I was naked and you gave me clothing I was sick and you cared for me. I was in prison and you visited me Then these righteous ones will reply Lord When did we ever see you hungry and feed you or thirsty and give you something to drink? Or a stranger and show you hospitality or naked and give you clothing When did we ever see you sick or in prison and visit you and the king will say I? Tell you the truth when you did it to one of the least of these my brothers and sisters You were doing it to me Then the king will turn to those on the left and say away with you You cursed ones into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his demons for I was hungry and you didn't feed me I was thirsty and you didn't give me a drink. I was a stranger and you didn't invite me into your home. I Was naked and you didn't give me clothing. I was sick and in prison and you didn't visit me Then they will reply Lord When did we ever see you hungry or thirsty or stranger or naked or sick or in prison and not help you and he will answer I Tell you the truth when you refused to help the least of these my brothers and sisters you were refusing to help me And they will go away into eternal punishment and be and the righteous will go into eternal life now We're getting to the end of a very Complex story so I want to point out here in this passage that I've just read Like I pointed out last week Zach there are those who will say that this entire passage that Jesus is saying is completely allegorical That it's not really talking about the the millennial kingdom. He's not really talking about heaven or hell or judgment He's he's talking about lifestyle Christianity in the first century and I understand where they're coming from I really do but I'm just gonna fall back to what we said last week There's nothing in this chapter that says Jesus is making a parable so often It'll say and Jesus taught a parable and then Jesus will open up the teaching Letting us know as the reader that Jesus is not speaking literally he is telling us a story allegorically That's there's no precursor in this part of this text So Zach I'm gonna say that if Jesus is saying and now can we go back to the beginning of that passage so I can Kind of walk through it a little bit When the Son of Man who's the Son of Man again Jesus that's right Jesus and those of you are our Wednesday classers Where does the words the term Son of Man come from? It was an Old Testament prophetic term for the Messiah Then when the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him then he will sit upon his glorious throne Again, if I'm talking literally Jesus returns, where is he gonna sit on his throne in Jerusalem this right here? This is the fulfillment of that Davidic covenant when God promised there will be a forever king from the line of David If we take it literally that's Jesus coming in his glory and the angels with him and they will sit upon his glorious throne And all of the nations will be gathered in his presence and he will separate people as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats Because I don't see anything in this text that would require a symbolic or spiritual or allegorical Interpretation I'm just gonna take Jesus and his word and I'm gonna say Jesus is talking about this time Where we're hoping for the second coming where he's gonna set up his eternal millennia or his millennial kingdom Because of those promises made to Israel long ago And he's actually going to be the king this if we're counting miss Ilona for counting judgments Bema judgment already happened for the church at The rapture this is called the sheep and goats judgment and the reason it's called that is because the last line right there it Describes the division that Jesus has between people as a shepherd from sheep and goats So if you want to look this up most theologians are gonna agree. They're gonna call that the sheep and goat judgment Then he will place the sheep on his right hand and the goats at his left This is a common first century understanding that those who sit at the right hand are blessed and those who sit on the left Hand are cursed just think about when John and James Zebedee's wife They said let my let my son sit one on your right one on your left And she said you really don't know what you're asking the right hand or when Stephen in Acts chapter was it six seven when Stephen is being stoned to death. He looks up and he sees the son of man Standing at the right hand of God. So the right hand place is blessed then the king Again, I'm gonna say I think this speaking of when Jesus returns and he's a literal king because it says then the king Will say to those on his right and this is really the first time that we see humans Judged in the eternal sense. This is the first time that it's this is a saved not saved sort of thing Now what I also want to point out to you about this is if we're tracking the events remember that the rapture already happened, right? You know what's super cool about this passage for me since I'm looking at it literally and I'm trying to lay it out in a Timeline if the entire church who believed in Jesus was raptured before the tribulation Mr. Pete there's another group here who believes in Jesus That tells me that the gospel is still preached and that people still get saved throughout the seven-year tribulation Because now when we're back at the sheep and go judgment There's more people that go to the right side of Jesus that even in the midst of all of the Uper icky yucky stuff that we looked at last week in the tribulation The gospel still continues and it goes on and there are still more people who come to Christ That to me gives me hope that even in the midst of all of that Really yucky stuff that we looked at last week The the the scrolls and the bowls and the trumpets and all God pouring out that wrath in order to draw Israel to him More people still get to come to Christ However, the antithesis is also true. This is the first moment in eternity past where we see people eternally separated from God Fast forward one more Fast forward one more Stop. Yep. Then the King again Jesus will turn to those on the left and say away with you you cursed ones into eternal fire Underline this next part prepared for the devil and his demons The most important thing that I think everyone needs to know about hell is hell was not designed for human consumption Man was not created to have an eternal destiny in hell go all the way back to Genesis Man was created to live on this earth in relationship with our Creator We were created to be in relationship with God But then sin comes in and then Jesus comes and defeats sin and now all of a sudden Eternal separation from God is actually an option for humans But I want you to see here even Jesus is pointing it out prepared for the devil and his demons Well, and I'll say it this way. I Don't believe human beings were ever designed to go to hell but some choose to And that's the reason why we must never give up preaching the gospel Because mr. Jason we were never designed for hell to be an eternal destination for us God designed it for the disobedient angels who fell from his heavenly kingdom But unfortunately because sin has entered the world and Christ has brought grace We must preach the gospel and get people to stop Because we don't have to we have the grace of God Forward one more Yep forward again And they and here it is and they will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life now We've talked about tribulation happened. We've talked about Jesus came back He's now set up his eternal kingdom the sheep and goat judgment is the first time That's the first time that the Lord has set up his eternal kingdom He's now set up his eternal kingdom the sheep and goat judgment is the first time when unbelievers get cast into eternal separation from God, however The the believers at who are alive at this time don't He didn't cast them away So here's where and again, here's where we have to make our best interpretation of what are the texts say? This is why I've been saying I think this is super literal because this is the point it gets a little Difficult to track we is the Church of Jesus Christ miss Andrea. We were already raptured We were raptured to be with Christ then we were a part of Jesus coming back and setting up his kingdom however, there is a group of human believers Non-raptured believers in Christ who survived through the tribulation period who also get to be a part of this earthly kingdom So at the very beginning of Jesus's earthly kingdom, there is not only resurrected believers But believers who had never died yet because they got saved they came to Christ during the trip during the tribulation period Does that make sense? So those of us Joe we were raptured already. We believe in Jesus We were raptured and we were given glorified bodies at that moment of rapture We are now a part of the Millennial Kingdom Along with those believers who were not raptured because they got saved post rapture all of that is an outcome of a pre Tribulation rapture concept now as I pointed out there are other schools of thought and they are very much worth reading This is just the best literal interpretation that I've been able to make of how these events all play out So let's keep going forward Satan and his angels will be bound. This is from Revelation chapter 20 Verses 1 through 3 Revelation chapter 20 verses 1 through 3 then I saw an angel coming down from heaven with the key To the bottomless pit your translation there could say Tartarus and a heavy chain in his hand He sees the dragon that old serpent who is the devil Satan and bound him in chains for a thousand years The angel threw him into the bottomless pit which he then shut and locked so Satan could not deceive the nations anymore Until the thousand years were finished Afterward he must be released for a little while. This is where honestly mr. Jason I don't understand why God planned it this way I am more than willing to accept that my reading of that as literal really leaves me confused But when I read this literally rewind one screen for me, sir An Angel comes down with a key to the bottomless pit a heavy chain He seizes Satan and and by proxy all of his underlings as well and he binds them for a thousand years Again, I'm gonna go literal miss Ilona. I think that's real I think as Jesus is reigning as the king in Jerusalem as the king of kings Satan and his angels are bound for a thousand years now take me forward and Hear this last line here in verse 3 afterward He must be released for a little while the millennial kingdom in my view is a literal 1,000 years where Satan is no longer allowed to roam the earth He is bound in this place the bottomless pit and Christ is on the throne in Jerusalem fulfillment of the Davidic covenant fulfillment of the Palestinian covenant because Israel gets all the land that God deeded to them all the way back in the Old Testament fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant because the whole world has been blessed not only with Christ as king but Satan no longer gets free reign and rule over the earth and The fulfillment of the new covenant we as Christians as believers in Jesus get grafted into this kingdom This is the moment where I would be willing to say all four sides of our puzzle point to Jesus He is the fulfillment of all of those things and for one reason Satan and by proxy means all of his underlings as well Satan and his entire demonic horde are chained and bound for a thousand years as Christ rules in a literal Jerusalem in a literal Israel on a literal throne as the literal king of kings and Lord of Lords, however wait in verse 3 Satan will be released from that confine after a thousand years passes now take us forward The remaining Saints are resurrected now this is Again, this is an interpretation if you want to take a look at the different schools there This is from Revelation chapter 20 verses 4 & 5 right after what we just read So Satan's bound for a thousand years until that time then I saw thrones and people sitting on them They've been given the authority to judge and I saw the souls of those who had been beheld by the throne They had not worshiped the beast or his statue nor accepted his mark on their foreheads or on their hands They all came to life again and reigned with Christ for a thousand years again that term thousand years I don't think it's literal because they keep using it. This is the first Resurrection the rest of the dead did not come back to life till the thousand years it ended now Who are we talking about? Well, just like we talked about the church of Jesus was resurrected The Lord chose to not come back until the end of the lifetime of everyone in this room That means we will have already passed on we are given our glorified bodies at the rapture Then when Jesus raptures during the tribulation more people get saved Well, mr. Zachary during the tribulation Christians get killed too But see they weren't raptured yet Right. We were not raptured yet. We were not raptured yet We were not raptured yet We were not raptured yet But see they weren't raptured yet Right. We were raptured pre-tribulation in a pre-tribulation rapture view. We were already raptured Well, mr. Mark, what happens all the people who turn to Jesus and got beheaded during the tribulation here They get to participate in God's king christ's kingdom So now and that's where you got to track all these different groups How does this work the church of Jesus Christ? We were automatically raptured and then everyone who believed in Jesus before us automatically raptured But there's a group of people who come to Jesus during the tribulation and some of those people are beheaded for their faith during the tribulation They don't get immediately raptured. It's not like the don't pass go just go straight to Jesus This is that moment when all of the believers in Christ who suffered martyrdom during the tribulation rejoin all of us now Most theologians will agree and I say most that mr. Pete. This is also where Any old testament believing saint is resurrected It doesn't say that i'm just saying that's where most because the problem is we got to figure out how do all these groups of people work together I'm willing to say this is absolutely people who came to christ and were killed for their faith during the tribulation Where are the old testament saints? Rejoined, I just don't know and since it's not clear. Mr. Pete. I'd rather stay with I don't know I'll stick with what I think is clear and the rest i'll say the lord will have to teach me as I go So at the end of this at the very beginning of of jesus's millennial kingdom he returns Satan is bound anyone who came to christ during that tribulation time Is is either a if they're still alive They're judged as sheep not goats if they had died during the tribulation for their faith then here christ resurrects them as well and then finally Satan will be released and judged This is revelation chapter 20 verses 7 through 10. So we've just been really going through revelation 20 When the thousand years come to an end Satan will be let out of his prison He will go out to deceive the nations called gog and magog in every corner of the earth He will gather them together for battle a mighty army as numberless as sand along the seashore And I saw them as they went up to the broad plain of the earth and surrounded god's people and the beloved city But fire from heaven came down on the attacking armies and consumed them Then the devil who had to seen them was thrown into the lake Of burning sulfur joining the beast and the false prophet and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever Again, mr. Zack literal. I don't think this is a spiritual battle I think this is an absolutely literal battle that will take place after jesus reigns for a thousand years Satan is let out now. Here's the here's the real rub in this question When we started the millennial kingdom Everyone was a christian, right sheep and goat judgment had just happened. So everyone who started the millennial kingdom Was a christ follower. However at the end of the thousand years Satan's able to go out and deceive a group of people and make an army as numerous as the sand on the seashore So where do all the unbelievers come from is a classic question for theologians? Where does satan's army come from number one? Satan is the prince of lies So when he's released if he's at if he has had a thousand years to plan How he's going to deceive as many people as possible, you know, he's going to be good at it, but there is Another option in there and this is why I wanted you to track the different groups of people At the start of the millennial kingdom There are still humans in non-glorified bodies alive Those who survived the tribulation and who came to christ who were not martyred They weren't resurrected. That means they weren't given glorified bodies. That means that group of people still has children for those thousand years There are children born into the millennial kingdom who still have to make the choice. Am I going to follow christ? This is where most theologians will agree A lot of satan's army comes from because those of us who have glorified bodies jason We're already in the bible has promised us neither death nor life can separate me from the love of god So those of us who are in glorified bodies, we don't turn away from christ, but mr Pete there's a whole group of people who are still in earthly human bodies And they're born during the millennial kingdom and then of course however many people satan is allowed to Tempt and deceive when he's released from prison and this is really what we consider to be the battle of armageddon Have you ever heard that term the battle of armageddon takes place here? This is the this is it Mr margaret is over there is no more battle. Jesus is king satan is cast into hell forever This is really the end of the the battle with satan There's still a little more to come in what jesus is going to do next but here at the end of it Satan gathers together an army of people through his deception through his demonic means he gathers them all together and then he wages one final battle and There it is third line The the plane of the earth and surrounded god's people and the beloved city Where's the beloved city? Jerusalem Again, if we take a little interpretation, where's jesus ruling from? The promises that god set forth the davidic the palestinian they surround Jerusalem for one last time And put up well, I guess what they would assume is the biggest battle they can do and so in typical god fashion like in exodus like as as um, mr. Zachary mentioned on the on mount caramel God just sends fire down from heaven and protects his people and this is it the battle is over Satan is defeated and now ultimately who is cast into the lake of fire here satan all of his angels And all of the people who followed him all those people that satan was allowed to deceive and turned against jesus They are all now cast into eternal separation from god at this point All right, take me out to the title graphic because that's a super happy moment to try to end to try to end a sermon on I get that Why do I think studying the end of days is important number one? I want to know what happens My lord has given me A picture an image of where we're going and I want to participate in his mission But number two and and I I think it's it's sort of a worldview issue There are people out there who think a lot like the the typical anybody remember the japanese yin and yang symbol The yin and yang symbol it's the white and the dark it looks best with milk chocolate in a fondue pot trust me The yin and yang symbol what it tries to illustrate is that light and dark Are equal forces. This is called dualism the idea that light and dark good and evil God and satan are equal yet opposite forces That does not track with a biblical worldview Satan is not equal to god ever He is minuscule in comparison to the power of the creator That's the foundation that our worldview is built on it's always god and never satan god is always stronger and the enemy is not And at the end of this battle, we see it done once and for all So though we live in the midst of a spiritual battle. Yes, we battle not against flesh and blood Yes, we are living in the midst of a spiritual battle we don't have to worry about losing If you read the end of the book, guess what? Mr. Pete we win That's the great news Now is it a little challenging to have to go through and see it? Yes, why because if he had given us step by step minute by minute instructions, it wouldn't be called faith I've read the end of the book we win that gives me the encouragement to now in my day and time right now How am I participating in the plan of god?