Well good morning and welcome to Readswood. My name is Bill. If I had not got a chance to meet you, I'm still a little bit new. This is only my second week. Last week I began a teaching series. I like to teach in series. I think it helps us to explore different parts of the Bible as we go through it. We began a series on the parables of Jesus. Jesus often taught using parables. And a parable is really no more than a short story to teach an illustration. A fable would be another English word I could use for the same principle. A parable, specifically when we're speaking of Jesus' parables, are short stories that he used in order to teach spiritual concepts. Now Trish, what you'll discover as you look at the parables of Jesus is the parable is often based in something tangible, something corporeal, something earthbound. Last week we looked at the parable of the Good Samaritan. Well that's about a physical guy on a physical road. And there's some dynamics there. There's some geography there. This week we're going to talk about the parable of the farmer, or you may be more familiar, the parable of the sower. So if you have your Bibles with you this morning, whether they're physical or digital, please turn or click with me to the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew is kind of easy to find. It's the first book in the New Testament. So Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, we're just going to go to Matthew. The Gospel of Matthew, and we're going to be looking in chapter 13. The Gospel of Matthew, chapter 13. Now this morning is going to be a little bit different because the parable of the farmer is actually mentioned by Jesus, and then a few verses later he explains it. It's one of the few parables we have in Scripture where Jesus himself is telling us what he's telling us. So we're going to be looking at Matthew chapter 13. I'm going to begin reading in verse 3. We're going to read verses 3 through 8. And then if you want to take your finger or whatever and go down to verse 18 and just sort of stick a finger there, we're going to read verses 3 through 8. And then I'm going to jump down to verse 18, and I'm going to read 18 to 23. So here we go. Let's start it in Matthew chapter 13, starting at verse 3. And I'm reading in the NIV, the New International Version this morning. Matthew chapter 13, verse 3 says this. Then he told many things in parables, saying, A farmer went out to sow his seed. As he was scattering the seed, some fell along the path, and the birds came and ate it up. Some fell on rocky places where it did not have much soil. It sprang up quickly because the soil was shallow. But when the sun came up, the plants were scorched and they withered because they had no root. Other seed fell among thorns, which grew up and choked out the plants. Still, other seed fell on good soil, where it produced a crop 160 or 30 times what was sown. Now jump down to verse 18. This is what it says. This is Jesus now explaining his teaching. Listen then to what the parable of the sower means. When anyone hears the message about the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is the seed sown along the path. The seed falling on rocky ground refers to someone who hears the word and at once receives it with joy. But since they have no root, they only last a short time. When trouble or persecution comes because of the word, they quickly fall away. The seed falling among thorns refers to someone who hears the word. But the worries of this life and the deceitfulness of wealth choke the word, making it unfruitful. But the seed falling on good soil refers to someone who hears the word and understands it. This is the one who produces a crop, yielding 160 or 30 times what was sown. This is probably one of Jesus' most famous parables. And as I pointed out, it's one of the few where we actually get an explanation for what Jesus was saying. So what I'd like to do is just sort of walk back through this. And again, I try not to do too much editorialization, but there are some really, really fun nuggets just below the surface. So first I want to make sure that we set the stage. Let's go back to verse 3. Just look at the first sentence of Jesus' parable. He says this, A farmer went out to sow his seed. This is the setting for the parable. Now, unlike last week's parable, we don't have a specific geographic location. There is no geopolitical or racial issues at stake here. But the opening sentence, A farmer went out to sow his seed, does give us some details that I want to make sure we're all clear on as we open this passage. So let's get a few details right. First, our primary character, the farmer. The farmer is Jesus. And this is super important to getting how this parable lays out. The farmer is Jesus. Jesus is speaking directly of himself. But Pete, indirectly, the farmer could also be anyone else who spreads the message of Jesus. Jesus is the farmer spreading the seed, whilst we today in the New Testament church, we follow up through the Great Commission. So the farmer can also apply to us. But in direct context, Jesus is referring to himself. Secondly, the farmer went out to sow his seed. The farmer had to step outside of his own house in order to sow seed. I know that sounds really silly, but most farmers do not go to their living room and start trying to grow their crops there. No, generally, they step outside their home, and they have either a back 40 or they have a field that's been prepared. Super important, Jesus was very clear. The farmer went out to sow his seed. Third detail, the seed itself is very important. What is a seed? And I'm not a gigantic biology person. Our children are homeschooled. When they get to biology, mom's going to have to help, because I did not do very well in biology in school. Give me chemistry, give me physics, give me math. Biology was a tad bit more challenging. But I do know this. I know that a seed, whether it's an apple seed, an orange seed, seeds are the potential for life of the next generation of the plant. The seed gets planted. The seed then dies in the ground. It releases that which God put in the seed. And the seed is the potential for the next generation of life that comes out of that plant. And then finally, there's a fourth aspect, and that's where Jesus spends most of his time expounding, and that's the soil. A farmer went out to sow his seed. Implied in that sentence is, Brian, I've got to put the seed somewhere. I've got to sow it somewhere. And interestingly, the difference in soil is where Jesus spends the majority of his time in this parable. Another thing I need you to understand, all the soils mentioned in this parable are in the same patch of land. It's very important to getting where he's talking about. It's not like, Sharon, we didn't, the farmer didn't go, you know what? I'm going to put some seeds over here on the path. Then you know what? I've got some rocky ground over here. I'm going to put some seeds up there. And then, wait a minute, wait a minute. Here, there's some thorns over here. Let's see if I can get my corn to grow over there. And then all, this is not what he did. What you have to see mentally in your mind is the farmer's got one big square patch of land, and he's casting the seed, he's throwing the seed out on this patch of land. And from the farmer's perspective, it all looks the same. He's walking on a path, so granted, some of the seed may fall at his feet as he's walking, just like I could walk this path right between these pews. That doesn't mean I'm not in the sanctuary. It means I'm on the path that's part of this room. Super important to understanding it. Now, with those variables in mind, there's one other thing I want you to understand. On Wednesday night, we touched on this briefly. The chapter and verse notations that are in your Bible that helped us go where we were going this morning. I said, let's all turn to Matthew chapter 13. That chapter 13 did not exist in the original text of Scripture. Those were added hundreds of years later so that we could sit here this morning and study a passage of Scripture together. But when the original text of Scripture was written, there were no chapters and verse notations. It was just a single letter. In fact, it was a scroll. It was a single scroll. So one of the things that's so important to understanding anything in the Bible is taking a look at what happened right before it. If you were to turn to Matthew chapter 12 and take a look at it, you know what you're going to see? You're going to find the Pharisees denying Jesus as the Messiah. In fact, he says, he casts out demons by the power of demons. In chapter 12, the Jewish leaders, the Pharisees, are denying Jesus' Messiahship. And then in chapter 13, Matthew unloads several parables right in a row. The kingdom of God is like, the kingdom of God is like, the kingdom of God is like, the kingdom of God is like, the kingdom of God is like. That is super important to understanding this. Jesus is talking about a change that has now happened. Jesus was the promised Messiah of the Jewish people. Mr. Charles, he came in order to rectify that which had gone wrong in the New Testament. And his people denied him. They said, you're not our Messiah. You're operating with the power of demons. And now here in verse 13, the kingdom of God is like, the kingdom of God is like, the kingdom of God is like. Jesus is teaching us something new about the kingdom of God that the first century Jewish audience didn't understand. So here's the first observation I'd like to point out to you. All of the seed that the farmer sowed was sown indiscriminately. Miss Ilona, he just cast the seed. He didn't, because think about it this way. If you knew there was only one part of the ground that was good soil, would you waste the seed on the bad soil? No, nobody would do that. So the only way the seed falls on all the different kinds of soil is if the farmer casts them indiscriminately. They're all packed in next to each other. And he's throwing that seed out. Why? Because the farmer wants to grow the crop, obviously. Anybody who's been in farming and gardening, and I will immediately say, I have the biggest black thumb that has ever lived. I could kill a cactus. I'm not a very good horticulturalist, but I know a simple fact that if I want to grow corn, I should probably plant corn seeds. If I want to grow tomatoes, I probably should not plant corn seeds. I should probably plant tomato seeds. I know that seems like simple logic, but the farmer is casting out the seed because he wants it to grow, and he's casting it out indiscriminately. He's just throwing it out there. Now remember, who's the farmer? Jesus. What's the seed? Jesus explains it. The message about the Kingdom of God. Jesus himself is casting out the message of the Kingdom of God indiscriminately to anyone who will listen. This illustrates that God's love for humanity is indiscriminate. In fact, if you look at 1 Timothy 2, verse 4, God who wants all people to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. Jesus is illustrating. Keep in mind, for the whole of the Old Testament, God had a specific people, except for the first 12 chapters of Genesis. We can get into that when we get into Genesis. God has chosen a people for himself. They are the Hebrews. They are the Israelites. In Exodus, there was this really cool guy named Moses, and he went up on a mountain, and he came home with some stone tablets. There's this whole huge story about God picking a people for himself, a covenantal relationship. Here we get to the New Testament, and Jesus says, No, no, no, no, no. God's love is for everyone. He's just freely scattering this seed to anyone who will listen, because we know that God wants all people to be saved. Secondly, as the farmer is throwing out the seed, the seed meets different kinds of obstacles. This is where we get into some really funny degree. The farmer is indiscriminately casting out the seed, but the seed met different obstacles. This is what I want us to examine this morning. Though the seed itself was sown everywhere, it was not received as readily, or it was not as fruitful as it was in each place. Let's talk about the first place that the seed was sown, the path. The path is exactly what it sounds like. It is a path in which the farmer would walk around his farming area. Does that mean that the path is paved? No, it's still dirt, the same dirt that's over there. It's the same dirt. But what's the difference about the dirt that I'm walking on? It's packed down. One could say it's hardened. It's not as easily penetrable. Why? Because me and my fat 300-pound self are going to walk all over this dirt until I pack it down, until it's nice and hard. And the nature of the path makes it more difficult to receive the seed. So what does it say in verse 4? As he was scattering the seed, some fell along the path, and the birds came and ate it up. And then verse 19, When anyone hears the message about the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches it away what was sown in his heart. This is the seed sown along the path. The path, and again this is all analogy. Jesus has got this huge analogy going on. If the farmer is Jesus and the seed is the message of God, then what is the four soils? People. Four different reactions to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. And the first is the hard heart that's been packed down by too much life and too much cynicism and too much difficulty until your heart gets so hard and so impenetrable that even when the message of the Gospel is given to you, you don't understand it. And that's what he said here in verse 19. Anyone who hears the message about the kingdom and does not understand it. Now, this word understand in the Greek literally means to understand, to consider, or to comprehend. It involves the mental faculty of the mind. It's not I didn't hear it. That's very important. One could say, well someone didn't get saved because someone didn't preach to me. That's not what Jesus is saying. No, no, no. You heard the message of the Gospel, but you didn't understand it. It didn't make it into your mental faculty to where it was comprehensible. Well, now there's an interesting challenge. How do we as 21st century Christians take a 1st century message about a 1st century savior and make sure that people understand it? It's not just enough to teach the Bible. And this has been something that's been so important to me. It's not enough to just teach the Bible. Miss Ilona, if people don't understand it, I've still failed. And we can talk all day about Greek root words and syntax and culture shift and all that other stuff, but at the end of the day, if we don't deliver the word of God in a way that makes sense to a 21st century audience, then we're throwing seed on the path. We're throwing seed right to where people aren't going to understand it. Now interestingly, Jesus also mentions that the enemy is involved here. There's a bird that comes and takes the seed away. Because you know what? I bet you if I left the seed on the path and me and my big self walked on it two or three or four or five more times, I might be able to drive that seed into the ground. But the enemy doesn't want me to be able to do that. He doesn't want me to be able to use my Boris Jersey style persistence to be able to get the Gospel to penetrate. So he's going to come in and he's going to steal it. And that is probably one of the biggest challenges that we have as the modern day church today is not letting the enemy steal the message. And he can do it through a variety of different ways. Sometimes people are just absolutely opposed to the Gospel. The enemy has helped harden their heart to the point that I don't want to hear. I've met you church people. You're all this and you're all that. And my brother's cousin went to a church one time and they treated him this way. And that hardness of heart settles in place because the enemy wants it that way. The enemy doesn't want us to find out that there's freedom in Jesus. The enemy doesn't want our lost friends to find out that Jesus isn't just about changing your eternity. It's about changing your tomorrow. They don't want people to hear that message of hope. So the enemy flutters in like a bird, takes it away. That's the path. Now the second place that Jesus describes is the rocky places. And this can be a little bit confusing. So let me just ask you. I want you to picture rocky places in your mind. Ready, go. Anybody who picked the meat locker in Philadelphia, see me after church. And anybody who didn't get that joke, see me later and I'll explain it. Rocky places are not a hillside covered, it was funny. Come on, church can be funny. Somebody got it. Rocky pounding a side of beef in Philadelphia. Oh yeah, the rocky places. If we could have cued the music, it would have been great. You know, a little montage. The rocky places can be a little confusing. It's not a hillside covered in rocks. No, the rocky places are a patch of ground that looks like all the other ground. That just below the surface there are large rocks. And what do the rocks do? The rocks stop the seed from being able to draw down a root and get to that nutritious soil below. But West, there's a problem. The rocky places look just like the good soil from the top. It's not until you cut down to a cross section that you can see, oh, well there's rocks down here. Technically, it's not until the farmer sowed the entire field and then he noticed certain patches wouldn't grow like the others. That he was actually able to see where the rocky places were. Because the farmer doesn't have x-ray vision. He can't see through the first 24 inches of the soil to know where the rocks are and where they're not. That's what the rocky places are. The rocky places are these parts of the farmer's field where the rocks are below the surface. They're not going to be visible on Sunday morning or on Wednesday. They're going to be hidden. They're going to be hidden. Because remember, what's the soil? The soil is people. The soil is the people who are supposed to be receiving the message of God. There are people sitting in church today. Probably not our church because our church is perfect. I get that. But there is a church in a galaxy far, far away somewhere where people come to church and they hide things. There is a church somewhere in a galaxy far, far away where people conceal the rocky places in their life just enough below the surface. And I know the right words to say in church. And I know the right words to the songs. And I can make it look like I fit in. And no one's going to challenge me. And I can keep my rocky places to myself. And what's sad is that person's going to be stifled in their growth because the roots never broke past the rocks in order to fully take root. What does he say? Verse 5. Some fell upon rocky places where it did not have much soil. It sprang up quickly because the soil was shallow. Interestingly enough, the rocky places did spring up quickly. And you could be tempted to go, hallelujah, somebody else met Jesus. And then all of a sudden you wait. And you see if there's lasting fruit from that sprang up quickly. Look in verse 21. But since they have no root, they lasted for a short time. When trouble or persecution comes because of the word, they quickly fell away. And I'm a little bit of an over-preparer, so I wanted to know what's the difference between trouble and persecution? These are the two things, right? I wanted to know what's the difference between trouble and persecution? Because apparently these are the things that it takes roots to make it past, right? If the rocky places cause trouble and persecution that stop the roots, well, I want to know what that is. So I looked it up. The first word is phlepsis. And it literally means a pressing together, a pressure, or tough choices. Now I could say there have been a few moments in my life where my faith has caused me to make some terrible decisions. Where I had to either stand my ground in something that I disagreed with or whether I needed to back up. Because it's something that I shouldn't be in the way of. Sometimes in the life of faith, we are required to make tough choices. And that's what the roots are for. The roots are so you can be connected, you can be grounded, that you can know when it's time to make the tough choice, you have the ability. And the word there for persecution is diogmas. And it literally means persecution. Direct and intentional opposition due to the gospel. I will say in America, we don't really experience a lot of this. There is some. There is some persecution of the Christian church in America. But it's not nearly as flagrant and blatant as it is in foreign countries. You know, in the country of China, for instance. If you're a Christian, you have to have the China's government authorized Bible. Your church has to be registered with the government or it's illegal and you can go to jail. We don't have that type of persecution here in America. But in academia, in fact, I have a friend of mine who's attending a secular university. This semester he's in a philosophy class. And the assignment was write a two-page paper establishing where your moral compass is grounded. How do you decide what is right and what is wrong? What is good and what is bad? And then the teacher also said, I do not want any religious answers. And my friend called me and he said, Bill, he goes, what am I supposed to do? My moral compass is based on God's Word. It has been my whole life. That's the way I was raised. God's Word teaches me right from wrong. And if I answer in a religious answer, my teacher is going to fail me. That's a tough call. That's a tough choice. And so I told my friend, I said, listen, I said, you might be the only Christian in that class that's got the guts to stand up and say, My moral compass is established in my relationship with Jesus. I said, I think it is more godly to stand up for a godly right and take the F if necessary, then hide your faith. Because there may be somebody else in that class who didn't have a moral compass. There may be somebody else in that class who didn't have the guts to do what you do. And that could start a whole lunchtime conversation. That is a type of persecution. It's not as deadly and life-ending as going to jail, but kid you not, it's here. American culture is drifting further and further away from biblical basis, and we have to be ready to stand our ground and stand determined to defend. That's what roots are for. That's why we should have depth in our faith and relationship in our churches. Let's look at the third part of the question. Let's look at the third place he talked about. There was some seed that was scattered among thorns. In verse 7, other seed fell among thorns which grew up and choked out the plants. And then in 22 he explains, the seed falling among the thorns refers to someone who hears the word, but the worries of this life and the deceitfulness of wealth choke out the word, making it unfruitful. You know what I think is interesting about both the rocky places and the places with thorns? They both heard the word of God and they both had immediate growth. So how do we tell the difference between the good soil, the rocky places, and the places with thorns if all three of them started growing? Time. Fruit over time is what Jesus is showing us here. Take a look at the places among thorns. Thorns are a natural growing counterproductive plant that chokes out and spreads, but is directly bent towards harm and not health. Thorns are a plant. They grow. They get nutrients from the same soil that the crop would have gotten nutrients from. So it's not an alien or outside additive here. Jesus is using a very natural enemy to any good farmer, weeds. In fact, Jesus in another parable talks about the wheat and the tares. Someone has sown weeds amongst my wheat. And what does he say? He says, wait, we'll separate it later. Because right now if you try to pull all the weeds, you might stamp out some of the good. So we'll just wait. Let them all grow. We'll separate it at the end of the day. At the very beginning of this growth cycle, places two, three, and four all look the same. Because there is some immediate growth. But here the thorns do not stop the growth, but they stop the fruitfulness. So now we've got to talk about what's the ultimate point of planting, growing a crop. What do you do after you harvest the crop? I've never been a farmer, but it would make sense to me that part of the crop has to seed next year's crops. So if I'm collecting corn, for instance, since I've been there a lot, some of the corn that I collect, Mr. Frank, I'm going to have to use it to plant next year's corn, or I ain't got no seed. Some of it's got to be reseeded. And that's what got choked out by the thorns. The ability to have fruit. And two things specifically choke out fruit in the life of the believer. Number one, worry. I hate worry. I hate worry. Because I'm ADHD, I can get so focused on this one topic or this one idea that it draws me in, and it's very unhealthy. And it stops me from being fruitful. That's what the thorns did. And the second thing, the deceitfulness of wealth, or I'll translate, the lie about money. You know what the biggest lie about money is? I need more of it to be happy. That's the biggest lie about money. I need more of it to be happy. I have met a few people in my lifetime who had no need for more money. And they told me outright, said, Bill, you can't buy happiness with money. Happiness with money is an illusion. It's a lie. And guess what? It's a lie on purpose. It's a lie on purpose to distract you from being able to be fruitful in your faith by saying, If I just work this extra shift, if I just put in a few more hours, if I just do a little more, I'll have a little more. And having that little more will make me happy. No, it won't. Having that little more will make you tired. We have to be careful, both in our lives, because, Pete, we get an interesting, we're both the soils and the sower. If you're here this morning and you know Jesus as your Savior, you are both the soils in this story, and in the next step you will be the farmer who's trying to share that with the next person. We get a very unique perspective to interact with Jesus' teaching here. And then finally, the fourth area, the good soil. The good soil is fruitfulness. But I think what we just learned from the previous points, fruitfulness is not the same as growth. Because the rocky places were the only ones that didn't have growth. No, excuse me. The path is the only one that didn't have growth. The rocky places had growth. The thorns had growth. But what's the difference between the good soil and both of those? The fruit that was actually produced. In verse 8, Still other seed fell on good soil where it produced a crop, 160 or 30 times what was sown. Interestingly, even amongst the good soil, the fruitfulness is not the same. Jesus gave us three examples of unfruitful soil, and here, technically, we have three examples of fruitful soil. Because even though the soil was fruitful, they didn't all produce the same amount of fruit. Then in verse 23, But the seed falling on good soil refers to someone who hears the word and understands it. This is one who produces a crop yielding 60 or 30 times what was sown. There is a difference between growing in your faith and being fruitful in your faith. There is a difference between memorizing Scripture. Not that that's bad. Trust me, it's not. There is a difference between knowing all the background stuff that I try to find out about for you on Sunday mornings. I can know all of that and still be unfruitful. Being fruitful in your faith has nothing to do with your growth. It has to do with your production. If the seed is the message, then it has to do with how you share your faith with others. You can grow in knowledge, and that's great, and it's good, and it's strong. You can grow in character, and that's great, and it's biblical, and we should. But at the end of the day, all of that growth is meant for a purpose. And it's meant for us to take the very message in the words of Jesus to someone in our life, in our family, in our work circles, in our house circles, in our school somebody. If you're not being fruitful with your faith, why are you growing? That was a hard one for me this week as I was writing it. Because as the pastor, everybody assumes that I'm really good at sharing my faith. Now, is that a fair assumption? I don't know. I've met a few pastors who don't do really good on one-on-one evangelism. Just because I'm good at this doesn't mean I'm good at this. Just because I'm good at talking in front of crowds doesn't mean I'm super good one-on-one. Now, I happen to be one of those people that I prefer the one-on-one. I say it this way. I like the coffee table more than the conference table. I prefer to sit at Starbucks, buy a latte, talk to an atheist. That's an afternoon for me. I enjoy that. But I've grown and gotten ready for that. I've read. I've learned. I've asked God for wisdom, and I've trained for that. And now it's my job to train you so you can do that. Being in church? Fantastic. That's the first step. Hearing the Word of God, understanding the Word of God are all good things. But I need you to understand this. You're not all going to have the same level of fruitfulness. So you know what we shouldn't do? Wes, we shouldn't try to compare your fruitfulness to Jason's fruitfulness, to Melanie's fruitfulness, to my fruitfulness. You know why? Because our fruitfulness really wasn't up to us. It was up to God. Now, if I can take all of this parable and put it into a simple recipe for good soil, here's how I'm going to break this down. How do we become good soil? Or how do we check our friends who don't know Jesus yet? And hopefully you have a few of those. Because I'll say this. If we don't have friends who, or if we don't have any friends who don't know Jesus, we don't have any potentiality for sharing our faith. And that gets very hard the longer you've been a part of the Christian church. Because your social circles start becoming focused on church. And your activities start becoming focused on church. And we probably eat a lot at the same restaurants so people know that we go to church. We've got to create what they would call a target-rich environment. The way to have a target-rich environment is to make sure that a certain percentage of your friends are unchurchy people. And that's hard. Because you know what? Unchurchy people don't use vocabulary that I like. Unchurchy people do activities that I don't necessarily want to participate in. So yes, it does create a little bit of a challenge. Now I've got a great story and then I promise I'll end up because I'm long-winded. When I arrived last week, there was a letter that had been written to the church. It was sitting in my mailbox. Mark had put that article in the paper. And he'd asked me what I wanted to say. And so I typed up something and I emailed it to Mark. And one of the things that I love to do, I love to shoot pool. I just enjoy it. I enjoy the game of pool. Eight ball, nine ball, straight pool, cut throw, I don't care. Just give me a pool cue and a nice nine-foot green table and somebody to talk to. And I'm having a good day. And so I mentioned, in fact, I used to play in a competitive billiard league before I moved here. We had a church event one time where we went and shot some pool. And one of the guys in our church played in a league. His league needed a team member. I had the right skill set. And he's like, come and play with me. So I would spend my Thursday nights in a smoky, alcohol-filled bar talking theology while playing pool with a whole bunch of unsafe people. It was fun. It was a lot of fun. And I got all kinds of questions from Bible questions to God questions because I was able to use a skill that I have. I like playing pool. Well, this lady, her name's Sandy, Sandy and her husband Mac. They write me a little card. And it was here when I got here. It says, welcome to Gloucester. We saw on the paper that you like to play pool. We have a regulation pool table at our house. And you have a standing invitation. We have a game every Thursday. Come and play. So, absolutely. It's my first week in Gloucester. I don't have many friends yet, not counting y'all. So let's find out. So I go and I drive out this lady's house about 20 minutes from here. And no joke, they have a beautiful nine-foot Brunswick table in their face. Oh, it was great. Oh, man, it was great. If any of you play pool, you know you're not supposed to break with the same stick that you shoot with because the break puts way too much power on the cue. He had three or four just sticks just for breaking. And then he had the nice ones for shooting. And I went and it was her husband's name is Mac. And they brought a friend who doesn't go to church. And he got such a kick out of the fact that a minister would play pool, and not only play pool, but actually be mildly good. Obviously, this guy used to own a pool hall, so he's crazy good. But I can hold my own a little bit. And it's just a skill that I have that I enjoy using because it puts me in an environment where you don't expect to see, you're not expecting a whole lot of ministers to show up with a pool cue at the bar and be able to play and not get trounced out. And that's something that just the Lord has given me. I've always loved playing pool. And now I have a way to use it and use it for the gospel and be able to scatter seed in a place that maybe there's not a lot of people going to. There's not a lot of people carrying the gospel and apologetic theology to the billiard halls. Doesn't mean you can't do it. It just means that's one of those skills that God has given me. So here's the recipe for good soil. As I look over this entire parable and I break it down, how do we walk somebody through the steps in your life, maybe you've gotten caught up on one of these steps, or maybe you have someone in your life who we can walk through these steps. Step number one, all of them had to hear the gospel. All of them had to initially have the seed scattered to them. So step number one, we have to be able to hear the gospel. Then step two, in order to make it past the path, we have to understand the gospel. It's not just a matter of hearing it, but it's a matter of hearing it in a way that makes sense to me in my life and the way I am right now. Then if we understand the gospel, then we have two challenges getting our roots down. Number one, we have to learn how to deal with pressure and persecution. And number two, we have to learn how to be free from distractions of worry and money. So if we've heard the gospel, if we understand the gospel, then the next question is, how are you doing with persecution and pressure? And if you're doing good with that, then the next question, how am I doing with the distractions of worry and wealth? And you can make it past all of those steps. But if you don't have fruit, then you're still unfruitful. The final step for each of us, if you're here this morning and you have not made a decision to accept Christ as your Savior, that's great. Let's go get a coffee. Let's talk about it. It doesn't have to be embarrassing. It doesn't have to be weird. Let's talk about why I think having a relationship with Jesus is the most fantastic thing in the world. Why I think God's Word is true. I'd be happy to have that conversation any day and time. Because we need to be able to be fruitful. If we are going to see not just our church here grow, but if we are going to see the church as a whole grow, it will require the rest of us becoming farmers. And not just becoming farmers, but becoming smart farmers. We need to become, because like we said in the beginning, if you knew that the seed would not grow on the rocky path, would you have intentionally sown it there? No. You want the wind. You want to sow the seed in the good soil. But let me ask you this. If you knew that you could help somebody grow roots and make it past the rocky places, if you could help somebody make it past the worry and the deceitfulness of life and make it past the thorns, then doesn't that mean that any soil could be good soil? If we sow it right, if we are paying attention to the kind of people that God has put in our life? That's what I want to challenge you with this morning. We have a responsibility. In fact, I shared on Facebook a quote by the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King from his letter at the Birmingham jail. And he said that if the church does not rekindle the spirit of the early church, that we are quickly going to lose, I think it was, to lose the credibility of millions and become a social club with no meaning. And he said that in like 1965. He said that if the church does not rekindle the passion of the early church, where each member was a minister, where each person was a farmer, each person scattered seed for themselves, if we don't rekindle that passion, we will not make it past the new cultural wave that's going to be here on our doorstep in 25 years. And then there's the other side of it. Maybe you're the soil that hasn't accepted the seed yet. I always want to give credit when every time a church comes together, maybe there's somebody that's just been hiding the rocks. There could be somebody in this room right now that's gone to church, that you know the church lingo, that you know the church songs, you know how to fit in, you know everybody's name, but your roots never made it past the rocks. If that's you this morning, I want to ask you to take that step. I want to ask you to ask God to help you push past the worry, push past the deceitfulness of wealth, push past the, well, you know, I work in a really secular environment, and I don't know how, I can't be a Bible thumper at work. I understand that. I'm not asking you to not have manners and social decorum. I'm asking you, what's your eternity based on? I used to say as a youth pastor when I was challenging teenagers, I think, honestly, I think teenagers in public school have one of the most challenging positions in order to be faithful. Because, like, number one, you couldn't pay me enough money to go back and be a teenager, okay? There's not enough money on the planet that you could pay me to go back to that season of my life. But our American culture is shifting farther away from biblical values. You're not going to grab that ship and turn it back. That's not the way we're going to win this fight. You're never going to get to the helm of all of American culture and point it all the way back to the Bible. But you don't have to. That's what's so great. We don't have to turn the ship. All we have to do is plant the seeds and the lives of the people that God has put us near. And slowly and exponentially, faith goes from person to person to person. That's the parable of the Sower. Remember in chapter 12, the Pharisees had said, nope, you're not our Messiah. And then Jesus says, fine, you know what the kingdom of God is like? The kingdom of God is like all of us taking the message to those in our lives.