I enjoy teaching in series because it allows us more time to get into and stay in depth in a given topic or area. And the Encountering Jesus series is meant to look at moments when the Savior taught an individual person. Mr. Pete, a one-on-one encounter. Yes, He taught the Sermon on the Mount. Yes, He taught large people in the temple and in the synagogue. But then, Ms. Nancy, there are these moments. There are these personal moments that the Savior has. And they're so pointful for us to look at because He's still a personal Savior today. He's still a personal Savior with us. So if you brought your Bibles with you, whether they be physical or digital, please turn or click with me to the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew is easy to find. It's the first book in the New Testament. The Gospel of Matthew we're going to be reading from chapter 8. So Matthew chapter 8, we're going to read verses 5 through verse 13. So that's Matthew chapter 8, 5 to 13. I will say up front, this is one of my favorite stories. This was one of the few sermons that I heard, Mr. Aiden, when I was your age in the beginning of my youth group years. We had a youth pastor at the Baptist Church that my family and I attended. And he preached a sermon on this specific passage we're about to read. And whilst I could not probably tell you the main point of that sermon, the character of the Roman centurion was burned into my mind from that point on. And it has always been a story that I have enjoyed studying. So we're going to read Matthew chapter 8, verses 5 through 13. I'll read it for you in the New International Version. Here's how it reads. The servant lies at home, paralyzed, suffering terribly. Jesus said to him, shall I come and heal him? The centurion replied, Lord, I do not deserve to have you come under my roof. But just say the word and my servant will be healed. For I myself am a man under authority with soldiers under me. I tell this one, go, and he goes. I tell that one, come, and he comes. I say to my servant, do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard this, he was amazed. And he said to those following him, Truly I tell you, I have not found anyone in Israel with such great faith. I say to you, many will come from the east and west, and will take their places at the feast with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. But the subjects of the kingdom will be thrown outside into the darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Then Jesus said to the centurion, Go, let it be done as you believed it would. And his servant was healed at that moment. There's a couple of things I like about this story. Number one, I love that the primary character who approaches Jesus is a soldier. So let's first talk about what is a centurion. A centurion is a member of the Roman military. He is called centurion because he is in charge of, anybody want to guess how many people? A hundred, there we go. You know your history or you know your Latin. Either way, good guess. He's in charge of a hundred men. One of these centurions plus 59 others, so what's a hundred now times 60? How much is that? Six thousand. That's a Roman legion. So this centurion is in charge of one sixtieth of a legion. He's in charge of one hundred men, and then there are 60 of these one hundred men units in a Roman legion. I texted and called several of my friends who are currently serving in various armed forces, and the best that they could tell me based on my description is this would be somewhat equal to a company commander in the army, give or take the rank of captain. Did I sound about right Jason? Give or take the rank of captain. He's got enough authority that obviously he's over a significant amount of people, but he doesn't have so much authority that he's over everybody. He's right there in the middle management if you will. He has to understand how to utilize authority as well as accept authority. So my first point that I want to share with you this morning comes out of verse five. I want you to see that the centurion approaching Jesus is a good person. In verse five, when Jesus had entered Capernaum, now my Wednesday night people, what country is Capernaum in? I'll give you a hint, it's the top of the snowman. Galilee. That's right. That's right. On Wednesdays we have been each week building a map so that mentally we have an idea of where all these cities are. Capernaum is in the country of Galilee. It is also next to a body of water. Anybody want to guess what the water is? The Sea of Galilee. That's a great guess. Capernaum is a port city on the Sea of Galilee in the country of Galilee. Why is that important? Because when you know that the city is a port city, it's a much more hustle and bustle city than say Nazareth, which is on the south side of the Galilean wilderness. Capernaum is a hustling and bustling port city. It is a center of trade. It is a center of commerce. It is the Richmond to Nazareth's Gloucester, to put it in perspective for you. It is the Richmond to Nazareth's Gloucester. And so for a Roman centurion to be in a Galilean port city is not unexpected. It's not unheard of. Now at the time of this happening, Galilee is not under direct Roman occupation like Judea is, but the Romans are still in charge of everything. So it's not uncommon or out of place to see a Roman centurion in Capernaum. And he comes up to Jesus and he asks for help. Now for those of you who like your note taking and your cross referencing, please write down Luke 7, verses 4 and 5. See, Luke also has a version of this story. And in Luke's version, in verses 4 and 5, we're given an additional detail that Matthew chooses not to add to the story. This does not mean that the two gospels are in conflict with one another. It just means that Matthew and Luke are telling the same story from two different perspectives. In Luke's version, if you look in chapter 7, verses 4 and 5, you will see that before the centurion spoke to Jesus directly, he sent intermediaries. And some of those intermediaries were Jewish men. And they told the Savior, they said, Messiah, you should do this for him, because he is a good man and he has helped build our local synagogue. Now that gives an additional understanding of the centurion's character that Matthew did not need for the point that he was trying to make. So when you look at the Luke edition or the Luke side of the story, we learn something else about the centurion that I want you to see this morning. And that is, even though as a Roman, he's a pagan, he is not a Jew, he is a Gentile, he helped build a Jewish local house of teaching. What does that tell you about his character? He's a good man. Either that or he's a master manipulator and he understands that building a church builds a lot of goodwill. So if he's a politician, maybe, but he's in the military, so I'll say not. And he finally approaches the Savior, and at the end of verse 5, he says, asking for help. Now that's the opening setting to our story. Miss Ilona, here is a Roman military commander up well north of Rome in Galilee in a port city of commerce, approaching a somewhat known Galilean healer. Because keep in mind, we're only in Matthew chapter 8. Matthew's gospel is just beginning to unfold the ministry of Jesus, and we have a Roman military official approaching a little known or somewhat known Galilean Hebrew healer asking for help. Second, I want you to see in verse 6 that the centurion cared for other people. Not only did he build the synagogue that we see in Luke, but in verse 8, no, excuse me, yeah, verse 6, Verse 6, A few things I want you to see here. First, the word Lord in the beginning of verse 6, the Greek word there is kurios. Kurios. And it literally means, Mr. Charles, to address one who has decision-making authority over you. So if I am addressing Mr. Charles, and I use the word kurios, what I am saying to him is, sir, I recognize you have decision-making authority over my life. That word kurios can also be master. That word kurios can also be my liege. There are several ways that that word could be in English, but what it specifically means is I recognize, Zach, you have authority over me. And so I'm going to say, like, sir, in the military we dress officers as sir. You use that as a term of what? Not only respect, but recognizing the higher rank of authority in the nature of our relationship. Interesting that a military man whose job involves authority chooses a word like kurios to address the Savior. And then he says this, my servant lies at home paralyzed. So who exactly is the centurion asking Jesus to heal? His servant. Not himself. Unlike the woman with the issue of blood, unlike the Canaanite woman who came and asked for her daughter, this is not a family member. And that's very important because John's Gospel has a recording of another Roman military man coming to Jesus. They are not the same because in John he specifically talks about his son. Here it specifically refers to a non-relative servant in the household. So there are two separate stories here. So the centurion not only cares enough for other people that he builds a local house of worship, but in verse 6 he comes and now he's not only asking, but look at the description he gives at the end of verse 6. He's concerned enough with the state of his servant's health to give additional – he could have just said, my servant's at home sick. Can you heal him? He's from southern Rome. That's right, he's from southern Galilee. Hey Jesus, my servant is at home sick. Could you heal him? But he doesn't say that. He says, my servant lies at home. And now we're going to get detailed. He's paralyzed. He can't walk. He does not have use of his limbs. And not only is he paralyzed, he could have stopped there. He's paralyzed and he is suffering terribly. Now that word paralyzed means – same thing it means in English – the inability to control one's limbs. But interesting, the word suffering – does everybody remember the week we looked at the gathering? The demonic? And he said that he was tormented. Same Greek word that the centurion is using here. Tormented, suffering. It's actually two English translations of the same exact Greek word. He's describing that the paralysis that his servant has does not merely just take away his ability to walk, but it also instills a significant amount of suffering or torture or pain. This means that the centurion is not only aware of the physical state of his servant, he is aware of how that physical state affects him. He's not only saying he's paralyzed, he's paralyzed and he's suffering terribly. Now we don't know what the relationship is that the centurion has with this specific servant, but I can tell you that if you're going to give me this much detail, you care about whoever this is. It may not be your son. It may not be your nephew. It may not be your neighbor. But I guarantee you, you care about who it is because you've given me a significant amount of detail in verse six. And then in verse seven, Jesus responds, Shall I come to heal him? You sort of missed something in the English here. Miss Jeannie, what it really should say is, Shall I, a Jew, come heal him, a Gentile? Why is that significant? Because at this time, Jews did not go inside Roman homes. They considered it to be a cause for ceremonially uncleanness if I, a Jew, were to entile, to enter the home, I just made a conjunction right there on the spot, if I were to enter the home of a Gentile. Now interestingly, that's not in the law. Go back and you can look at the whole Old Testament. We have it for us today. There's nowhere in there. But they added all these additional traditions. And so the Pharisees would not go into the home of a Gentile because they were afraid it would affect their ceremonial cleanliness. Next thing I want to point out, the centurion is incredibly humble but confident when he speaks to the Savior. Take a look at verse eight. The centurion replied, Lord, there's Coriost again. I recognize you have decision-making authority over me. And here he says, I do not deserve. I do not deserve to have you come under my roof. Now, number one, he would be aware of the cultural significance of a Jew going into a Gentile home. He's saying, Lord, I don't deserve for you to have to come under my roof and therefore accept that ceremonial uncleanliness. I'm not worth that. I do not deserve that, an incredible amount of humility. And remember, this man is used to being in charge of a hundred armed soldiers. This is not just some random, very, very introverted pencil pusher behind a desk that hides behind a computer screen. This is a military commander in charge of a hundred well-armed, trained men. He knows how to assert authority. And he says, I do not deserve to have you come under my roof. But, best four words in the whole verse. Just say the word. Just say the word. In the military, when a person of authority issues a statement that tells someone to do something, what is that called? An order or a command, correct. Order or command. When a military person uses the authority of his position and issues a declarative statement that is to be followed out by subordinates, we generally call that issuing an order. That is what he's saying here to Jesus. He's saying, Lord, I do not deserve to have you come under my roof. Just give the order. Just say the word. Just give the order and my servant will be healed. And then in verse nine, he explains what he means by that. For I myself am a man under authority. He's only one-sixtieth of the Roman legion. And of the legions there were many. So he's not without commanders above his own ranking. He's also not without men at his same ranking either. But that's a whole other sermon for a whole other day. I am a man under authority with soldiers under me. And then he says three things. Go and he goes. Come and he comes. Do and he does. Go and he go. Come and he come. Do and he does. What does all of that mean? He's making the correlation here between an order becoming an action. He is very familiar as a military man. Very familiar with the concept that when a person of authority issues an order, that order becomes action. Generally quite quickly. Generally when a commanding officer issues an order, there's not a waiting time. There's not a let me think about it for a minute. There's not a let me check my Facebook poll and see how people feel about that. Generally when a person of authority in the military issues an order, that order is understood to be declarative and to become an action. That's what he points out here in verse 9. I tell one go and he goes. I tell one come and he comes. I tell one do and do this. He recognizes not only that Christ has authority, but that with that authority Christ doesn't have to go to the house. All he has to do is give the order. Because this man is very intimately familiar with that relationship between the issuing of an order and the returning of that order as an action. Then we move to verse 10. Jesus teaches us that the centurion's faith is exemplary. The centurion's faith is exemplary. So not only is, if we go all the way back to verse 5, the centurion's a good person because he built synagogues we see in Luke. The centurion cares very deeply for other people. We saw that in verse 6. The centurion has a certain amount of humility and confidence in front of the Savior, 8 and 9. But then we get to verse 10 and Jesus uses this same centurion as an example of faith. Look at verse 10. When Jesus heard this, meaning the centurion's explanation of order turns into action, he was amazed and said to those following him. So even though the centurion is speaking directly to Jesus, who's Jesus talking to in verse 10? Who's he speaking to? His disciples and by proxy the crowd who's following him. I heard the word crowd too. That's correct. Those he is teaching. The centurion came to him, but Jesus takes this moment to turn it and use it to teach his followers, i.e. his disciples and the crowd. That's both correct. When he heard this he says what? Truly I tell you I have not found anyone in Israel with such great faith. Now remember when we started out the story we described who the centurion is. Is the centurion a Jew? No, he is not. He's a Roman. That means he's a Gentile. And yet here the Messiah is saying that this Roman, Gentile, pagan, military oppressor, because the Romans were oppressing the Jews at the time, they were running their country. This Roman, pagan, Gentile, military oppressor has better or greater faith than all y'all combined. Just hear that for a minute. How do you think his majority Jewish crowd heard the comment, if I were to say to you, and let's just put it in modern terms, Here we are, we're all Christians, we love Jesus, we're all saved. And I invite my friend who just got out on parole to come and sit up here in the front with me. And I say here's my friend Johnny, and Johnny's out on parole and I brought him to church with me today and I just need to let you know that Johnny has more faith than all y'all church folk. You'd look at me like I had something very odd for breakfast. You'd look at me like I was weird. Why? Because you're expecting that you're the good religious crowd and Johnny's on parole is less religious than you. Your sense of expectation is set that you're the good guy and he's not. That's exactly how they felt. The Roman centurion is a military person who's occupying the nation of the Jews. Why does Jesus point out here that the one pagan guy has more faith than the entire, and look at Jesus' words here in verse 10, than anyone, anyone in Israel. This one military pagan man has greater faith than anyone in Israel. Now that's also, you can even take it a step further, if you consider the reality that the nation of Israel is where faith in God started. Go all the way back to Genesis, Abraham, I will be your God and you will be my people. It's always been God and the Jews. It's always been I am your God and you are my people. All the way through the Old Testament you get to Saul and David and they asked for a king. They weren't supposed to have a king, but God said, okay, fine, I'll give you what you want, but guess what? Samuel delivered that prophecy. He's eventually going to put your men and women to work. He's eventually going to tax your money. He did that, followed through the rest of the Old Testament. Prophets show up, in come several kingdoms. They get put into bondage, into slavery, Daniel to Lion's Den. Ultimately by the end of the Old Testament they're back. And then in the New Testament he showed up the Romans again. It's always been God and his people, Jehovah and the Hebrews. The nation of Israel is where the relationship with God, the true one true triune God started. And here's one pagan guy and Jesus says he's got more faith than all y'all. That's the new international builders right there, all y'all. The plural of y'all, all y'all. And then look at 11. This is really going to grate the nerves of his primarily Jewish audience. In verse 11, I say to you that many will come from the east and the west. Who are the people coming from the east and the west? Think about it. If Jesus is addressing a primarily Jewish audience and he's saying this one pagan has more faith than all of you, then who are the people from the east and the west? Gentiles, absolutely correct. So in verse 11, I say to you that many who will come from the east or the west, meaning Gentiles, will take their places at the feast with Abraham. Now, if Jesus is going to drop the A word, Abraham, it's a big deal when talking to a Jewish audience. Who is Abraham? Go all the way back to the book of Genesis. Abraham is the beginning of the Hebrew nation. In fact, in Genesis we find out Abraham is the first man to be called a Hebrew. He started Starbucks. Sorry, someone bought me a coffee yesterday, and so I've had Starbucks on the brain. Abraham is the first man to be called a Hebrew. He's the first man to receive the covenant with God that you will be my God and I will be your people and your descendants will be more than the sands on the seashore. And here in verse 11, the Savior is telling his primarily Jewish audience that there will be Gentiles at the feast with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. Now, for those of you who are unfamiliar with the lineage that comes from the book of Genesis, Abraham was the father of Isaac. Isaac was the father of Jacob. If you go back and you read the middle third of the book of Genesis, what you will see is that God restated His covenant with all three of those men. He gave the covenant to Abraham. He did not create a new covenant, but he repeated it to Abraham's son, Isaac. He repeated it again to Isaac's son, Jacob. And then he changed Jacob's name to Israel. And then Israel had 12 sons. That gets us to the story of Joseph, and that's where the book of Genesis closes out. So when Jesus says here that Gentiles will be at the feast with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, He is unequivocally telling His Jewish audience there will be Gentiles in your heavenly kingdom. This does not go over nicely with a primarily Jewish audience in this day, because they're convinced, guys, I'm God's people. I was born into it. The rest of you all are going to hell. Why? Because you weren't born into our lineage as God's chosen people. And Jesus takes this moment to go, you guys aren't seeing it. You guys aren't seeing it. Let me show you. This man right here, this pagan military commander, has more faith than the rest of you all have. And then in verse 12, but the subjects of the kingdom. So if the folk from the east and the west are the Gentiles, who are the subjects of the kingdom? Yes. Specifically what, though? Jews who do not accept Christ as their Savior. That's what he's saying here in verse 11. No, verse 11, many will come from the east and the west. Verse 12, but the subjects of the kingdom, meaning Jews who do not come to saving knowledge of Christ, the subjects of the kingdom will be thrown outside into darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. What is darkness? Darkness by definition is the absence of light or God. Light or God, that's absolutely correct. Did you realize in modern physics there is no definition for dark? You cannot measure darkness at all. What can you measure? Light. You can measure light, you can't actually measure darkness. Darkness by definition is the absence of light. While the same is true, you can't really measure sin, you can only measure the absence of God. God, Jesus said, I am the light of the world. Darkness symbolically shows the complete absence from God. Weeping and gnashing of teeth, that's a biblical phrase that is used often to refer to hell itself, the eternal absence from the presence of God. So if you look at verses 10, 11, and 12 as a whole, Jesus is dropping some serious knowledge on this Galilean audience, and he's using this Roman centurion to do it. He's saying this one military man has such great faith that he's going to be at that promised feast. Now, for those who are asking what feast is it, it is the actual wedding feast of the Lamb in Revelation 17. If we follow the whole biblical story, Jesus came during the Gospels, he sacrificed himself on the cross, he died, he resurrected, he then taught for 40 more days after his resurrection, so from Easter Sunday to the day of the ascension, he then went into heaven. What did he say? I go to prepare a place for you, for were not so I would have told you. And what? I'm coming back. I'll be back. That's the Arnold impression, but I cannot do a good one. Then what happens? In the book of Revelation, Jesus comes back, he calls his church to him, and we get to go to heaven, and then there is a true wedding feast with the Savior and his bride. Who is the bride? The Church of Jesus Christ. That's the actual feast that Jesus is talking about, and his Jewish audience would have known it, but they were wrong about one thing. They were assuming that anybody who is a genetic descendant of Abraham would have been at the feast. They didn't realize that the Kingdom of God, the true heavenly Kingdom of God, is a Kingdom of faith, not lineage. And Jesus chooses this moment with the Roman centurion to point this out, and then look at verse 13, the centurion received the reward for his faith. Then Jesus said to the centurion, Go. I love that he uses the same exact example that the centurion just gave to him. He said, I tell a servant, go, and he goes. And it was the first thing Jesus says, go. Go and let it be done as you believed it would. And his servant was healed at that very moment. Think about what the centurion said to the Savior. He said, you don't have to come to my house. Just give the order. Meaning, I recognize your authority is so great. I recognize your authority to have decision power in my life is so great that all you have to do is give the order. And by the time I get home, it will already be done. Because that's how much I believe in you. That's an incredible amount of faith. Even today, sometimes when you pray for people to be healed, or you pray for people to be delivered from a circumstance, you pray, but sometimes we hedge our bets and we go, Lord, if it be your will, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. You know what I mean? Now, is that a bad prayer? No, it's not. But we're pulling back just enough because we truly don't know the will of God. At least, he does not fax it to me on a regular basis. If you get that email, if you could forward it to me, I'd appreciate it. The Roman Centurion illustrates a level of faith that all of Israel didn't have. And the real question that I want to pose to you this morning is why. Why did no one in Israel have the faith of the one Centurion? I submit to you it's because they had a wrong mentality. Their faith was hindered because of their mentality. Miss Fran, they were convinced that they were the people of God because of their lineage, not because of their faith. And Jesus chooses the Roman Centurion to point out and say, Whoa, guys, you're missing the point. It's not who your granddaddy's granddaddy's grandmama's granddaddy was. It's your faith. It's your belief in what I can do. The fact that you just said, give an order, and by the time I get home, it'll be done. And that's exactly what happened to the Roman Centurion. It said he was healed at that moment. If you look at the other version of the story, the servants came out to meet him. Why? Because it was immediate. Because when Jesus gave, just like the Roman Centurion expected, Jesus gives an order, it's done. It might not be done in the time I get to see it, but that doesn't mean it's not done. So how do we take the lesson of the Roman Centurion today? Here's my question for you. What does your faith rest on? Are you a Christian because you were born into a Christian family? I am. I was born into a Christian family. I grew up going to church every Sunday and every Wednesday, and every Saturday and every Thursday, and every bake sale, and every youth event. I went to church all the time. I grew up learning the lingo of the church. I grew up learning. We even have a term for it now. They call it Christianese. There's whole websites out there that just have Christian jokes that if you're not a Christian and you don't understand our basic tribal knowledge, you don't understand the joke. I grew up with all of that. And I grew up believing that that's what made me a good Christian, was I knew the right terms, and I know the right stories. And the Lord has blessed me with an ability to memorize and remember lots of random stuff and facts and all that stuff. And I grew up believing that I was a good Christian because I did what my parents did. And then if I was just like these Jews, I was just like the Jews that Jesus is addressing today, I found the strength of my faith in my lineage, not in the actual activity of my faith. So as you sit here this morning, that's my question for you. Are you here this morning because you're just used to going to church on Sundays? If you are, thanks. Good job. Now we need to work with that. We need to take it the next step. Being a Christian is not where you go on Sundays. It's how you live every day that ends in Y. Do you live as, and I'll say this, I'm on a roll, I'm in a good mood now. Do you want Jesus as your Savior, but forget He's also your Lord? Here's a soap box we can take as a whole other sermon. Everybody wants the Jesus that saves from hell, but nobody wants to really embrace the Jesus that tells you how to live all of the rest of the days that you're avoiding hell. The point of salvation is not to just change your eternity, it's to change your now-ity too. Salvation should change tomorrow, not just eternity. That's what He's trying to tell the Jews. Guys, it's not about how you grew up, good or bad. Let me point that out. For those of you who may not have grown up inside the walls of the Christian church, for those of you who do not get all the Christian Bible references, it's taken me a long time to realize that when I have to teach on a Sunday morning, I have to bet that there's one person in the room who's never read the book of Genesis. Because when I'm at my church in Florida, I mentioned the story of Moses, and somebody came up to me after church and he meant, is that like the same one that Christian Bell was in the movie? Had never heard the biblical story of Moses in her life. Twenty-five, growing up in our country, her whole life, had never heard the true biblical story of Moses. She's only ever seen the movies, the Prince of Egypt and then the Exodus, Gods and Kings. That's all she knew of the story of Moses. Now, some of us have been blessed to grow up inside the walls of the Christian church. That can also be a detriment. You can almost wear in a nice little comfortable path from your parking spot to your pew, back to your parking spot to lunch, and then by Monday morning when you get up, faith is no longer an aspect of your decision-making. It's just, oh, that's what I do on Sunday. I go to Reedswood because I'm a Christian. Now, if you're a Christian, that means you should be a Christian on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday.