our December Christmas teaching series entitled According to the Angels. Now, if you were not here last week when we kicked it off, I admit it and I'll admit it again. Preaching in December, Mr. Don, is always the most challenging sermon series of the year. Because you guys have all read the passages. You know all the stories I'm going to bring up. It's not like there's another book in the New Testament where I can pull out some new information about the Christmas story that those of you who may be regular church attenders don't know. You already know the story. So my challenge as a Sunday morning communicator is to try to bring you this story in a fresh light and hopefully teach you something new that you haven't maybe heard before. So this is my attempt at it this year. According to the angels, rather than look at the people of the story, I want to focus in on the four angelic messages that happened at the beginning of the New Testament. Last week we looked at the angels' message to who? Zechariah. The angels' message to Zechariah, proclaiming the birth of who? John the Baptist. That's right. And so this week I'd like to ask you to turn your Bibles with me to the book of Luke. The book of Luke, Matthew, Mark, Luke, the third book in the New Testament, chapter 1. So that should be really easy to find. Once you find Luke, you're in chapter 1. But this morning we're going to read verses 26 to 38. Luke chapter 1, verses 26 to 38. While you're finding that, let me give you the key thought for the series. Christmas is the time to remember God fulfilling His promises to mankind in the coming of Jesus, the Savior King. Whenever you read the New Testament, you must remember, Richard, the New Testament doesn't happen in a vacuum. It's not like we had the story of Jesus, and then we went back and we wrote the Old Testament as a prequel, and we created characters like Moses and David and Joshua. No, all of the Old Testament had already happened, and there was a significant amount of waiting. We talked about that last week. So as we examine the Christmas story, you have to remember the context is everything that has come before it. Now the title of our message this morning is According to the Angels, Mary. And we're going to pick up our reading in Luke chapter 1, starting in verse 26. And Mr. Zachary has it here for you. I'll try to find somewhere I can stand. I'm not blocking everybody's view. Zachary has it on the screen for you here in the NIV, for the New International Version. So here's Luke 1, 26-38 in the NIV. Now Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you want to call him Jesus. He will be great and will be called Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his Father, He will reign over Jacob's descendants forever. His kingdom will never end. How will this be? Mary asked the angel. Since I am a virgin. The angel answered, The Holy Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her womb. She's going to have a child in her old age. And she who is said to be unable to conceive is in her sixth month. For no word from God will ever fail. I am the Lord's servant, Mary answered. May your word to me be fulfilled. Then the angel left her. Now this is a more typical Christmas story that we're used to hearing as part of the Christmas story. If you're ever looking for the Christmas story in the Bible, you need to look in two separate places. The Christmas story as we know it, the nativity that we put together with the shepherds and the wise men and Mary and Joseph and the Christ child, that is an amalgamation of Luke and Matthew. So if you go to Luke, you'll find part of the story. If you go to Matthew, you'll find another part of the story. I don't have the time this morning to explain why that is. Just trust me, I promise it's all there. It's in black and white and you can read it. So what I want to do is I want to go back through this passage and sort of point out a few things that I think are pointful to helping us really understand the angelic message. So the first point this morning is this. The person and place of this angelic message is very unexpected. The person and place is very unexpected. So first let's look. In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy. So how much older is John the Baptist than Jesus? A minimum of six months, right. We don't know for sure that Mary was impregnated by the Holy Spirit at exactly this exact moment. But you know if Elizabeth is already six months pregnant, John the Baptist is at minimum six months the elder to Jesus. In the six month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, God sent the angel, Gabriel, we get the name again, same angel who spoke to Zechariah six months ago, to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph. There are so many details in here. I've got to take it bit by bit. First, God sent the angel Gabriel. He is the same angel who spoke to Zechariah about the birth of John the Baptist. He is likely the same angel that appeared to the shepherds. He is clearly the angel who delivers God's messages. When we see Gabriel in scripture, Old Testament and New Testament, he is a messenger or a message deliverer. Then he sends him to Nazareth, a town in Galilee. Now this is where you are going to have to understand a little bit more of first century Galilean geography. Nazareth is in Galilee. Everybody got that, right? That was in the text. That was the easy one. You also have to understand Nazareth is an incredibly small, seemingly insignificant rural town. If Washington, D.C., Baltimore was Capernaum, Gloucester might be even really bigger than what Nazareth is. What is the absolute smallest little, like there is not even a stoplight in the town near here? Matthew's. So I need you to picture that when you see Nazareth. Nazareth likely only had about 400 people living in it at one time. They are all rural. They are all blue collar. They are all shepherds. I know we romanticize the concept of a shepherd because of their involvement in the Christmas story. But what I need you to understand here is that the Lord God, the Creator of heaven and earth sends an angelic messenger to the backwoods to find the one girl who has been chosen. This was not the popular metropolis of its day. He is pulling Country Mary from the backwoods to birth the Son of God. It is not expected. You would expect, Kim, let's go to Jerusalem. Let's go find the daughter of some high priest. Let's go find the daughter of a scholar. Some Old Testament Pharisee who has got all of this good super religious juice running in her veins. No! The angel Gabriel went to the country to find Mary. Hey Mary, you are going to have a baby. She is going to be the Son of God. This is not the triumphant entry that you expect for the Son of God. I want you to see that Mary she is a popular character to us because we are used to the Christmas story. But in the cultural setting Mary is the obscure choice from some obscure town in the backwoods of Galilee that were mostly farmers and shepherds. And yet this is the King of Kings we are talking about. This is the Son of God. Mary and the setting in Nazareth are an unexpected idea. Town in Galilee to a virgin town in Galilee to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph. Now I also need to make sure when we talk about this term pledge to be married that we all understand what first century Jewish matrimony is like. So let's say for instance, I don't know we happen to have a young lady in the congregation this morning who might have gotten engaged maybe recently I don't have a ring that I could show everybody there it is. You don't have to take it off just wave it and be happy. So those of you who don't know this is Aaron. Aaron just got engaged. Everybody say yay Aaron! Alright, see? In our modern day culture boy meets girl boy falls in love with girl boy spends more than he can afford on ring because girls worth it gives the ring to the girl they are married and then there is this period of engagement and then marriage and then we live together. It's a little bit more detailed in the first century. So this is how it happens. In the first century a young man who found a woman that he wanted to marry would first go to his father and say daddy I like that girl right there she's special I want to marry her and the father of the groom would then go and speak to the father of the bride and the father to father they would broker a business arrangement because you have to remember in the first century almost all families owned businesses whether you were a sheep herder or whether you were a farmer or whether you were a textile manufacturer or whether you were a levite every family had or carpenter every family had a business. So when I take your daughter away from your family you're not just losing your daughter you're losing a very trusted employee. And so if I were the father of the groom and I were to come to Mr. Pete who is the father of the bride he and I would strike a bargain and I don't mean this in an insulting way but what is it worth to you for me to have the privilege of my son marrying your daughter? It's not like hey how much she calls? No. What is your daughter worth that I could have her for the privilege of being the bride for my son? So I don't want you to think ladies that we're auctioning you like cattle. That's not it at all. This is a privilege but in order and even today what do young men have to do in order to ask young women to be culturally appropriate and ask to marry a young woman? Who do they have to call first? Her dad. Gentlemen do that. Please Shane. Not tomorrow. Definitely not tomorrow. Don't freak your momma out. But when that day comes make that phone call because I can tell you you will look back on it when you're my age and that will be a moment of pride. I'm scared out of my mind Ms. Lisa. That day you never met my father-in-law but he is big. Four or five inches taller than me. Three or four inches broader than me. I mean he is an incredibly muscular man. All bald, incredibly intimidating. So for me to call him Mr. Don it was a scary moment. Once the contract is brokered there would be a small ceremony between the man and the woman and at that point they are considered betrothed. This is really more than modern engagement. At this moment they are considered husband and wife. However, they are not permitted to have all the privileges that husband and wives have. His daughter still lives at home with him. My son comes home with me and me and my son build the home for him to bring his daughter to. And it's not until the home is prepared that we would come back. We would have the final wedding ceremony i.e. the wedding at Cana. Week long celebration. And then I get to take, or my son gets to take his daughter finally home to their village. That's what's happening all in this. Pledged to be married. Joseph has already brokered a deal with Mary's father. That's why he's not mentioned. Because she has already, in fact it's called the mohar or the bride price has been paid for the privilege of marrying the young lady. She belongs to Joseph. She is Joseph's wife. Mr. Jason not with all the privileges that come with being a wife yet. They're not living together yet but she is going with him at this moment. And notice we get one additional detail from Joseph. The descendant of David. This is going to become incredibly important in the next point. Because in order to fulfill the Davidic covenant, remember there was a promise given to a man named King David that there would be a forever king to come from your line. In order to be a true fulfillment Jesus doesn't just have to be a biological descendant of David. He has to be a legal descendant of David. There are people, I mean there are people when you think about the royal line in England for instance, there's plenty of biological descendants of the current queen. But there's only one that's the legal heir. The next in line. In order for Jesus to fulfill the Davidic covenant he not only had to be the biological descendant, he had to be the legal descendant. And legal descendancy comes from the father, not the mother. So even though Joseph was not the biological father of Jesus Christ, he passed the legal lineage, the legal descendancy in order to fulfill the next point. So let's take a look. God's grace is again coming to his people. Luke 1 28-30. The angel went to her and said, greetings, you are highly favored. Now I need to take a moment and address an issue here that always comes up at Christmas time. You are highly favored. My Catholic brothers and sisters would say, Mary full of grace. Which is how the prayer goes. This is generally where they find that. That doesn't actually say Mary's full of grace. It says, God's grace has been rested on Mary. The original Greek word right there for highly favored is actually grace. You can find it in Ephesians chapter 1 verse 6, referring to the grace that God gives the whole church. So the angel Gabriel is not worshiping Mary as a deity in this verse. He is saying, greetings, you who are highly favored or you on whom God has given grace, the Lord is with you. So please don't misinterpret this passage. The angel Gabriel is not worshiping Mary. Mary is not being venerated in this passage. The angel Gabriel is pointing out, the Lord has chosen Mary. And because the Lord has chosen her, He has put grace on her to do something. This is not the veneration of Mary. This is merely pointing out where does grace truly come from. It comes from God. The Lord is with you. And Mary was greatly troubled with these words and wondered what kind of greeting, or what this kind of greeting might be. Remember the history we talked about last week? How many years of silence between Malachi and Matthew? 400 years. And who is the first person that the angel Gabriel spoke to? Zechariah. And where was Zechariah when that happened? In the temple. And was he alone? Yes. So, so far, up until this point in redemptive history, even though the silence of the Old Testament is over, one angel spoke to one dude in a room all by himself. The likelihood that Mary would have heard that story by this point is slim to none. Now, all of a sudden, you are a young, Bill, you're a young 15 year old girl. Don't you feel great about that? Yeah, I mean, it's fantastic. You're a young 15 year old girl living in the backwoods of Galilee. And an angel appears to you. You've got the same thing that you have with Zechariah. God has been silent for so long. His people have been faithful, but have not experienced the tangible spiritual reality of Jehovah God. All of a sudden, now here's an angel speaking to the girl in the backwoods. And he asks, no, no, no, go back one. Okay, well don't slip. Do not be afraid. Again, I told you, every time you look at an angelic message, what is it we're saying? Hey, hey, don't be afraid, man. It's all good. It's all good. Don't be afraid. Because again, when you look at it in context, Mary's the obscure choice here. Mary is not the like, she's not even in the temple like Zechariah was. I mean, Zechariah was in front of the altar of incense. That's an incredibly religious setting for an angel to appear. Mary's washing dishes at home. Mary's just doing her own thing. And yet, Jason, an angel interjects because she is the chosen vessel. She is highly favored. God's grace is now once again breaking through that silence, breaking through that barrier, and beginning to rest on his people. Now take me forward. The forever king, and that's in quotes, that's a super important term, forever king. The forever king is coming to Israel, 31-33. You will conceive and give birth to a son. You are to call him Jesus. Now, let's address the elephant in the room. Jesus' name was not actually Jesus. Okay? Jesus' name was not actually Jesus. Jesus is an English word. Jesus was Hebrew. As Mr. Josh just illustrated, Jesus' real name, his name given in the Hebrew language would have been Yeshua. Yeshua is technically a shortened version of Yehoshua, just like we would take Michael and turn it into Mike. So Yeshua is Jesus' actual Hebrew name. Now, does that mean it is disrespectful to call him Jesus? No. Inasmuch as if I have a friend named Jose, it's not disrespectful to call him John. John is the English translation of Jose. So how did we get to the name Jesus? Because if you take Yeshua and bring it straight from Hebrew into English, does anybody know what it is? Joshua. That's exactly what it is. If you take Yeshua and translate it straight from Hebrew into English, you end up at Joshua. Yet we call the Savior Jesus. Here's why. Because we didn't take it straight from Hebrew to English. We took it from Hebrew, Mr. Jason, we went into the Greek. And when we translate from Hebrew to Greek, we get Iesous. And that's how we translate Greek into English, and we get Jesus. Now we call him Jesus Christ. The word Christ in the Greek literally means the anointed one. So when you're saying Jesus Christ, you are saying the English translation of Yeshua, Yahamashiach, which is God's anointed. So either way you look at it, whether you want to say it in English, whether you want to say it in Spanish, I don't know how to say Jesus in Tikalig, or I would try. Or as you say it in Hebrew, we are speaking about the same individual. I just don't want anybody to try to tell you, well, Jesus' name wasn't really Jesus. Well, you're right. Jesus is an English translation for us to say the Savior's name in our native language. You are to call him Jesus, originally Yeshua. He will be great. He will be called Son of the Most High. Now look at this next sentence. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. Notice Luke already told us that Joseph is a descendant of David. That means that when we use the word father in the Hebrew, it doesn't mean just your natural biological father, but any patriarchal member of your family going all the way back up. We can call Abraham the father of the Jews. Why? Because they are all of his lineage. Jesus is not only the biological descendant, but the legal descendant of his father David, and he will reign over Jacob's descendants forever. Now, those who were here in October when we talked about Revelation, we talked about the Davidic covenant was one of those four keys to understanding the New Testament. This is another fantastic reason why. If you look in 2 Samuel chapter 7, those of you who like to take notes, 2 Samuel chapter 7, you will find God's promise to King David that one of his descendants would rule forever. Now, here's the question. How do you have a forever king? Humans don't live forever, right? So how do we have a forever king? The only way to have a forever king is for him already to be immortal before he's king, right? So if you look in 2 Samuel, 2 Samuel chapter 7, you will see the prophecy, the promise given to David that we call the Davidic covenant, and if you look right here, and he will reign over Jacob's descendants, that's an illustrative way of saying the nation of Israel, right? Jacob was the father of the twelve. Jacob's name was changed to Israel. He will reign over the descendants of Jacob's descendants forever, and his kingdom will never end. Mr. Zach, if you are a first century Jew, and you hear that, you know exactly what the angel Gabriel is speaking about. You know he is referencing the Old Testament promise. Joe, he is referencing the Messiah is coming. And not just coming, but he is coming to rule and to reign. Keep in mind, the first century Jewish context, they weren't expecting Jesus to come as a suffering servant. They were expecting him to come as the conquering king, because the Davidic promise from the Old Testament told us there would be a forever king from the line of David. If there was ever a question of whether Jesus fulfilled the Davidic covenant, the angel Gabriel has answered it for you right there in Luke chapter 1, verse 33. Jesus was born, was prophesied to be born, and then fulfilled prophecy. Jesus was born to fulfill the Davidic covenant from the Old Testament. Alright, let's go forward one more Mr. Zach. The Holy Spirit will bring in the new king. Now this is something that probably, Miss Ilona, that they probably could not have seen from their perspective in the Old Testament. Remember I told you, you are looking at the prophecy from the Old Testament, it's like looking at a mountain range. You can see the peaks of the mountains side by side, but until you look at it from the top, you can't tell the distance from the first mountain to the last. That's what looking at prophecy is like from the Old Testament perspective. They could see that God said these different things were going to happen, but they didn't have God's omniscient view that realized there would be time in between these different things happening. How will this be, Mary asked the angel, since I am a virgin. So we just learned two things. Number one, Mary understands the basic biological mechanics of having babies. So I don't need to go over that again. Number two, she didn't question if it could be. Miss Janie, she only questioned the how. Not the who. She said, how will this be since? And I think this is incredibly indicative of a lot of our culture sometimes. Well how can God do that since? And fill in the blank with something that brings doubt. I was having a conversation yesterday about the debate between the Old Age of the Earth and the New Age of the Earth. And I thought, well that can't be because we know fill in the blank. I forget what the argument was, but how can that be since? When God wants to move and answer over 400 years of silence and bring forth prophecy, Mr. Don, I don't think the how is the issue. We're talking about an angel appearing to an obscure girl in the middle of the backwoods talking about the fulfillment of the Davidic covenant and the coming of a promised king. Well Angel, how that going to work? Now what I find interesting is if you in the same chapter, the passage we looked at last week, the same chapter where Zechariah asked, how will this be since my wife and I are old? And here Mary asks, how will this be since I'm a virgin? Notice the Angel Gabriel does not rebuke Mary. But he did rebuke Zechariah. Most scholars would say that's because in the moment the Angel Gabriel can tell the difference between a question of how of doubt and a question of how of belief. Miss Ilona, maybe I'll say it this way. Okay, I believe that's going to happen, but I don't understand how. Versus okay, but how's that going to happen? Do you notice there's a difference in those two questions? I'm still asking about the mechanics, but one is asking as I walk, as I step, as I believe, and the other is asking like, I don't know if I can do that until you tell me. Ah, it's not going to work. But I also think it's interesting that John the Baptist is born to a woman who's too old to have children, and the Savior Jesus is born to a woman who's too young to have children. God did not do the expected, but the unexpected. The Holy Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you, so the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. Also, don't forget Isaiah chapter 7 verse 14, the prophecy that the Virgin will bear a son. God already had a plan. I find it so interesting sometimes we pray and we doubt that God has a plan. Sometimes you're just going to be like, God, if you would just let me know the plan. Like, God, can I just get like on an email list, you know, like on Mondays? You could just let me know, this is the weather, your car's going to break on Tuesday, don't freak out, there's a mechanic down the block. You know, if God could just get me on that email list of knowing what's coming every week, it would take a whole lot less faith, wouldn't it? Because I would just expect everything. Look at the way the angel Gabriel answers this question. The Holy Spirit will come on you and the power of the most high will overshadow you, so the Holy One to be born will be called Son of God. And then, even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age. Just in case, Mary, you doubted God's ability to bear a child in a womb that shouldn't be carrying one, your relative is already carrying another child of promise. So that would lead me to the conclusion, Bill, that Mary didn't know about Elizabeth's pregnancy. Because the angel Gabriel is using it as a further proof or evidence to her question in the first line. Well, how will this be? Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age. And she who is said to be unable to conceive is in her sixth month. Why? Because no word from God will ever fail. So how do we take me to my title graphic, Mr. Zach? So how do we take this idea oh no, I got one more, don't I? Mary responds in obedience and faith. Sorry, no, you can't take me there yet. I need to say that first. Mary responds in obedience and faith, Luke 1, 38. Two incredibly powerful statements. Number one, I am the Lord's servant. One, two, three, four. Six words. In those six words, she immediately submits to God's authority. I am His servant, i.e. He is the master, I am the servant. And may your word to me be fulfilled. She commits to God's authority, she commits to God's plan, and she commits to faith. Because she hasn't seen it all worked out yet. But she says, I am the Lord's servant. May your word to me be fulfilled. And the angel left her. What's the difference between Zechariah and Mary? Mary responded in submission, obedience, and faith. And I would argue that all of us could do with a healthy dose of all three of those during the week. Sometimes God puts something in front of you and you're like, God, how's that going to work out? I don't know about all that now. Well, if I would just be willing to respond in obedience, God, you know more than me. In submission, God, your plans are greater than my plans. And faith, God, even if I don't know your plans, doesn't mean I'm not going to step. If you have to know everything in order to walk, it's not called faith. It's just called knowledge. In order to truly follow in submission, obedience, and faith, there's got to be an element of unknown. Or it's not really faith. It's also not risk. There's no reward. When the angel appears to this obscure country girl in the backwoods, her response is obedience, submission, and faith. That is exactly the response that I think we all need to have. Sometimes the Christmas story can get old. You know, we put our nativities together every year. Have you ever sat there and just, I did a series one year where we took each piece of the nativity and we talked about the faith of each character. Mary to me, you have to understand that when Mary shows up pregnant and unmarried in the first century, she's pretty much worthy of the death penalty. They can stone her to death. If you look in Matthew, you'll see that Joseph wanted to divorce her. Joseph wanted nothing to do with her. Because let's be honest, if you were in Joseph's shoes, what would you have thought? Oh no, honey, honey, let me tell you, the Holy Spirit showed up and there was this angel and there was this whole message and he told me I'm going to bear would you buy it? I mean honestly, just think to yourself for just a minute, you're Mary having to tell your newly engaged husband who just spent a dime to buy you from your dad for the privilege of being his wife. Honey, see there was this angel and he showed up while you were in the store and the Holy Spirit said I'm going to carry God's baby and a king and it was a whole lot of cool stuff. Would you have bought that? And yet that is exactly what Mary had to do. Mary had to walk out on faith not only that she would believe, but Richard, she had to walk on the faith that Joseph would believe. That Joseph would not stone her for it. And ultimately we see in Matthew that God sent an angel to Joseph to make sure that Joseph's faith was on point where it needed to be. The challenge I have for you this morning is as we walk out this Christmas season, as we prepare, we get to December 25th and we have Christmas Eve. Hopefully you'll be here and you'll invite all your friends. It's going to be beautiful. Are you walking in obedience and submission and faith? Or are you taking Christmas on autopilot? Christmas party here, send my Christmas cards there, send a couple cool Christmas gifts on my Facebook feed, call my grandma on Christmas day, eat some turkey, take a nap. I mean, I could schedule my Christmas day on autopilot and it would be Christmas Eve, take a nap. Christmas day, take a nap. Day after Christmas, take a nap. I can schedule my Christmas on autopilot. Or are we walking out this month in obedience and submission and faith that God still wants to do something new? Maybe the Davidic Covenant is already fulfilled. That doesn't mean God's done with his people. What is God doing in your life that he could see fulfilled? Bill, how is God growing us that we could be further fulfilled? And what do we need to do in obedience, submission, and faith to get there?