I want to ask you to turn with me in your Bibles to the Old Testament book of Joshua. We're going to be Joshua 5. And the title of this morning's message is, Faith to Follow Restored Relationship with God. Faith to Follow Restored Relationship with God. We'll be in Joshua 5, verses 1 through 15. Verses 1 through 15. And I believe I have it for you here on the screen in the New International Version. So this is the NIV, Joshua 5, verses 1 through 15. Here's how it reads. Joshua 5. So Joshua made flint knives and circumcised the Israelites at Gebeah Haaretz. Now this is why he did so. All those who came out of Egypt, all the military men of age, died in the wilderness on the way after leaving Egypt. All the people that came out had been circumcised, but all the people born in the wilderness during the journey from Egypt had not. The Israelites had moved about in the wilderness 40 years until all the men who were of military age when they left Egypt had died. Since they had not obeyed the Lord. For the Lord had sworn to them that they would not see the land He had solemnly promised their ancestors to give us, a land flowing with milk and honey. So He raised up their sons in their place, as they were the ones Joshua circumcised. And they were still uncircumcised because they had not been circumcised on the way. And after the whole nation had been circumcised, they remained where they were in camp until they were healed. Then the Lord said to Joshua, Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you. So the place has been called Gilgal to this day. On the evening of the 14th day of the month, while camped at Gilgal on the plains of Jericho, the Israelites celebrated the Passover. The day after the Passover, that very day, they ate some of the produce of the land, unleavened bread and roasted grain. The manna stopped the day after they ate this food from the land. There was no longer any manna for the Israelites, but that year they ate the produce of Canaan. Now when Joshua was near Jericho, he looked up, and he saw a man standing in front of him with a drawn sword in his hand. Joshua went up to him and asked, Are you for us or for our enemies? Neither, he replied. But as commander of the army of the Lord, I have now come. Then Joshua fell face down on the ground in reverence and asked him, What does my Lord have for His servant? The commander of the Lord's army replied, Take off your sandals for the place where you are standing is holy. And Joshua did so. Now, let's go all the way back to verse 1, and I want to sort of break this down and show you what's happening. If you've been here for the last couple of weeks, or if you haven't, here's the overview. The book of Joshua happens historically right after the big Exodus story. So as you're reading the Bible, you want to give yourself these mental mile markers so you can follow the big story. God selects a people, talks to a guy named Abraham, makes a great nation, follow through to the end of the book of Genesis. All of the Hebrews move to Egypt to survive a seven-year famine. Then they get enslaved in Egypt. They stay there for a few hundred years being under the thumb of Pharaoh, so to speak. Then a guy named Moses is born, and he leads the children of Israel out of Egypt, but unfortunately they're disobedient, and they spend 40 years wandering in the wilderness as they're spanking for being disobedient. Cue a man named Joshua. Joshua comes on the scene, and now God is finally ready to deliver on the promise that has been given all the way back in Genesis chapter 12. The children of Israel are now about to receive the land that God has for them. Verse 1 gives us our setting. Now when all the Amorite kings west of the Jordan and all the Canaanite kings along the coast, also meaning east of the Jordan, heard how the Lord had dried up the Jordan before the Israelites had crossed over. That was last week. Remember we looked at that? The children of Israel are camped on the western side of the Jordan River. God says, take the Ark of the Covenant, make the priests pick it up, walk out in the river, and as soon as they step out into the river, does anybody remember how many miles of river dried up? It was 15 north of their position, and then how many south of their position? Another five. Twenty miles of the Jordan River at flood stage dried up, and that was not just to show the children of Israel, I'm now going to give you what I want. But this is the other effect of it. All the Amorite kings and the Canaanite kings had to be going, what? I mean just put yourself, Miss Lorraine, put yourself in those shoes for a minute. You're the queen of Jericho, and in, you like that right? She's like, yeah, I can be the queen, I'm good. You're the queen of Jericho, and all of a sudden here comes an invading army, and their God dries up the Jordan River so that all their people can cross over on dry ground. I mean it has to be the single greatest psychological warfare tactic of all time. The actual nature obeys the God of the Hebrews as they cross into the land of Canaan. And we see what happened. Their hearts melted in fear, and they no longer had the courage to face the Israelites. Their hearts melting in fear is also a fulfillment of God's promise in Joshua 1.5 that he would go before them, and that promise is repeated in Joshua 2.9 that he would go before them. So here's, that's the setting. Here's the first point I want to show you this morning. In this text, relationship with God is restored. Remember, they're in the promised land, but they don't own it yet. They've gotten a taste of God's promise, but they don't have all of the fulfillment of his promise. Take a look at verse 2. At that time the Lord said to Joshua, Make flint knives and circumcise the Israelites again. Now, we're all adults here, so I don't think I necessarily have to go into graphic detail about what circumcision is. But what I want you to understand is not what it is physically, but what it means spiritually in the Old Testament. Circumcision is the sign of the covenant between God and his chosen people. Being circumcised meant I am a chosen person of God. That is a huge symbol for the Jews that makes them different from everyone else. If you go all the way back to the book of Genesis, God gave this symbol to Abraham and said, This will be the covenant between you and I. I will be your God and you will be my people. But this will be the outward sign that you realize you're my people. This will be the outward sign to everyone else that you realize you're my people. And it's not as simple as just grabbing a WWJD or Christian Fish bumper sticker and putting it in the back of your temporary rental car. This is a permanent change. This is a permanent, very uncomfortable change if you're a grown-up when this happens. This is a symbol that I recognize. I have been called out and set apart to be one of God's people. And why did he have to do it again? We're going to see that in a minute. If you're looking for the original installation of when circumcision was acquired, you can look and find it in Genesis 17, verses 9 through 14. Not even to the law yet, just Genesis 17, God's conversation with Abraham, set it up from the beginning. This is what is going to make you my people. Then Joshua made flint knives and circumcised all the Israelites. Let's go ahead to verse 4. Now this is why he did so. And now the writer gives us the explanation. All those who came out of Egypt, the military men of age, died in the wilderness. Death is the intended consequence of disobedience. The wages of sin is death. We even have that here in the Old Testament. Sin being against or going against God's will, the wages of it was death. All the men of military age died in the wilderness on the way after leaving Egypt. Verse 5, then all the people who came out had been circumcised. Interestingly enough, Israel was more obedient to God in slavery than they were in freedom. You see that? All the people who came out had been circumcised. That means while they were in Egypt, while they were in the midst of their sinful, slavish bondage, they were willing to be obedient to God. But all the people born in the wilderness, when they're free from slavery, only following God, then they are less obedient. I have to say, I can understand that. In the midst of trial and hardship, when you feel the pressure on your faith, it's easy to turn to God. In the midst of relaxation, it's, oh, I can read my Bible later. You know? Oh, I can go to church later. Oh, God, I can follow that later. Isn't it so much easier to stay focused on God when times are tough? And it's so much more challenging to stay committed when things are easy. They're wandering in the wilderness, no more slavery, only answering to God Himself. And yet the people born during this time are not being obedient to what God had said. And then verse 6. The Israelites moved about in the wilderness for 40 years until all the men of military age had died, since they had not obeyed the Lord, for the Lord had sworn to them. You have to remember, the Israelites are receiving a promise that's been given 600 or so years ago to their ancestors. They're now taking receipt of it. But the most recent generation, the ones who actually walked across the Red Sea on dry ground, the ones who witnessed the ten plagues of Egypt and God's miraculous power, did not receive the blessing of crossing over. Now somebody asked me earlier this week, do I think Joshua was alive at the Red Sea moment? It is very possible, considering all he would need to be was not of military age to survive the 40 years in the wilderness. Because if you remember the story, when they originally sent the spies in, they sent ten spies. Eight of them came back and said, no, we can't do this. They're too big. They're too giant. God's not strong enough. And two of them said, with God, what else do we need? And that was Joshua and his brother, Caleb. So he was clearly alive when they spied out the land the first time. Was Joshua alive when they crossed the Red Sea? My gut tells me yes. My gut tells me yes. Is his name inscribed in that passage in Exodus? No. But if we look at what we know of Joshua, he was clearly alive and trustable as a military spy in order to spy the first time. And God allowed him to do it here because God made a promise to his people. Verse 7. But because of the disobedience of that first generation, God said, okay, fine. I promised to give this land to your people. I never said you. So I'm going to raise up your sons. I will still be able... Do you notice God is still able to keep his sovereign word and respond to the choice of man. He said that again. God is able to keep his sovereign word and will intact and also respond to the disobedience of man. He promised it to their entire ancestors. So when the first generation is disobedient, he said, fine, I will raise up your sons. And I will give your sons that which was meant for you. But because of your disobedience, you're going to be replaced. So it's the children of the disobedient generation that they are still uncircumcised. Verse 8. And after the whole nation had been circumcised, they remained where they were until they were healed. God allows them to have the time it takes to rekindle their relationship with him. And interestingly enough, God protects... Because if you can remind, where are they right now in the story? Where are they in the land that we're reading about? Are they in Canaan or are they out of Canaan? They're in. Somebody said in. They're in Canaan. They are in enemy territory. They crossed the river in chapter 3. They're in enemy territory, and God is protecting them through the installation of fear in all of the other people. And God insulates them in order to do this first. You see that God's priority was for children of Israel to remember they were a covenant people more than just give them monetary blessing, or give them land, or give them possessions, or give them homes. God's priority was the restoring of their relationship first. And he provided for that restoration by making everybody else so afraid of the Israelites that nobody bothered to come near them. We see from the book of Genesis that there is a group of people who attacked a daughter of Abraham. Actually, it was a granddaughter of Abraham. They attacked her, raped her, and Simeon and his brother, I believe it was Simeon and Levi. Simeon and Levi, they make a deal with this town, and they go, okay, fine, you can marry our women, but first you have to be circumcised so you can have the same covenant we have. Waits until they circumcise all the men in the town, and then they go through and slaughter every one of them as revenge for harming their sister. So the idea that waiting for someone to be wounded because wounded people are easier to fight is an existing military tactic of this time. Wait for somebody to have an ouchie and then hit them, and they can't respond as well. Well, God knows this. We've seen it in Genesis. God's people know about this. So God protects them through this installation of fear so that they can do what is more important, which is restore their relationship. Here's my second point. After he restores their relationship, shame is rolled away. Shame is rolled away. Look at verse 9. Then the Lord said to Joshua, Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt. Now let me explain this. What is rolling away the reproach of Egypt? First the word Lord here, third word in the sentence. In Hebrew is Jehovah. That is God's covenantal name with His people. Any time that word comes up, it's because it's the Holy God speaking directly to His covenant people. Today I have rolled away the reproach. We don't really catch this in English, but in Hebrew, the word there to describe what we in English say as rolled away, the verb that it's rolling away, is actually gal-lal. And it literally means to roll away, as in to roll away a wheel or to roll away a tire, to physically remove and have it continue away. He has rolled away the reproach of Egypt. Now what is the reproach of Egypt? When the children of Israel left Egypt, they left as slaves. Escaping slaves nonetheless. In fact, Pharaoh still tried to go after them and capture them. But when they left Egypt, they left as slaves. But when they crossed the Jordan, they entered Canaan as conquerors. That's the reproach that has been rolled away. They wandered for 40 years in the wilderness, and it was incredibly disgraceful to Israel, because their wandering was a direct result of their disobedience. And he says, today I have rolled away that reproach. I have rolled away your slave status. I have rolled away your lesser than status. And I am going to give you a conqueror status. I am going to give you a greater than status. And what we don't see in English is the verb rolled away is galal, and the city is Gilgal. In Hebrew they are almost homophonic. They sound so similar, it's almost like a play on words. God is saying, I have rolled away, and because of this rolling away, we're going to name this city Gilgal. Sometime in your own personal study time, search the Bible for the word Gilgal, and watch all of the different things that happen at that city. And you will see a common theme or thread flowing through it, which is right here. The city of Gilgal is often associated with the letting go of shame or the coming back to God. And so he says, today I have rolled away that reproach of Egypt. I may have taken you out of Egypt as slaves, but I am going to walk you into Canaan as conquerors. I am going to walk you into Canaan as victorious as I walked you out of Egypt as a slave. And he rolls this away. And why is this shame being rolled away? Because of what just happened before that. They have now been restored to God's covenant people. The 40 years they were wandering in the wilderness, they were just wandering. That whole generation that was born in the wilderness was not obedient to God. And it started with the fact that none of them were circumcised. If you go back to Genesis, they were supposed to be circumcised at 8 days old. They should have all been circumcised as children, and yet they weren't. So what does that tell me? Well, that also tells me the parents continued in their disobedience. Because it was the parent that was responsible to circumcise the 8 year old, not the 8 year old baby to circumcise himself. So the parents continued in their disobedience after not believing that God could give them Canaan, and raised an entire generation that didn't know how to be obedient to God. And here in this one moment in the beginning of Joshua 5, God says, now it's time. Now it's time I am going to restore you to be my people. And now that our relationship is restored, you have the covenant symbol that you are my people. Through that restoration of relationship, I'm going to roll away your shame. And then, my next point, we're going to rekindle our relationship. Relationship is rekindled. So, he makes them their people, he rolls away their shame. Third, he rekindles their relationship. Look at verse 10. On the evening of the 14th day of the month, while camped at, the cow rolled away. On the plains of Jericho, the Israelites celebrated the Passover. They still haven't taken receipt of a single city in the land. They still technically haven't eaten from the land yet, although that's going to happen in a couple of verses. They restore their relationship, God takes away their shame, and then they worship. They haven't received anything yet, and then they worship. Now, the installation of the Passover, for those of you who like notes, is in Leviticus chapter 23 verse 5. That is when God installs the Passover, and it is an annually celebrated Holy Day. In fact, Holy Day is where we get our English word, holiday, from. It is an annually celebrated Holy Day, and it is to commemorate what event? What does the Passover make the Jewish people remember? Anybody? The Exodus from Egypt, and what specifically about the Exodus from Egypt? The angel of death passing over. So those of you who are not familiar with the story, the tenth plague that God sends on Egypt to get them to let the children of Israel go is the angel of death, and it flies over Egypt, and every home that does not have blood on the doorposts is the firstborn child of that home, firstborn son, dies. The passing over of the angel of death was due to the blood of the lamb on the doorpost. I mean, we can just stop with that, preach, sermon, and we're done. But God makes them remember this annually. Annually remember that it is the blood of the lamb that brings salvation from death. All the way back in Exodus, they knew that. That the blood of the lamb on the doorpost brings salvation from death. Every year, they remember and celebrate this Passover. And if you've ever been a part of a Seder meal that celebrates the Passover, you know every one of those elements has so much beautiful significance. God's reminding them annually, remember what I did for you, remember the kind of people that you are, remember that I brought you out of slavery into blessing by the blood of the lamb. What's interesting is they're not allowed to celebrate the Passover unless they're circumcised. I'm not going to make you turn there, but if you go to Exodus 12.43-49, what you would find out is, Jason, you can't celebrate the Passover if you are uncircumcised. You're not allowed to. The Passover is restricted. It is a celebration only for God's chosen people. So look at the order of what He does here. First, recircumcise My people. Second, roll away their shame. Third, remind them how to worship Me, because this whole generation that just got circumcised, they weren't allowed to celebrate the Passover. They would not have for the last 40 years. They would not have done what God required them to do because they weren't allowed to. Being uncircumcised, they were prevented from celebrating the Passover. So God restores them, He rolls away their shame, He rekindles their relationship with Him, reminding them not only of what He has done for them, but what He is about to give them, which brings me to the next point. Then He provides them provision from the Promised Land. Look at verse 11. On the day after the Passover, that very day, do me a favor, underline, circle, long press, highlight, whatever you need to do, that very day is the single most important word in all of verse 11. In Hebrew, the word that's that very day in Hebrew is etzim. It's one word in Hebrew. It's etzim. And the meaning of etzim is of the same or as an extension of. It is also translated as bone. Now think to Genesis, when God created Eve for Adam. What did Adam say of Eve? This is bone of my bone, etzim. She is etzim of my etzim. That is how much that concept of being the same or being a very extension of the same. So that day after the Passover, etzim, or as an extension of, connected to having the same nature as the Passover, they ate some of the produce of the land. There is an inextricable connection between the Israelites worshiping God at the Passover and them receiving the produce of the land. That is what that word etzim means. It means the receipt of produce of the land is a direct extension or a bone of my bone. It's an outgrowth of them remembering who they are and worshiping God the way they should. That very day they ate some of the produce of the land. Then look at what happens in verse 12. The manna stopped the day after they ate the food. Again, you see the causal relationship. First, Passover, etzim, produce from the land. Then, or meaning of that effect, the manna stopped the day after they ate this food from the land. There was no longer any manna for the Israelites. Now, some people would say, well, but God, why would you take away something wonderful and supernatural that you gave to your kids? Right? The manna was supernaturally provided food from heaven. Why would God remove a supernatural blessing from heaven that he gave to his children? Well, we find the answer in the relationship here between 11 and 12. The manna stopped the day after what? The day after they received the provision God had intended for them the whole time. See, the supernatural provision of the manna would not have been needed had the ten spies who spied out the land the first time been faithful. Had the generation that was taken out of Egypt been faithful. There would have been no forty years of wandering. Hence, there would have been no need for the manna. The manna was the stop gap. It was supernaturally provided, in essence, because of their disobedience. It was the stop gap to get them to what God had always wanted them to have, which was the produce of the land from Canaan. The manna, while amazing and supernatural, was for a limited time and for a specific purpose. And that was to get them to Canaan. Whilst the manna is incredibly awesome, it's a wonderful symbol that God can supernaturally provide for His people. God's plan was for them to be provided from the very land He had given them. It was never for them to just become dependent on the supernaturally provided manna. And then here's my last point. They do all of that, and then their relationship is remembered. Look at verse 13. Now, when Joshua was near Jericho, remember he's in enemy territory, right? He's outside of enemy land. He is on their side of the Jordan. He is here as a conqueror. He looked up and saw a man standing in front of him with a sword drawn in his hand. So, put yourself in that mind. Wes, you're Joshua. You are standing on the plains of Queen Lorraine's city, Jericho, and up walks a stranger who you don't know, weapon drawn. What is your automatic assumption? You probably think he's the enemy, right? Because you would know your people. You haven't told any of your people to gear out yet. So, in walks a guy I don't recognize, armed for battle. You're immediately going to go into a guarded or protective mode. And then look at his question. Are you for us, or are you for our enemies? I think it's a very reasonable assumption, right? I'm standing in enemy territory. I know that Queen Lorraine knows I'm here. And I know that she's got soldiers because my spies that I sent into your city a few chapters ago had to evade your soldiers. So, I know you've got to know we're coming. And here comes a stranger I don't see. And so, I'm immediately going to categorize it as an us versus them kind of situation. I'm immediately going to categorize it as my people versus your people. Okay? Take us to the next verse. Neither. Just stop. Just that one word answer. Mark, are you for us or against us? Neither. What does the answer show? That he doesn't accept the premise of the question. The man holding the sword doesn't accept the reality that it has to be you or me. He said, no, no, no. I'm not for either one. Now, this is about to get very complexing when I finish explaining this. But for the time being, what I want you to see here is in verse 14 when the stranger replies, neither, what he's laying the groundwork for is, Wes, I don't accept the premise that I have to be for you or for your enemies. I think there's a third option. And that's what the man with the sword is about to say. But as commander of the army of the Lord, I have now come. Now, the identity of the commander of the army of the Lord is in somewhat a slight dispute, although I do think there is a scholarly consensus on who this is. And so I'm going to put this down because I have to explain a much larger concept. What is the name of the Son of God? Jesus. Is Jesus always existed or did he only exist the moment he came into Mary's tummy? He's always existed, right? That means that the Son of God existed before his incarnation in the Christmas story. We all can agree on that. Jesus is part of the eternal God. Therefore, the second member of the Trinity does exist during the Old Testament. And he's right there. This is what we call a Christophany. Now, we can't call him Jesus realistically because he doesn't get that name until we go to the New Testament. And the angel tells Mary specifically to name the child Jesus. But this man standing here with a sword is, in fact, the second member of the Trinity. It is an earthly appearance of the Son of God prior to his incarnation. And we call that a Christophany, meaning it is an appearance of the Christ, but before he's born as Jesus the Messiah. Does everyone understand that? Because the second member of the Trinity, he's God, he's eternal. He existed before the foundation of the world. There's nothing wrong with admitting the fact that he lives during the time of the Old Testament, but he was not incarnate as human flesh like he came in the New Testament. In the New Testament, he came as a man. Here, he's appearing in his glorious state, the one that we will see again when he comes back. Joshua got to see it here. I am the commander of the Lord's army. I have now come. Why now? He specifically says, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm the commander of the Lord's army. I have now come. Well, why did God send his son now? Well, think about Joshua's question. They're in enemy territory. They're about to receive all of the blessings that God has for them, but Joshua posed the question. He said, Mark, are you with me or are you with them? And the Christ says, no, no, no, no, no, you don't get it. You're with me. I'm not with you. You're with me. I have now come. Meaning, I have not come to join you. I have come to lead you. God's promise in Joshua 1. No, I'm not for you. You're for me, bro. I'll take the head and you follow. And that is what he's saying here. Then Joshua fell face down to the ground in reverence. What message does my Lord have for his servant? Take off your sandals for the place you are standing on His holy ground. Now, I said there's a slight dispute over this Christophany. I will tell you why. Because the Lord never identifies Himself specifically as God, people want to say, well, this could be the archangel Michael. No, it can't. And I'll show you why. Look at verse 15. Take off your sandals for the place you are standing is holy. Angelic presence never defines holy. Think about the story of Moses. When God the Father appeared in the burning bush, He said the same exact line, the same exact wording. In fact, you can find it in Exodus 3, verse 5. I looked it up in the Hebrew. It had the same exact Hebrew words that God the Father spoke to Moses from the burning bush. God the Son now speaks to Joshua as the commander of the Lord's army. Exact same syntax, everything in the Hebrew. Because, and secondly, angels never accept worship from human beings. If you look at the few times that angels appear in the Bible to speak to man, of course, it's very scary and we want to try to give them reverence and worship. And an angel will say, no, no, no, we worship Him. We all worship the same God. Like, I know I got wings and I play a harp way better than you, but we all worship the same God. Here, He accepts the worship of Joshua. The only being on earth that accepts the worship from His people is God. So the commander of the Lord's army has to be God because His presence made the ground holy, or made the area holy. Interestingly, the only difference between the sentence here that Jesus says to Joshua and the sentence that God the Father spoke to Moses is the word ground. He said, to Moses, He said, take off your sandals for you're walking on holy ground. Here, Jesus only says, where you are standing is holy. What's the only difference between Moses and Joshua's situation? Joshua's in the promised land and Moses wasn't. If the land already belonged to God, the ground was already holy and set apart. He didn't have to declare the ground as holy. It was the presence of Jesus that was holy. You're in the presence of God. That's what's holy. Not the ground, not the church building, not the pews, not the sanctuary, the presence of God is what makes it holy. So Jesus appears, or I should say the Christ appears to Joshua and he says, no, no, no, no, I'm not here to be with you. You're with me. Like my land, my kids, you're one of my peoples. I'm not one of your peoples. You're one of my peoples. But interestingly, we see the Son of God appear here in 15 ready for battle. Here is, this is the promised Messiah that the children of Israel were looking for in the New Testament. They wanted the conquering king. They wanted the man who was going to beat back the evil pagan Romans and give them the land just like he is here. But Jesus came in the New Testament as the Savior, as the servant that we read about in Isaiah, as the servant. Why does Jesus say what he says here? Neither. Number one, he doesn't accept the premise of Joshua's question. It's not a question of it's us or them. Jesus is saying it's a question of behind me or not. Jesus ends, now you can go ahead and take me to my title graphic now. What just happened? I know I breezed through a lot of this. What just happened in this chapter? Previously, they've crossed over. They're in the land that God wants them to have. They are in the land of Canaan, but they haven't possessed it yet. They don't have it all, but they've got a touch of it. They're in it a little bit. Then, God calls them to restore their relationship with him. They get circumcised. Relationship is restored. Out of that restored relationship, shame is rolled away. After the shame is rolled away, worship can take place. And after worship takes place, I remember my place in God. That I'm to be for him. He's not for me. I think so often in the New Testament church today, we can be coddled into, or we can trip into the danger that God is for us. That God wants us to be happy. God wants us to be successful. God wants us to be wealthy, or influential, or blah, blah, blah. Fill in the blank with whatever adjective you want to go with. When the reality is, we could probably do to take a nice, strong lesson from Joshua's playbook. Are you for my benefit, or the benefit of someone else? God says, no, no, no, you've got it backwards. You should be about my benefit. You should be about my kingdom. I'm not here to make your life better. You are here to make my kingdom stronger. That's the major lesson from Joshua chapter 5. We're going to restore, and so now, let's look at how does this happen in the New Testament. Well, we have the benefit that Christ finally came as an incarnate Savior. And as the incarnate Savior, He died on the cross, and He was resurrected, which is what we're going to celebrate next Sunday. And because of that, our relationship is restored to God. Because of man's sin, our relationship is broken. God comes, incarnate as the Savior, and He restores us. Through His restoration, all of the shame of our past sin has been rolled away. Because of that sin being rolled away, we are here this morning to join with God in worship. The final step should be, are we for His kingdom, or do we see God as for our plan? That's the big, and keep in mind, this is the setting of this day. I don't have the rest of the time to go through the rest of the book of Joshua, but it's fantastic. It's a fantastic, epic story of God's people. They fall, they're disobedient, they get back up again, but God is still gracious and loving. You just read the book of Joshua and say, God, how many times have I failed? How many times have I stumbled? And yet in your grace, you still allow me entrance into your kingdom. As the New Testament church today, we are waiting for the millennial kingdom of Christ. We are waiting for God to usher us into His kingdom. And while we are waiting, I need you to not ask the question, God, are you for me? I need you to ask the question, how much am I for God? How much am I for God's plan, not how much is God for my plan?