Final exam. Everybody can get their blood pressure up for just a second. I promise. We'll get there. The final exam. I believe that it is always smarter to plan your work and work your plan. Anybody ever heard that phrase before? Plan your work and work your plan. My mentor, Pastor Rick, taught me a long time ago that it's way better to have a plan and not need it than not have a plan and need one. And I think all too often, we find that applicable in our work lives. We find that applicable in school if you're studying. You find that applicable for preparing for midterms or for finals. At work, often, if you work in the construction field, or I would imagine, Mark, even in your field, if you don't plan and prepare, you're not really going to do a good job at what you have on need. Mr. Charles, I can imagine as a carpenter, if you tried to go to work and didn't have your tools, it would be very difficult to accomplish the things that you've done. You planned ahead. Well, how many times after planning ahead do you look back and see how well your planning did? That's what I want to do today. Today is the final Sunday of the year. Tomorrow starts 2018. But before we get to next year, I want to ask you how your year was this year. So I would like to give you a little bit of a Sunday morning final exam. If you'd like to turn in your Bibles with me to the book of Galatians chapter 6, our key thought this morning is growing in faith doesn't happen by accident. Growing in your faith is not going to be an accidental outcome. It needs to be an intentional one. And if it is an intentional one, then at some point, we need to look back and how well am I doing on that? So our text this morning will come from Galatians chapter 6, just the first six verses. Galatians 6, 1 through 6 in the New International Version. Here's how it reads. Brothers and sisters, if someone is caught in a sin, you who live by the Spirit should restore that person gently. But watch yourselves, for you may also be tempted. Carry each other's burdens, and in this way, you will fulfill the law of Christ. If anyone thinks they are something when they are not, they deceive themselves. Each one should test their own actions. Then they can take pride in themselves alone without comparing themselves to someone else, for each one should carry their own load. Nevertheless, the one who receives instruction in the Word should share all good things with their instructor. Now before we get into this, I want to make sure you understand the background and the context of the passage that we just read. Can anyone tell me who wrote the book of Galatians? The Apostle Paul. Who did he write it to? The church at Galatia. Galatia is a little more than a city. It's actually a much larger area in Asia Minor. So this book has a broad application. It has an application to any Christian who was living in the area of Galatia when he wrote it. What I want you to understand about the book of Galatians, like almost all of Paul's writings, is that there is a global application and context. This is not Paul writing specifically to Timothy. This is not Paul writing specifically to Titus, specifically to Philemon. This is Paul writing to the church at Galatia, like he wrote to the church at Ephesus, the church at Philippi, the church at Rome. Secondly, I want you to understand what happened right before the passage we read. If you still have your Bibles open, flip back to Galatians 5 and take a look at what he previously wrote. Galatians 5, Paul talks about Christian living. Living by the power of the Spirit. And at the end of Galatians 5, that's where we find the famous passage labeling the fruit of the Spirit. He labels the fruits of iniquity, and then he labels the fruit of the Spirit. Directly following that discourse, Godly living, living by the Spirit, the fruit that should be in your life, if you are living by the Spirit, we find the passage we read today. So what I want you to understand as we unpack this passage this morning, is number one, this passage has a global intent. Mr. Jason, it's not just meant for, like Timothy, like a Christian leader, or Philemon, a Christian brother. This is a global application. And the background, because remember, in the original writings, there are no chapters and verses. We added those hundreds of years later, so we could do exactly what we're doing this morning. There were no chapter and verse notations when he wrote this original letter to that original church. It all flowed. So the background to what we're reading today is living by the Spirit and living in the fruit of the Spirit. That said, I want to go back and just point out a few things from this passage. So here's first, we have a responsibility to know one another. He opens with brothers and sisters. Why? Because once you are a member of the body of Christ, you are related to the rest of us. We are one family. Regardless of how many churches are planted, how many different denominations are created, how many different logos are put on, how many different signs, we are always one family. I was having breakfast with my pastor friends at the beginning of the month of December, and I told him, I said, guys, I'm so thankful that we can get together because there's not going to be separate seating sections in heaven. It's not like the Baptists are going to have the back pew on the ground floor and the Presbyterians are going to be up in the balcony and all the Charismatics are going to be down at the front and the non-denominational guys, they'll be sparsed in on the aisles. That's just not the way it's going to be. The body of Christ has always been one body. Regardless of how many times we've tried to subdivide or fracture or we've had disagreements over doctrine, I understand that. But we're always one body. So Paul, when he opens this discourse, brothers and sisters, again, global application to every single person who calls themselves a Christian. If someone is caught in a sin, I'm sure everyone's excited to hear what I'm about to say next. If someone is caught in a sin, there's something inherent within this sentence. Number one, it accepts the reality, Miss Lisa, we're all sinners. Those of us who are old enough in our faith, mature enough, we can admit we're all sinners. No one in and of themselves is righteous. No one person could earn God's love in and of themselves. We're all sinners. But when it says if someone is caught in a sin, it adds another level to it. It adds the fact that not only am I a sinner, but Mr. Pete knows the sins in my life. Now we're talking about relationship. It's not just the fact that I'm a sinner. It says if someone is caught in a sin, that means my sin, whatever that sin is in my life, is now exposed. It is open in front of my brothers and sisters. How many of us know the people sitting next to you well enough to know the sins they struggle with? Sometimes in the American church, we have played down this idea of accountability, this idea of covering, this idea of holding one another to a godly standard because, you know what, Zach, this is my life. As Americans, we like our personal space. We like our private space. Sometimes all you know about someone is what you read on their Facebook feed. You don't really know them. You know the appearance that they want you to see of them. You know their public face. But what Paul is talking, if someone is caught in a sin, Derek, that means we've got to know each other well enough that I can know when you're struggling or I can straight up catch you when you're struggling, which is an even scarier thought. And then that is where we start our discourse. If someone is caught in a sin, you who live by the Spirit should restore that person gently. You know what that doesn't say? Ye who goes to church should judge that person harshly. Notice it doesn't say that. What is the product of living by the Spirit? Well, I could look a few verses before and I could see that it should be love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and what's the last one? Self-control. Did you notice not a single one of them is judgment? If we want to see the body of Christ live the holy life we are called to live, we have to accept this responsibility. Mr. Don, when I stumble, it is your responsibility to pick me up and lovingly restore me. When we catch someone in a sin, we don't immediately jump to the book of Matthew and find how many ways we can confront them and kick them out of the church because of it. That wasn't Paul's perspective. He said, those of you who live by the Spirit, now notice there's the moniker, Mr. Pete, you can't restore someone from a sin if you're still living in it. Now we've got a whole other problem. Mr. Josh, who are the people we can look to who are truly living by the Spirit who we can then be restored by? There's nobody in the house who's living by the Spirit of God. There's nobody left to restore those who are sinners. Of which Paul said, I am the cheater. So in this relationship within the body of Christ we are related to one another. We have to accept our sin, accept that we need to know one another good enough that we know your sin and we need to accept the responsibility to restore that person gently. But watch yourselves or you may also be tempted. Anybody who knows anything about evangelism, especially street evangelism, knows there are certain places you don't send certain people to do street evangelism. A pastor friend of mine, his name's Jim, he probably doesn't listen to this recording so he's not going to get mad if I tell his story. He is from the town I lived in in Florida. And the ladies ministry in his church got together and they said, you know what? We want to reach out to the broken women in our community. The ladies ministry in his church began an outreach program to the exotic dancers who worked less than two miles from their church building. The ladies went to minister to the female exotic dancers. Now if we were to open it up and say, hey y'all we're going to go evangelize at the strip club, who wants to go? There very well may be some people who decided to go for that evangelism who don't need to be there. What was really interesting is he was recounting this story to me. His wife led the ministry team that ministered to these women. They asked him if he would come. The male pastor, it was the ladies who worked at this particular establishment. After the relationship was brokered with the ladies in the church and they experienced love and not rejection, they experienced care and not judgment, they actually asked him if he would come and pray with them. And now he's caught in a quandary. How does the pastor of a very prominent Baptist church that's on a big road drive his way to the exotic dance club? So he was just very open. The ladies ministry came to the deacon board because that's who runs their church. And they said listen, this is the fruit of what God is doing in our church. And Dave asked for a pastor to come and speak to them on their grounds. And so he eventually did go with his wife glued to his side. And he had an opportunity to minister in an area that many people, godly people would have just avoided. Now I want to say for the record, he didn't walk in the door first. The ladies ministry had gone in and sown the seed that then they asked for the man of God to show up. So I don't want to make it sound like my friend is frequenting ill establishments. He was asked to go and he ministered. What I want you to see here is, Jimmy is one of the few guys I know that that was not an area that he would have struggled in. You don't send the alcoholic to evangelize in the bar. You don't send the drug addict to evangelize the drug dealer. Jimmy was one of the few men who could have walked into that atmosphere and was not fazed by his surroundings. He was fully covered in the spirit of God and he did the job God called him to do in that moment. You have to know yourself well enough to know that there are some people that you shouldn't be restoring. There are some people, maybe they struggle with something that's too close to a weakness that you have. Or the reverse can also be true. Maybe you think you're so religious and righteous that you're so prideful that you can't even have an empathy for the person who's broken. And so then you're still judging them and not reaching up to them. So we have to know one another. Take me forward please. Second, we have a responsibility to carry one another. Carry each other's burdens. And in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ. Obviously here the imagery is of a physical weight being carried by two people instead of one. In context, let's just admit there are some things in life that are tough to go through. Maybe I'm the only person that's ever felt that way. Where my faith was strained to the limit because of what my life was experiencing. And at those moments I don't want to do it myself. I'm tired. I'm weak. I may be angry. I may be tearful. I may be broken. And I just can't go on by myself. It is at that moment that those who live by the Spirit, those who are godly, are called and responsible to stand beside me and carry that weight. It has the imagery of the Old Testament story of Joshua fighting with the Amalekites and Moses is standing up on the hill and as long as Moses kept his hands above his head, Joshua prevailed. But when Moses brought his hands down, he didn't. So what happened? His brother and another guy came alongside of Moses and held up his arms until victory came. There are times in your life where you will experience a storm in your faith that you should never experience alone. But if we, Mr. P, if we cannot be open with each other, if we stay closed off, if we stay hidden to one another's burdens, then I don't know when you're going through it. Worse, you don't trust me to talk to me about it and you're left trying to hold your arms up by yourself. Not because you were designed to. But because pride, fear, fear of judgment, fear of repercussion gets in the way and we don't want to talk about the icky stuff in our life. That's my weight to carry until the day when that weight becomes too much and then you lament the fact that you don't have somebody you can call. You don't have that person you can go, brother, I need five minutes. I have a few pastor friends of mine that if I text them that sentence, I need five minutes. I get a call within the hour. Okay, what do we got to talk about? I may only get five minutes. I may only get the five minutes because they walked out of something to call me. But you need to have someone like that in your life or when that time comes and your arms get weary and tired, guess what? You're going to fail. And you're going to fail hard because you don't have that person to carry your burden. Or worse, Mr. Pete, what if you were supposed to hold up my arms? And because we didn't have a relationship, we didn't treat each other like brothers. Yes, you know what? Sometimes brothers quarrel. Sometimes brothers disagree. You're sitting next to your sibling so I can pick on you for this. Sometimes, I say I grew up as an only child. I don't have any brothers and sisters. So I'm learning all about sibling dynamics from my children. And my children, they go at it. I just look at my wife, she goes, it's normal. It's okay. I'm like, really? This is what you do? No wonder the Lord had me born as an only child. I would never, I would have never survived. You may need to know someone well enough to go alongside of them and say, hey, you and I both know you're going through something. Can we go get some coffee? You don't have to embarrass them. You don't have to stand up in front of the church and go, the Lord has told me. And then fill in the blank with somebody's dirty laundry. You don't need to do that. But you should know someone well enough. Okay, let's talk. Yeah, it's time for five minutes. That's exactly right. We have a risk of being a burden to each other. We have a responsibility to be honest with ourselves. If anyone thinks they are something when they are not, they deceive themselves. Sadly, I think this verse applies to too many people too often. We have this idea that because we've attended church for a certain amount of time, or we've read the Bible a certain amount of time, or we've taught a Sunday school class, or we've run a youth ministry, or we've served on a deacon ministry, or we've served as an elder, that I am automatically always mature. And that is not the case. Maturity often like tide can ebb and flow, depending on how disciplined you are. And sometimes those who think they are very mature aren't really. They've just said, well, I've participated in these activities and these activities are normally for mature people. So because I did the activity, I must be mature. No, maybe you were just the most mature out of the group and so you got drafted. You got voluntold, not volunteered. You got voluntold for a job. When was the last time you took a very serious look in the spiritual mirror of your life and assessed for yourself how mature you really are? Most people haven't done it, ever. And those who have don't do it often enough. You've got to be honest with yourself. When you get to heaven, the first question is not going to be, how many weeks you go to church last year? It's not. When you think about the passage, I want to say it's in Matthew, when the religious leaders, they stood before the Lord and they said, Lord, we did this in your name and we did that in your name and we cast out devils and we did this. And he says, but I never knew you. We've placed the definition of maturity in activity-based accomplishments instead of in intimacy with the spirit. Don't make the mistake of thinking you are better than you really are. We have a responsibility to test ourselves. Each one should test their own actions. Then they can take pride in themselves alone without comparing themselves to someone else. I am learning this lesson all over with my children. Quality by comparison always fails. If you are just the most spiritually mature person in a room, that doesn't make you mature. It just makes you mature in comparison with the other people in the room. It just makes you mature in comparison to whatever the other bar was. I was speaking with one of our newly retained families. I was calling them all this week. And I said, is there anything else that you wanted to share? I had several questions to ask preparing a report for the board. And one of those questions was, do you have anything that you would like to share with the board of your feelings about our church? And one of them said, well, I really like the way you teach. I stay awake. And I went, that's awesome. That's the lowest bar I've ever had to meet when it comes to presenting the gospel. All I have to do is make sure you don't fall asleep. That's great. But if the quality of my, Jason, if the quality of my instruction is only measured by the fact that you can't be narcoleptic, that doesn't really say anything about whether I'm good at my job. It just says that you're comparing me to the last guy. Quality by comparison never works out well. It only compares you to the lowest common denominator, whoever that denominator may be. So we have a responsibility to test ourselves in the work of godliness. Now, there's a statement in here that seems antithetical to what he said just a minute ago. For each one should carry their own load. That seems like it's at odds with the fact that we should carry one another's burdens. The reality is this. No one is responsible for your spiritual maturity but you. Jason, it doesn't mean I can't help you but it means at the end of the day, I don't have to answer to the lord for your maturity or Zach for yours or Mr. Don for yours. I don't have to answer for yours. I may have to answer for how I helped or hindered you but your spiritual maturity is not on me. You'll get to heaven and answer for it yourself. And the last point. We have a responsibility to support those who teach us. I want to say this very clearly. I don't want to say what I have to say in the next three minutes. So much so, Mr. Pete, I tried to leave it out of my sermon but after a good kick in the rear from my wife and some time reflecting on it, I said, what good would it be for me to call myself a biblical communicator and then run from the passages that are hard? So for the next three minutes, you just need to understand I don't want to say this any more than you want to hear it. But I have to say this. But I am bound to teach the scriptures the way they're written, not the way I want to edit them. So we have a responsibility to support those who teach us Galatians 6, 6. Nevertheless, tied with everything else we just talked about, maturity, godly living, fruit and the spirit. Nevertheless, the one who receives instruction in the word should share all good things with their instructor. There is no other way to interpret that. And I say we because this verse applies to me too. Just because I happen to be a biblical instructor doesn't mean I'm absolved from obedience to this verse. If anything, I am held to a higher standard of obedience to this verse. We have a biblical responsibility to support those who educate us in the word. So in this setting, in this room, that's me, that's Mr. Pete, that's Mr. Jason. I'm not the only person who educates in the word here at our church. But we have a responsibility, a biblical responsibility. Now, in context, yes, if we go all the way back to the first century, most likely what we're talking about here is the butcher shares of what he has and the baker shares of what he has. But then in the book of Acts, we clearly see the church at Ephesus financing Paul's missionary journeys to plant more churches. So there is a clear tie-in to the tithes and offerings we give to a church supporting those who give biblical instruction. And let's just say for the record, everyone wants to look and say, well, yeah, of course, Bill, of course you want to preach that because you get paid by the church. Well, yeah, but I mean, who's the most effective NFL football player, the quarterback right now? If he were not getting paid, would he still throw the ball as well as he does? No, why not? So to use your argument, if I were not getting paid, would I still be as effective of a teacher? No, you don't think so? Thank you very much for your vote of confidence. Fair enough. But do you think that because because what everybody wants to say here is that I have a conflict of interest on this verse, but that I have a conflict of interest on the previous five verses? No. So is it really that fair to take this one verse out and apply a conflict of interest when there hadn't been you all had a single conflict in the last five verses of what I said about spiritual majority to this verse. And all of a sudden, nobody wants to listen to it. Nobody wants to listen to it. Nobody wants to listen to it. Nobody wants to listen to me teach this one because of the conflict. If there wasn't a conflict in the first five, there shouldn't be one here. I just got to teach it the way it was written. You and I are not absolved from this responsibility. We together have a biblical responsibility to support those who teach the Word of God. Local and foreign. That's exactly how we get into missions and church planting. And how do we think the work of the Gospel spreads? In the book of Acts, they supported Paul. Our church supports missions. So I don't want you to think that this verse is just all about Pastor Bill. No. This is all about all of the ways that our church supports the teaching of the Word.