We are going to continue my series entitled, Encountering Jesus. If you have not been here in previous weeks of Encountering Jesus, what we are doing is we are exploring moments in the Gospel when Jesus ministered up close and personal. You know, there are times when Jesus teaches to the crowds. The Sermon on the Mount is a great example of that. Mark 5. There is a fantastic example of Jesus teaching to a huge crowd. He is standing up on an elevated hill, and He is addressing the masses. It is several chapters long. Zach, it is a beautiful piece of Scripture. But then there are also these moments where Jesus has these very intimate, one-on-one kind of conversations and healings with individual people. That is what I wanted to explore in this Encountering Jesus series. So if you are at Mark 5, we are going to begin our reading in verse 25. Mark 5, verse 25. I am going to read 25 to 34, and I have it here in the NIV, or the New International Version. So this is Mark, chapter 5, beginning in verse 25. This is how it reads. And a woman was there who had been subject to bleeding for twelve years. She had suffered a great deal under the care of many doctors, and had spent all she had. Yet instead of getting better, she grew worse. When she heard about Jesus, she came up behind Him in the crowd, and touched His cloak, because she thought, if I could just touch His clothes, I will be healed. Immediately, her bleeding stopped, and she felt in her body that she was freed from her suffering. At once, Jesus realized that power had gone out from Him. He turned around in the crowd and asked, Who touched My clothes? You see a crowd of people against you, His disciples answered. And yet you asked Who touched Me? But Jesus kept looking around to see who had done it. Then the woman, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell at His feet, trembling with fear, told Him the whole truth. He said, Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be freed from your suffering. This is a fantastic story about the grace of God, and Jesus' healing ministry. But before I can unfold the story to you, we must make sure we agree on the setting of the story. So let's talk about the setting for instance. If you still have your Bibles, and you are still in Mark 5, the setting of our story happens a few verses before that. So let's take a look at verses 21 through 24 that lead into our story. 21 starts this. When Jesus had again crossed over by boat to the other side of the lake, a large crowd gathered around Him while He was by the lake. Then one of the synagogue leaders named Jarius came, and when he saw Jesus, he fell at His feet. He pleaded earnestly with Him, My daughter is dying, please come and put your hands on her so that she will be healed and live. So Jesus went with him. A large crowd followed and pressed around Him. The setting of our story today has nothing to do with the woman who gets healed. Jesus is already on His way to heal someone else when she interjects herself into the story. The setting of the entire story that we are about to look at is an interruption. She interrupts the Savior while He is on the way to Jarius' house to heal Jarius' daughter, and Mark inserts this story right in there. So whilst the setting does have to do with her in the sense that it's an interruption, when you look at verses 21 through 24, and then 24, a large crowd had pressed around Him, 25, and a woman was there. Do you notice how you get a much broader picture of the correct setting of the passage by going just a few verses before? This story is not really, Jesus is not on His way to heal this woman. Jesus is on His way to heal somebody else, and this woman goes, Wait a minute, He's a healer, and she is in the crowd that is following Him. Now, why is there a crowd following Him? Well, if you were to continue to go back in time, grab your DeLorean and keep rewinding the verses, you will see that Jesus has just crossed back over from the western side of the Sea of Galilee and healed the Gadarene and Demoniac. We look at that already, and so Jesus is in the midst of doing a lot of healing, hence the crowd shows up. If you knew there was a healer, Ben, wouldn't you be there if you were sick? Pretty much. So a crowd of people meets Jesus at the lake. We see that in 21 to 24. That's our setting. Jesus has been met by the synagogue teacher, Jarius. Jarius has pleaded with Christ to come and heal his daughter, and Jesus goes, Okay, so let's go to your house. And in the midst of going to that house, boom, insert 25, and there was a woman. Notice the woman is also never named, because her name is not what Mark chooses to focus on in our passage today. Her name was not important. Her healing is what was needed for us to see. So here's my first point this morning. This poor woman is exhausted. I will say as a preface, I specifically chose when I was designing this series, I looked at the calendar, I was looking at the way the holidays play out, I specifically chose this passage for Mother's Day. Not because I think all of you moms who are here today are sick. That is not my intentional point. But I will say this. I've been married to my wife now, and have watched her be a mom for now coming up on eight years. And I will say this. Moms, hats off to you. Being a mom can be exhausting. Being a mom can be tiring. Being a mom can be difficult. Likewise, dads who are with moms, it can be challenging and stressful. And I wanted to specifically feature a woman who came to Jesus in need. Because I think if we're honest, we all come to Jesus in need. Sometimes we have to recognize our need. Sometimes we're a little oblivious to our own need. So take a look at verse 25. My first point this morning is that this woman is completely exhausted. In verse 25 we find out that she has been subject to bleeding for 12 years. First thing I need to point out, this is not in any way related to a typical menstrual cycle. This is not that type of bleeding. The word used here specifically means an abnormal source of bleeding. It could have been a tumor. It could have been another ailment. It could have been disease related. But dissuade yourself from the idea that this is in any way related to a cycle based bleeding. It's not. Secondly, she has had this ailment for more than a decade. 12 years. Just let that sink in for a minute. This woman has had this illness for 12 years. What I also would like you to understand is that because she has had a bleeding illness for 12 years, Mr. Pete, she has been ceremonially unclean for 12 years. Now for those of you who may be unfamiliar with that term, ceremonial cleanliness in the Bible is incredibly important. You had to be ceremonially clean to go to temple. You had to be ceremonially clean to worship. You had to be ceremonially clean to be able to be touched by other clean people. For 12 years, this woman's illness has kept her faith at a distance. Has kept her ability to worship God at a distance. Has kept even her other friends and family at a distance. Because if you touch someone who is ceremonially unclean, guess what you just became? Ceremonially unclean. So just in verse 25, I can tell you this. This woman is not just bleeding, she has been isolated by her illness. She is lonely even though the text does not explicitly say it. Then look at verse 26. She suffered a great deal under the care of many doctors and spent all she had. Yet, she grew worse. There are four forms of exhaustion that I see here in verse 26. First, she is physically exhausted. She suffered a great deal. Just imagine that you had an illness, an uncurable illness for 12 years. And the doctors tried all different manner of trials and medicines and surgeries and whatever else. And nothing made it better. Would you not be physically tired of this fight? Yes. Second, she is emotionally tired. She saw many doctors. Which means Dustin after the first doctor failed, guess what? We will go dial a new doc. We will hit dialadoc.com, find a new one and we will try that other doctor. And I bet you, you know what? I bet you the first time she saw that doctor, he was all super excited. Absolutely, we can take care of that. I have dealt with this a hundred times. You know, and all of a sudden he fails. And then we go to doctor number three. And doctor number three is obviously this is his first chance to solve this puzzle. And he thinks he can do it and he is excited. And slowly and slowly and slowly that emotional cycle just builds up to the point where you see that next doctor. You do not want to put your hopes up because you have been let down so many times by the scripture. She says many doctors. So she is physically exhausted. She is emotionally exhausted. Number three, she is financially exhausted. The text said she spent all she had. That means I do not even have any money left to go find any other doctors who might make me emotionally tired. So she is physically exhausted, emotionally exhausted, financially exhausted. And then finally the last phrase here, she is mentally exhausted. Yet instead of getting better, she grew worse. Everything she tried. She spent all of her money. She spent all of her emotional equity in believing that these doctors could heal her. And at the end of the day everything equaled nothing. And she is still sick and divided and at a distance and lonely. Here is my second point. In this state, in this emotionally, physically, financially, mentally exhausted state, she did not want to make a scene. Take a look at 27. When she heard about Jesus. What did she hear about Jesus? What has Jesus just been doing? Both on the other side of the lake and on this side of the lake. What was Jesus doing in his ministry? Healing. He was healing people. He was healing a leper. He was healing a demoniac. He was healing a cripple. He was healing people. If I am this woman and I have been sick for 12 years and I am out of money and I feel like I am out of options. But I might have one glimmer of hope and faith left. That this man who is doing miracles that no one has been able to understand or comprehend. Maybe he can do it. But she chooses to not make a scene. Unlike the character of Blind Bartimaeus who we looked at a few weeks ago. He is yelling from the side of the road. Jesus, my Messiah, I am broken. And the crowd is telling him, dude will you shut it? No, Jesus, my Messiah. I mean Bartimaeus went full out. This woman does the opposite. Look at 27. When she heard about Jesus, she came up behind him in the crowd. This is incredibly important. My Wednesday people, look the where variable here. She is not approaching Jesus to his face. She is not making herself the key of the moment. Why? Because Jesus is already on his way to heal somebody else. She is interjecting herself into the story. And she approaches Jesus from behind. And then the next phrase, in the crowd. She approaches Jesus from behind. Why does she do this? Well, I think if you take into account the level of exhaustion that she has experienced. If you take into account, this is what I like. She is out of hope. But she is not out of faith. She is out of hope in common man. She is out of hope for medical doctors. She is out of hope for man's solutions. But she is not out of faith. But she is not quite ready to take that faith and just jump into the middle of the crowd and make it about her. She doesn't want to make this moment about herself. But she desperately wants to be healed by Jesus enough that she pushes her way through the crowd. Now you remember what I told you about being ceremonially unclean? What would happen to this woman if the crowd were to find out that she just pushed and elbowed her way through half the crowd. And now half the crowd can't go to temple. At the very least she is unpopular. At the very worst they stone her to death. So I don't want you to get the idea that her concealment is all just emotionally driven. It's emotionalism. She just can't handle it. I just need Jesus. No. There is a very real reason. There is a very real reason that she is not pushing herself through this crowd. She is concealing herself because she very well knows if they find out that she is ceremonially unclean. And she is pushing her way through the crowd and just bam. You are just ceremonially unclean. Now this is going to be a big problem. She is breaking the Levitical law. For those of you who want to know where it is, who like your cross references, Leviticus 15 verse 25. Leviticus chapter 15 verse 25. But in spite of the risk, in spite of the risk of getting found out that she is causing half the crowd to be ceremonially unclean. Her faith pushes forward and she says to herself, if I just, I love that word. That's a couple of words. I'm not good at math. If I just touch his clothes, I will be healed. In other words, even a little Jesus, even a sliver of the hem of his garment, the touch of his clothes, even a little Jesus is enough to heal all of me. That is an amazing amount of faith, especially when we see what all of this woman has gone through. Her faith says, if I just touch his clothes, I will be healed. That word healed, we've seen it already before. It's sozo in the Greek and it is the same exact word that Mark uses for spiritual salvation. It literally means to be saved or rescued from impending danger. If I can just touch his cloak, I will be saved and rescued from impending danger. The impending danger obviously being her illness. Second, I want to point out this, second point this morning. Her healing was immediate. Look at verse 29, the very first word of verse 29 in the NIV. Immediately. How long has this woman been sick? Twelve years. And how long did it take her to be healed? Immediately. That fast. Twelve years, all of her money, all these different doctors, nobody could figure it out. And one small touch of the backside of the hem of the Savior's garment. And immediately, her bleeding stopped and she felt in her body she was freed from her suffering. So, at this moment in the story, let's just see the word picture here. At this moment in the story, she touches the Savior and in the midst of this crowd, in the middle of bumping into everybody, immediately she is healed and she knows it. It's not, well, you know, take these couple of Jesus pills and sleep on it three days, call me in the morning. No, she knows immediately. She feels it in her body that she is completely healed of this ailment that has suffered for the last twelve years. But then, take a look at what's the first word in verse 30. In the NIV, it actually says, at once. In the Greek, it's the same exact word that begins verse 29. In the Greek, it's the same exact word, immediately. For some reason, they didn't want to start two verses with the same word, I guess. But you could read it as, immediately her bleeding stopped. And then in verse 30, immediately Jesus realized that power had gone out of him. So, here we're standing in the middle of this crowd. This woman has been suffering for twelve years. She is immediately healed and the Savior immediately knows it. So, how many people in the crowd at this moment know this woman has been healed? Two. Who are they? Jesus and her. And for her, that had been enough. Right? She'd been fine with that. She was fully healed. She was fully restored. Her faith set her free from her illness. But Jesus doesn't let it go there. Jesus could have kept going. He's on his way to heal somebody else. He was in the midst of doing ministry. Interesting, as I was preparing for this, one of my commentaries, I actually literally stopped the text in the middle and it said, How often do you stop for interruptions? You know, because as a pastor you get busy and I get busy studying or I get busy visiting or I get busy working on the website or the other million things that I try to get done each week. And how often do we take the time to stop for the God ordained interruption that should have been there? Or do we miss it? And I just put the commentary down and I was like, okay, God, I'll take a pause. I'll take a lesson. I am. I get very busy and I get very almost tunnel-tracked and I get scope locked on what I'm doing. And I've got to finish that task because if I let my ADHD turn back on, then I'm going to go squirrel and then never get that first task done. So I scope lock on something to get it all done. And then sometimes I think I can miss those God ordained interruptions, those things that God put in my path. So in verse 30, immediately Jesus realized that power had gone out of him and he turns around and he looks and he says, Who touched my clothes? Who touched my clothes? Which obviously in a minute we're going to notice his disciples think it's a pretty stupid question. They would never say to the Savior, really dude? Like a huge crowd of people, they're all bumping into you. Who touched you? Come on now. But that's exactly what they think. Take a look at verse 31. You see the people, I don't know why they sound like they're from Brooklyn, but they can today. You see the people crowding around you? His disciples answered. And yet you ask who touched me? Well who do you think touched me, Jesus? How about the 40 people all walking around you waiting to get to Jerry's house? Like it seems like a silly question to them. The idea of who touched me when you're in a crowd full of people that are all bustling in to watch the Savior do this miraculous healing that he's already been doing on both sides of the Sea of Galilee. What I want you to see about Jesus' question is this. Jesus knew there was a difference between all of the people bumping into him and the one person coming to him. Jesus knew that there was a difference between all of the crowd that was there to bump into him and watch and the one person who was there seeking him and only him. And that's who he asked. Who touched me? And of course the disciples get all jersey on him and like what do you think? Who touched you? And then in verse 32, look at this. He kept looking around to see who had done it. Jason, he's looking for the one. In the midst of all the faces, he knows, his divine nature knows that someone came to me in faith. Not this whole crowd of spectators. Not all these people that just want to see the cool miracles. No, in the midst of all of these faces, there is someone, one person who came to me, who sought me in faith. Now obviously, he's fully God. I do want to point out that you don't get to steal healing from God. This is not like this woman came up and picked his supernatural pocket and stole healing from him. His divine nature intentionally healed her because he knew he approached in faith. So why is Jesus asking the question? If Jesus knows and the woman knows, who's the question for? The crowd. Because she knows she was healed. We saw that she felt it in her body. He knows that she was healed because he felt power go out. The only reason you ask the question is to make a teaching moment for all of those other people in the crowd who are just there to spectate. He says, no, no, no, no, no. And then he keeps looking. Then take a look in verse 33. The woman, knowing what had happened to her, what does she know? She knows that for 12 years she has suffered and in a moment of the Savior's presence she has been healed. Then knowing what had happened to her, she came and fell at his feet. That word is the same word that we get our English word prostrate from. It literally means to fall forward in a sign of humility, of submission and subjugation. She fell at his feet also, i.e. to worship him. She fell at his feet, trembling with fear, and told the whole truth. Cue the law and order. The whole truth. What did she tell? What did she tell? What's the whole truth in this story? She had to start with, she is, what else? What's the whole truth? Just think about it for a second. The whole truth. She's ceremonial, unclean, she pushed her way through the whole crowd. That's part of the whole truth. She's tried every other earthly thing she could find. That's part of the whole truth. How long has she been suffering? 12 years. What's the cause of her suffering? She's been isolated. She's not been able to worship. She spills all of the beans. Why? Because that's not her identity anymore. Was she afraid to admit to what she's been through? Yes, she is. We see that here. But she tells him the whole truth. Why? Because she already knows she's been healed. We saw that like three verses ago. She felt in her body that she was healed. Why do I need to fear the Savior when he has already cleansed me? Now what is she honestly doing? She is giving her testimony to the crowd. Why? Because they didn't know. No one else in the crowd knew that that one face... Yes, absolutely. Now here's the interesting question. Since we're going to stick with that, I like it. As a woman ceremonially unclean, anyone that she touched should have been ceremonially unclean. So in her perspective, she may very well think that she caused the Savior to be ceremonially unclean. And he said, no, no, no, no, no, you don't understand. I'm the one who makes people clean. You can't make me dirty. And then he responds, daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be freed from your suffering. She lays out her entire testimony in front of this huge crowd of people. Now keep in mind, why are the people following Jesus in the first place? What are they going to see? That's why I made sure we went back and looked at those opening verses first. Where is Jesus on his way to? Jairus' home. To do what? To heal. That means this whole crowd is wanting to see a healing. This whole crowd is expecting. They have the faith to see a healing. What did they just see? A healing on the way to another healing. It's not that the crowd didn't want to see it, but they didn't know. They weren't aware. Why? Because she snuck up behind Jesus. She snuck through the crowd just to touch the outside hem of his garment. And it's not until verse 33 when she told him the whole truth that everybody else actually found out and they were a part of the story. Until this point, we're all just walking on, dopey-doh, let's get to Jairus' house. Nobody was aware except for the woman in need and the Savior who supplies. No one else in the crowd was aware until Jesus kept looking. Now obviously, Jesus knew who she was, but he gave her the time to come forward himself. I love that. Even in his grace, he gives us time to get over our own insecurities and fears. He kept looking in 32, and then she responds to the Savior looking for her in 33. And she tells the story. She drops this amazing testimony of healing in a crowd of people who are following Jesus to see a healing. And then in verse 34, what does she get? Number one, Jesus addresses her as daughter. In the Greek, it means exactly that. My female child. So what's the first thing she got out of it? Intimate relationship with the Savior. He called her daughter from then on. Most modern scholars would agree this is because at this point she has expressed saving faith in the Savior and become His child. Because the Greek literally means my female child, my daughter. Second, not only does she have a relationship with the Savior, second, she's completely healed. Your faith has healed you. She has a relationship with the Savior. She's healed and restored. Third, go in peace. For 12 years she's lived in suffering. And in an instantaneous moment of the Savior, she gets relationship with Him. She gets fully healed. And now she gets to go in peace. I cannot express to you, those of you who may have lived through stressful times in your life, do you remember that moment when peace finally came in and you were like, I can breathe again? Sometimes peace in and of itself can be an amazing blessing. So go in peace and then finally be freed from your suffering. Be freed from it. Why do I love this story? Because Jesus, I love the fact that we know Jesus is a healer, we see that. But Jesus took a moment while He was on His way to do something else. To do something miraculous. A lot of times in my, and I'll admit, sometimes in my prayer life, have you ever gotten to the point where you are praying and you just sort of think that your prayers or your problems are insignificant enough that there's enough people in the world that are probably praying for bigger things, like persecution in Syria or church planting in China, and I'm praying about my stubbed toe, and I think to myself, Lord, I'm sorry that I'm bothering you with such an insignificant detail of my ADHD life. But I get that way sometimes. And I feel like that my problems maybe aren't significant enough to be front row for Jesus. That what's going on with me is probably not as great as someone else, and so maybe I should just let God be God and not approach Him. And then I think of this story. And I think about the fact that this woman began this story, tired, exhausted, broke, hopeless, but she had just enough faith to not even want to get in front of Jesus and make herself the point. And I think if we're all honest with ourselves, at any given moment there's people who walk into church who have things going on in their life that they would really not like a spotlight shined on. I think we can identify with this woman. She didn't want to make herself the big deal. She didn't want to make herself the issue, but she still wanted Jesus. And she was willing to push past her exhaustion and her insecurities and say, If I could just. If I could just. Those four words embody all of the faith it takes to be healed, to be restored, to be filled, to be saved, and to be free.