We are in a series entitled parables, the stories of the Savior. Jesus often used parables or stories or fables in order to teach spiritual principles. And if you pay attention closely, what you notice is He often picks stories based upon His audience and who He is teaching. Now last week we were in Luke 15 and we looked at the parable of the lost sheep and the lost coin. And I mentioned last week that we're going to finish that chapter this week. And the parable, or what most people will call the parable of the prodigal son, I'm going to teach it this morning as the parable of the two sons. Because I think the title prodigal, Beth, it gives you the idea that He's the main focus of the story. The reality is there are two brothers in this story. So if you brought your Bibles with you this morning, whether they're physical or digital, will you please turn or click with me to the Gospel of Luke 15. Luke 15. We're going to begin our reading this morning in verse 11. So this is Luke 15. We're going to begin in verse 11. I will also have it for you here on the screen. And this translation is the NIV, or the New International Version. So Luke 15, beginning in verse 11. I'll try to stand out of the way. All right, here's what the Scriptures say. Jesus continued, There was a man who had two sons. The younger one said to his father, Father, give me my share of the estate. So he divided his property between them. Not long after that, the younger son got together all he had and set off for a distant country. And there he squandered his wealth in wild living. After he had spent everything, there was a severe famine in that whole country, and he began to be in need. So he went and hired himself out to a citizen of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed pigs. He longed to fill his stomach with the pods that the pigs were eating, but no one gave him anything. When he came to his senses, he said, How many of my father's hired servants have food to spare? And here I am starving to death. I will set out and go back to my father and say to him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me like one of your hired servants. So he got up and went to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and was filled with compassion for him. He ran to his son, threw his arms around him and kissed him. The son said to his father, Father, I have sinned against Heaven and against you, and I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his servants, Quick, bring the best robe and put it on him. Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. Bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let's have a feast and celebrate. For this son of mine was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. So they began to celebrate. Meanwhile, the older son was in the field. When he came near the house, he heard music and dancing. So he called one of the servants and asked him what was going on. Your brother has come, he replied. And your father has killed the fattened calf because he was lost and I believe, and found. Pass him back safe and sound, thank you. The older brother became angry and refused to go in. So his father went out and pleaded with him. But he answered his father, Look, all these years I've been slaving for you and I've never disobeyed your orders. Yet you never gave me even a young goat so that I could celebrate with my friends. But when this son of yours who has squandered your property with prostitutes comes home, you kill the fattened calf for him. My son, the father said, You are always with me and everything I have is yours. But we had to celebrate and be glad because this brother of yours was dead and is alive again. And he was lost and is found. Fantastic parable. I would probably argue if it's not the single best parable in all of scripture, it's got to be top three. Even people who are outside of Christian circles and literary scholars prize the parable of the prodigal for its storytelling technique. It's studied even in secular literature as a fantastic example of a storytelling. Before we get into breaking down this parable and seeing where it's at and what it teaches, we just need to have some background. So I believe I also left for you in your bulletin. No, I didn't. I took them out. Yes, I left a little spot there that says Sermon Notes. So if there's anything I say this morning that you find particularly interesting, please feel free to use your bulletin right now. Originally I had blanks to fill in, and then we had so many prayer requests come in that it's more important to pray for people than it is to write stuff down that the preacher says. So we cut the sermon notes out so we could include more prayer requests. So a few things I'd like to show you this morning. First is this. The audience that Jesus is teaching is the sinner and the self-righteous. Jesus is teaching both the sinner and the self-righteous. If you scroll all the way back to verse 1 of what we read, Jesus continued, there was a man who had two sons. I'm sorry, that's verse 11. Jesus continued, there was a man who had two sons. That's the beginning of our parable this morning. A man had two sons. Oddly enough, when we call it the parable of the prodigal son, we all want to focus on the lost guy. And that's great. And the story of the lost son being found is beautiful and it's fantastic. But if you call it the parable of the prodigal son and you stop reading it when the prodigal comes home, you miss half, a full 50% of what Jesus was trying to teach. Now, if we go back to verses 1 and 2 of chapter 15, now we see the context. Now the tax collectors and sinners were all gathering around to hear Jesus. And in verse 2, but the Pharisees and teachers of the law muttered, This man welcomes sinners and eats with them. This is the audience to whom which Jesus is teaching. He has got a crowd of people. Half of them are tax collectors and sinners. The other half are Pharisees and teachers. Now, what I will say is, the reality is the entire audience is sinful. You know what the difference is between the sinful audience and the religious elite audience? It's Pete. The people who are tax collectors and sinners know they're sinners. The people who are the Pharisees and teachers of the religious law think they're not. The reality is Jesus is teaching an entire group of sinners. Half of them know they are sinners. The other half is so self-righteous that they think that they're holy when they really are not. This is the audience to which Jesus lays up the parable, a man had two sons. So when you see the audience, obviously, one son represents one half of our audience and the other son represents the other half. So let's take a look. First, the younger son represents the sinners. I'll get to the second half of the audience in a moment, but the sinners. These are the people who knowingly know they're sinners. They are cognizant and conscious of the reality that they do not live up to God's standards. Interestingly, verse 1 also says tax collectors. These are people who are Jewish, who are not very well liked by the rest of their Jewish brethren because they're taking Jewish money and giving it to Romans because at this point in history, the Romans are militarily occupying the Jewish nation and you're going to pay your taxes to the Romans or the Romans are going to kill you and your whole family and take their taxes anyway. So the Jewish tax collectors play a vital role, but nobody really likes them very much. I said this the other week when we talked about it. Does anybody have a really good friend who works at the IRS? Thank you. The IRS. You actually have a friend who works at the IRS? That's fantastic. You were the first person in ten years of teaching that I have found who has a friend who works at the IRS. What's that? Yeah, but I don't pay attention when you talk. When your mother says something, it's important. Sorry, you walked into that. The younger son represents the sinners. Take a look at verse 12. When we start getting into what the younger, the younger son said to his father, Father, give me my share of the estate. Stop. This is a big deal. This is a very big statement. In essence, what the younger son is saying is he's saying, Dad, you are dead to me. I no longer love you. I do not care about you. The only thing you are valuable to me for is the money that I will get when you die and I'm tired of waiting. Just give me the money and I'm out. It's a very, very disrespectful, hateful, unloving thing to say to a father. Father, give me my, he's talking about his share of the inheritance that he would get when his father dies. And he's saying, you know what? Dad, you are so dead to me. Will you just write me a check and I never want to see you again. I'm out. That's the heart behind the younger son. Look at verse 13. Not long after that. That, to underline its circle, long press and highlight, not long after that is a great phrase. Because what does it say? Levi, in verse 12, what's funny is the dad actually gives him the money. He didn't have to. The father could have said, get out of here. I'm the dad. I'm running this show. But he doesn't. The father actually acquiesces to the disrespectful, hateful young son. Father, give me my share of the estate. So he divided his property between them. So any of you who really like studying the Bible, you want to know, what was the younger son's share of the inheritance? Everybody wants to think 50%, right? Because the older son gets 50, the younger son gets 50. That would be wrong. Because if you go to the Old Testament, what you find out is the firstborn, the firstborn son, who is technically the older son, he gets double the portion of the younger son. So technically we're talking about one third. Those of you who want that detail, the younger son collects one third of his father's inheritance. The two-third belongs to the firstborn son or the older brother. Not long after that. Isn't it amazing how short of a patience sin really has? Sin is the tyranny of the urgent. Whenever you are being tempted by something sinful, it doesn't like to wait. Sin always wants you in it and involved in it immediately. The urgency of a lustful draw, and I don't mean just physical sense of lust, he's gambling, he's doing a lot of other things. The urgency of sin is very powerful. Not long after he got his hands on the money, he set off for a distant country. Now again, if Jesus' primary audience are Jews, distant countries are telling us it's a Gentile audience. Kayla, this is not a country that has Jewish people. We're going to a country majority run by Gentiles. He set off for a distant country and there squandered his wealth in wild living. I find it amazingly interesting when I look at James 1, verses 14 and 15. You don't have to turn there, I'll read it. Temptation comes from our own desires which entice us and drag us away. These desires give birth to sinful actions, and when sin is allowed to grow, it gives birth to, anybody know the last word? Death. It gives birth to death. Lust gives to sin, gives to death. And if we look at what the younger son does here in verse 13, he travels off to a foreign land, he gets deep involved in sin, and he basically brings death to his money. He kills all, he squanders all of that resources. Then, let's take a look at 14. After he spent everything, so we don't really know how long it took him to troll through one third of his father's estate, because we don't exactly know how big the estate was. He trolls through, after he spent everything, there was a severe famine. Again, if you put yourself in the shoes of the younger son, and you're not really paying attention to things like savings, or holiness, or righteousness, it's often interesting that sin doesn't really have a perspective for what happens next. It's only interesting, Nancy, what can I have right now? Sin wants in the right now, I've got to have it now, got to have it now, got to have it now. Once I've got it, what do I need? I need more of it now. Sin doesn't have a perspective for what happens next. So in verse 14, he's now trapped in the whole country, a whole Gentile country, and he began to be in need. Verse 15, so he went and hired himself out to a citizen. So what is the ultimate fruit of the younger, disrespectful son's sinful behavior? Slavery. Isn't it interesting how we all become slaves to sin in one way or another? So he hired himself out to a citizen of that country who sent him to the field to feed pigs. Now remember, Jesus' audience is primarily Jewish. So what do you think? Just put yourself in the shoe for a minute. How do you think a first century Jewish man would feel about being owned, he's a slave at this point, being a slave to a Gentile pig owner, and now my job is to go feed pigs? If you're not familiar with the Old Testament, I'll give you the hint. Pigs are a very unclean animal. God has declared all, that's why Jews are not allowed to eat bacon, and I pray for them all the time. Because that's such a hard thing. Like, what are my three favorite things in life? Jesus, my wife and kids, bacon. Like, bacon is a wonderful thing, but to a first century Jew, Miss Ilona, pigs are incredibly vile, incredibly unclean. So for a first century Jewish man to be a slave of a Gentile in a foreign land having to feed pigs, this is like the lowest of the low, Miss Sharon, it's rock bottom, we don't get any worse than this. I am a slave to a Gentile and I'm feeding unclean pigs, and yet we can go a step lower. He longed to fill his stomach with the pods that the pigs were eating, and no one gave him anything. I did a little research trying to figure out what kind of pods are they feeding to the pigs, and there is a plant in this area that grew that was undigestible to the human digestive system. So they fed it to the pigs, because it would grow, and it would grow in abundance, but we couldn't digest it. That's why it wasn't suitable for human consumption. But pigs will eat pretty much anything you put in front of them. So they would use this plant as pig feed, because you couldn't eat it as a human being. You couldn't digest it at all. And this is the very type of plant that this young Jewish boy is considering eating now. He's so low that he's a slave of a Gentile wallowing around with pigs, and now he's so low that he's starving, and Pete, he wants to eat food he can't even digest. This is the product of giving into sin, slavery to that which is vile and disgusting and evil, and the desire for nourishment for that which can never satisfy. That's where this young man has found himself. Then, the lost son remembers home. The lost son remembers home. And he kind of pops up out of himself in verse 17, I love that. When he came to his senses. The literal in the Greek says, when he arrived or came to himself. Like, I wasn't myself. I don't know where I was, I just wasn't myself. And then all of a sudden, poof! It's like he had to return to himself. Well, in English we would say, he came to his senses. When he came to his senses, he said, Here I am starving to death. Something I think that is incredibly amazing about verse 17. He doesn't think of his father as his father. He thinks of his father as a servant owner. He didn't say, Brian, you know, I remember living in Dad's house. We always had barbecue. No. He said, how many of my father's servants? Because he had made himself a servant in the Gentile land. He was identifying with the servants in his father's house. Not his brother. Not a son, but a servant. How many of my father's hired servants have food to spare? And here I am starving to death. Verse 18. I will set out and go back. Do me a favor. Underline, highlight, circle. Long press on the screen and drag over it. That beginning of verse 18 is one of the pivotal moments in this parable. I will set out and go back. It's a two-step process. Set out and go back. Literally, in the Greek it means I will get up and go home. I will get up and go home. I'm going to sneeze. Thank you. You're lucky. That was only three. Normally it's like nine in a row. I will set out and go back. In the Greek, I will get up and go home. And then he says, Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. Sining against heaven is a Greek colloquialism, or a Jewish colloquialism written in Greek, so that they didn't have to say I've sinned against God. Sining against heaven is sinning against God. But remember, first century Jews don't like to speak the name of God. So they have a euphemism. I've sinned against heaven. Meaning I've sinned against God and I've sinned against you. But what I love about this is he recognizes his actions as sin. Jason, he doesn't go home and go, oops, Dad, my bad. Sorry about that. Took my gap year. Turned it into a gap decade. No. He said, I will get up and I will go back and I will say, Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. And then look here at verse 19. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. While the younger son is still in the Gentile homeland, still serving the pigs, he comes upon revelation. Miss Pauli, you know what he gets? Here in verse 19, I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Why am I no longer worthy? Because my sin has completely separated me from my Father. He comes upon this realization that my sin has separated me, has broken relationship with my Father. Make me like one of your hired servants. So not only does he identify with the servants in his Father's home, West, when he goes home, he's not going home to ask for sonship back. In his mind, that ship has already sailed. I'm out. I'm done. I'm never going to be restored. I said to my Father, you're dead to me. And I walked out with a check. There's no way I'm going to get to go back and be a son. But maybe, just maybe, if my Father's loving enough, I can go back and be a slave. But at least a slave in my Father's house is better than a slave in a Gentile house. So his perspective going home is my desire is to become a slave in my Father's house. And then of course, here you've got to see this. The Father meets him with compassion. He's expecting anger. As well you should. If you said to me, you're dead to me, write me a check. And then you come back after that didn't go so well, yes, you're probably going to be expecting an I told you so kind of speech. And you probably would have earned it. And so he's going back, just merely wanting to ask to be a servant. And then here look at verse 20. But while he was still a long way off, his Father saw him. Pete, how do you see somebody coming a long way off? You have to be looking. That's exactly right. Now one could say, well, you know, hey Don, maybe he was just walking by the kitchen window. And he just happened to look out across the field. Yes, but that's not really the connotation of what it says. What it says is, while he was still a long way off, his Father saw him and was filled with compassion for him. And he ran to his son. The running to the son, Brian, it kind of rules out the accidental seeing from a long way off. No, the Father was looking for his son. He was waiting for him to come home. While he was still a long way off, the Father saw him, was filled with compassion, and ran to him. This is what I want you to see. The son didn't make it home. The Father closed the distance to the son and met him where he was at. The son's coming home to ask to be a slave because, Jeannie, I've already ruined my opportunity to be a son. Maybe I can be a slave in my Father's house. And the Father doesn't even wait for him to get there. The Father closes the distance between he and the son, symbolically, restoring their relationship. And then look, in verse 20, the younger son starts to give the speech that he's prepared for his dad. Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Verse 22. But the Father said to his servants, quick. The Father stopped and interrupted him. The Father interrupted. What was the rest of his speech? What was the next line? Don't look back. What was the next line the younger son was going to say to his father? I am no longer worthy to be your son. Let me be a slave. The Father cuts him off. He lets him admit to his sin. The Father lets him admit to his sin. That's legit. That's real. But he does not let him revoke his own sonship. The Father says, no, no, no, no, no, no, quick. Bring me, and there's three things here. The best robe, put it on him. Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. These three symbols are very large. So let me break it down. The robe, specifically the best robe, is a symbol of honor. Think, those of you who may know the story of Joseph from the book of Genesis and the coat of many colors, or the Technicolor dreamcoat for those of you who are Broadway fans. What did the coat signify for Joseph among all of his brothers? Honor. Speciality. The robe. And now specifically Scripture says it was the best robe. Who wears the best robe in the house? The daddy. That's exactly right. The Father went and got his own robe and put it on his son. Then he put a ring on his finger. So the robe is a symbol of authority. The ring, excuse me, the robe is a symbol of honor. The ring is a symbol of authority. Think again for Joseph. When Pharaoh made Joseph high regent of all Egypt, what did he give him? A ring. He gave him a ring. A signet ring. And that was a symbol of authority. Because with that ring came the authority to put down the royal seal. So the robe is honor. The ring is a symbol of authority. And here come the sandals. The sandals to me, Miss Fran, are the most beautiful aspect of the gifts. Because the sandals are what establishes the difference between sons and servants. Sons don't go barefoot. Because keep in mind, in this day and time, not everybody had a pair of Nike's. Shoes were not common apparel for everybody. I'm sorry, I left all the Reebok fans out. You can have Reeboks if you want. The sandals are the Father restoring the son to full sonship. Because what did he ask for? I've sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Let me be a servant. If Mr. Charles, if he was to walk away a servant, he would have walked back barefoot. But the Father says, no, no, no, no. Go get my robe. Go get me a ring. And put some sandals on my boy's feet. He's my son. He's no longer a servant. The Father does not even let him make the offer. And he fully restores him. Then in verse 23, we get an even deeper picture of the Father's relationship. He said, bring the fattened calf and kill it. Now here's a little cultural background. Every family in the first century Near East World kept cattle. Because they butchered their own cattle, they made their own food. But Miss Lorraine, everybody had a specific calf that was raised from birth and fed choice foods. And made to be big and plump and fat for a reason. The animal was fed and bred to be food. Not just to be food, but to be choice, celebratory food. The fattened calf was held for times of great celebration when you would invite the surrounding community. Like a wedding. A wedding is the size of celebration I want you to picture. When you're calling in your neighbors from everybody's back 40. And we're killing the fattened calf, y'all were throwing down. This is the party of parties that we could possibly do. This is the single greatest type of party that we can host. That's why I would say our modern day wedding celebrations are pretty deep in the party world. This is the significance of the fattened calf. And let's have a feast. That means he invited people outside of his home. Miss Sharon, this is not Thanksgiving dinner with the family. This is Thanksgiving dinner with the family and the whole block coming over to celebrate. That's what the fattened calf and the feast. For this, my favorite three words in this whole parable, son of mine. See, whilst the son thought he was no longer worthy to have a relationship with the father, the father never stopped having relationship with the son. The son saw himself as revoked and degenerate and broken in relationship from his father. But the father never saw him as anything other than his own son. This son of mine was dead and is alive again. That word dead in the Greek is nekros. N-E-K-R-O-S. It is the root word where we get our prefix nekro as in, I'm trying to think of a church appropriate word that starts with nekro. A necropsy. Have you ever heard of what a necropsy is? It's an autopsy that's done on an animal. Autopsies are only done on humans. Necropsies are done on every other form of animal. Necromancy. What's that? Tissue becomes necrotic. Yes, and that word means of death. In fact, the Greek word nekros literally means corpse or that which is unliving. And then he says, my son was a corpse and is alive again. Or if I could rephrase, my son was dead and has been resurrected. What is alive again other than life coming out of death. My son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. If you remember the parables from last week, the lost sheep was lost and found. The lost coin was lost and found. Here the lost son was lost and found. So they began to celebrate. Now that would be, Miss Nancy, that would match the end of the other two parables. The other two parables in this previous chapter both ended with a large group of people celebrating the finding. The shepherd called together all of his posse and his friends and celebrated the finding of the sheep. The woman who was looking for the coin called together all her circle of friends. And they had a tea party celebrating the finding of the coin. Here the father calls together all of his friends and begins to celebrate. But, Bethy, let's just be honest. We could grab the piano, close it out, and it would be an absolutely super fun Jesus-focused teaching. But it's not where Jesus stopped. There's another son in the picture. There's another half of the audience. The older son represents the self-righteous portion of Jesus' audience. Everything I've just said is super great. It preaches good. We could have shut it down and run a hymn, and people come to Jesus and it's great. But that's not everything Jesus had to teach in the story. The older son represents the self-righteous half of Jesus' audience. The teachers of religious law, the Pharisees. Take a look at verse 20. Meanwhile, the older son was in the field, signifying that he'd been working the whole time, which in a minute he's going to try to brag on. When he came near the house, he heard music and dancing. That means the whole exchange between the father and the younger son happened without the knowledge of the older son. Because he had to show up and go, hey man, what happened? That means he doesn't know. Verse 26. So he called one of the servants and asked him what was going on. Verse 27. Your brother has come, he replied, killed the fattened calf because he is back safe and sound. Or no. Your brother has come, he replied, and your father has killed the fattened calf because he is back safe and sound. Verse 28. And the older brother became angry and refused to go in. I don't know about you, but this seems counterintuitive, doesn't it? This parable of the lost sheep ended with celebration at the finding of something lost. The parable of the lost coin ended in celebration of the finding of something lost. The parable of the lost son ends in angry about something being lost. Jesus diverges from the original two to make a point. The older son responds in anger, but the father responded in compassion. What does that tell you about whether the older son really knew his father's heart? He responds in anger and in jealousy and then refused to go in to the party. Now again, you've got to remember first century culture. Pete, this is really disrespectful. Just like the younger son was disrespectful at the beginning of the story. And I told you, both audiences are sinners. Here the older son is being disrespectful by not honoring that which the father honors. And look, the father has to go out and plead with him. So in both instances, the father had to leave his home and close distance to both sons. But one came back repentant and one dug his feet in the ground and said, Uh-uh, I'm not celebrating my brother coming home. It's my house. Look at verse 29. But the father answered, look. But he answered to his father, look. And now he brags about two specific things. Number one, all these years I have been slaving for you and I have never disobeyed your orders. Stop. What is he trying to say about himself? All these years, meaning now we at least get a picture that the younger son has been gone for what? Something that equals years. Actually, something that equals all these years. It's not like simply like two years. We've got to have enough years that say all these years. And then he brags about himself. I have been A, slaving for you. B, never disobeyed your orders. Now remember, this is the self-righteous religious group we're talking about here. They are convinced that they're pleasing God with the way they're living. All these years, I've been in church. All these years, I've given in the offering. I've volunteered in the nursery. God, I've done everything you wanted me to do. And yet you never even gave me a young goat so I could celebrate with my friends. Interestingly, what did the older brother want? To party. What did the younger brother want? To party. Maybe the older brother is not quite as different from his younger sibling as he thinks he is. But verse 30, But when this son of yours, look at that, he doesn't even recognize him as his brother. But when this son of yours, he doesn't, he could have said, Nancy, he could have said, but when my brother, he didn't. He said, this son of yours. He's still saying, you're dead to me, my younger brother. This son of yours, who has squandered your property with prostitutes comes home and you kill the calf. He compares, you didn't even give me a young goat, which would have been a small celebration. But you kill the fattened calf and you rent out the civic center and throw a party for my younger brother. Let's go to the next verse, verse 31. And then the father tries to remind him, You were always with me and everything I have is yours. But we had to celebrate and be glad, because your brother was dead and is found. Remember the setting. Half of Jesus' audience are sinners who know they're sinners and who want to hear the teachings of Jesus. The other half of the audience, and I'm in no way signifying different halves of the church. I can just say that up front. I'm in no way pointing, saying that you guys are the sinners and you're all the self-righteous. You can go either way. Half of Jesus' audience knows they're in the wrong. The other half of Jesus' audience thinks they're in the right. And Jesus makes a point of the older brother's anger in wanting to celebrate the finding of the younger son. Because if you go all the way back to verse 2 of chapter 15, look at the Pharisees and teachers of religious law. Look at their response to the sinners coming to Jesus. They weren't happy about it. They were jawing him for it. They were chiding him for it. They were so wrapped up in their own self-righteous religiosity that they couldn't even be happy for that which God himself was happy for, which is the sinners coming home. They were so wrapped up in their self-righteousness that they couldn't even see it. Jesus concludes the parable with the same message that the previous two parables concluded in. The large celebration of the lost thing being found. The difference in the parable of the two sons versus the previous two parables is we get, Jesus gets to stick it to the religious elite. And he points out the hypocrisy that you claim to know God. You claim to serve God. You claim to serve in God's house and in God's temple. But you lack the compassion of God's heart. And when you look at the attitudes of the two sons, the younger son, Wes, comes to the father and says, I deserve nothing. And the father says, but you're still my son. The older son goes to the father and says, but dad, I deserve more. And the father says, but you're still my son. The father's compassion for both groups of people is the same. Because technically both groups of people are sinners. Both groups of people are lost. The difference is the younger son was willing to acknowledge his own sin. Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. But then he took it too far. I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. The father has the same response to both halves of the audience. You're still my son. He said to the older son, all I have is yours. But you need to get over yourself and realize that your brother was net cross. Your brother was dead. Because what did he say to his father? You're dead to me. The father has the same response to both sons. My question for you today is which son are you?