If you did not join us last week, the reason I'm dressed in my medical outfit is our new teaching series is entitled, Habits for Health. And I want to talk about being healthy. I know that's an oxymoron with the 300 pound fat guy talking about trying to be healthy. But I want to talk about your spiritual health. I want to talk about simple, basic habits that you should have if you consider yourself to be a spiritually healthy person. So before we get into the message, we've got a couple of foundations we've got to have here. First, what is a habit? A habit is an acquired behavior regularly followed until it becomes involuntary. And that last word is the most important word on the screen. If you have to remind yourself to do something, surprise, not a habit. A habit is something that you do not have to remind yourself to do. A habit can also be something that you don't like to do. And there are things as bad habits and good habits. What's the difference? We call a habit bad when its effectual outcome on our daily lives is negative. Last week we listed a bunch of bad habits. Somebody listed smoking cigarettes. I think that's a great example of a bad habit. Now, for those who have ever battled with quitting smoking, you know it's not necessarily something I want to do all the time. Sometimes it's a habit. I'm just doing it. And if I'm not conscious and catching myself, I just end up doing it. That's the example of a habit. However, we call a habit good when its effectual outcome on our daily lives is positive. So we call a habit bad if its overall outcome in my life is negative. And we call a habit good if its overall outcome is positive. But what both of these statements have in common is, Mr. Pete, you shouldn't have to remind yourself to do either one. We have to admit, going into this, we have bad habits. We also have good habits. And we define those by the way they affect our lives. Now, this morning we're going to talk about the habit, or I'm sorry, key thought. Thank you, Zach. Key thought. My habits determine my health. Say this with me. My habits determine my health. One more time so I can hear you. My habits determine my health. Now that we have established that a habit is something you do not have to remind yourself to do, and that the good or bad declaration of that habit is its effectual outcome on your life, I need you to understand this simple reality. That the habits you have determine your health. And that's not just physical, that's also spiritual. The spiritual habits that you have today are the effectual measurement, or the Rorschach test of your spiritual health as you sit here today. What are your spiritual habits? Some are good, some are bad. This morning I want to bring to you another healthy habit, and that is the Bible. Specifically, the time you spend with the Bible. Do you read it? Do you study it? Those are not the same thing. Reading the Bible, studying the Bible are not the same thing. What kind of habit do you have? And remember when I say the word habit, Miss Kim, I mean that you don't have to remind yourself to read your Bible. I mean something you do because you are so used to it. Miss Lorraine, you're trained to it. You desire it, you love it. It's just like breathing. It is part of your day. What is the Bible like in your everyday life? You don't have to answer, but if you want to elbow your neighbor, that's totally cool. What is the Bible like in your everyday life? Now I want to start this morning with a little bit of a story. Pastors, we love our stories, we love our examples. So here's a short story for you. There are two brothers who are foraging in the woods. They're going through the woods, they're looking for something to eat, and they happen upon an open field, and Zach, in the middle of this field, there is a beautiful fruit tree, laden, burdened with beautiful, yummy, ripe, ready-to-eat fruit. So like any young man, they sit down and start to chow down. And they eat their fill until both young men are completely full of whatever this delicious fruit is growing on the tree. Then one young man says to the other, he says, you know what? We need to remember where this tree is. We can come back here. He goes, no, no, no, why don't we just take the fruit with us? Oh, that's a lot smarter. Let's go ahead and take some with us so we can eat it. So one young man, he takes off his shirt, and he ties up the sleeves, and he basically makes himself a little basket, and he's picking every bit of fruit that he can, and he fills up a shirt, and he takes it home. And he's got at least a couple days' worth of fruit. The other brother says, you know what? I have a better idea. He runs home, he gets a shovel, he digs up the roots of that tree, and he plants the tree by his house. So he has fruit whenever he wants. Now the first brother ate his fill, as did the second. The first brother took enough food with him for a few days. But the second brother never had to look again for more fruit. That's the Bible in your spiritual life. When you come on Sunday mornings, hopefully something that I say gives you something new. Maybe you learn something new. Maybe you're inspired. But this is only eating the tree in the middle of the woods. If you don't take the tree home with you, if you don't eat it day after day after day, then just admit the only time I look at the Bible is when I go to church. And that's a habit. That's a habit. I don't have to remind myself of it. My habit is I talk about the Bible at church, but not Monday through Saturday when I'm at home. Yes, I'm already at my high gear. It's okay. I promise. We'll make it through it. What is your habit like? Here's my first point this morning. I'm going to give you five reasons, five things the Bible does, why it should be a habit in your daily life. Number one, the Bible teaches us how to live. Very famous verse for anybody who studied the Bible or theology. 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17. This right here is in the N.C.V. or the New Century Version. All scripture is inspired by God and useful for teaching, for showing people what is wrong in their lives, for correcting faults and for teaching how to live right. Using the scriptures, the person who serves God will be capable of having all that is needed to do every good work. I love the way the New Century gets that second verse in there. Using the scriptures, the person who serves God will be capable. The Bible is the only book on the planet that can teach you to live in a godly fashion. I mean, Mr. Pete, let's just drop the mic, call it amen, play a hymn and be out. The Bible is the only book on the planet that can teach you to live in a manner that honors God. Now, yes, are there great Christian authors who write awesome books? Absolutely. But all of the true knowledge of how to please God comes from His Word first. Now, can somebody write an awesome commentary and Jason help me to learn more about God's Word? Yeah, totally. And I think that studying the Bible is absolutely a necessity for life. But don't get it backwards. Don't run to whoever your favorite Christian author is and get their opinion on how to live to please God. Go to the source. How about you just read His Word, right, Ryan? Let's just read His Word and I'll live the way He tells me to. But this verse has a little more to offer. Number one, that word inspired, the fourth word in that sentence. That is not inspired like the way a life inspires a Hollywood movie or a Hallmark card. That word inspiration in the Greek literally means God breathed. That all scripture is literally God breathed. It is the actual breathed out Word of God. Now, we can have a conversation about how was the Bible handed down? How was it translated? How was it transmitted? All of that is definitely good information. However, you cannot get past the simple reality that the Bible is the only book on the planet that has been written by the Creator God. And as such, it carries more authority than any other book out there. But then He tells us this is what the Bible should be doing for you. This is what it's good to do. It is useful for teaching, for showing people what is wrong in their lives. How many people love to read the Bible and find out I'm wrong? Well, hopefully if you read the Bible long enough, you have. If you haven't, then you're too prideful and you're not reading the right part. I'll help you find a good chapter. The Bible is the only book that can correct us when we're wrong. And by wrong, I mean outside of God's plan for my life. Not wrong in the sense of which shoes should I tie first or which pants should I wear today. Those are decisions that the Lord leaves up to us. But when I say wrong, I'm meaning what is in my life that is outside the will of God? What is in my life that doesn't please my Savior and for teaching us how to live right? And then here's a promise. Not only the information that the Bible is the only book that can teach us how to live, but here's a promise that if you use the Scriptures, the person who serves God will be capable having all that is needed to do every good work. If I told you all you had to do was read one book, and that book would do two things. Number one, it would give you everything you needed to know to have the most intimate relationship with the sovereign Creator of the world. And it would also help you to have an incredibly fruitful and blessed life. Would any of you stop what we're doing and not go get that book? The sad reality of our culture is our culture tries to chip away at the Bible and make it equal to other holy books and cast shade and cast doubt on its historical reliability so that we don't trust the Bible the way we should. The Bible is not just here to change your eternity. It's here to change your tomorrow. The Bible should teach us how to live every day while we're on this planet, while simultaneously preparing us for the next life when we're with him. Let's take a look at reason number two. The Bible speaks to our hearts. Hebrews 4, verse 12 in the English Standard Version says this, For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the vision of soul and spirit of joints and marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. How is the Bible the only book on the planet able to divide your soul from your spirit? Because it's written by the guy who made both. That's why. The Bible has more authority than any other book on the planet because of who its author is. It's the sovereign Creator of the world. Of course he knows what's in our deepest hearts. It's not like when you open your Bible the sin in your life is hidden from the Holy Spirit. God knows exactly what the sin in your life is. Before you walked in this door he did. That shouldn't keep us from examining the word of God and being changed by it. It should just let us admit the obvious reality that he's the sovereign, omniscient Creator, and I'm just one created being that he cares about. I find it so funny that sometimes people will get involved in something they know doesn't please God, so I'm going to just not have my quiet time today. It has really nothing to do with the fact that you're hiding your activity from God. What is it really? You don't want to have to admit to God that you know you're wrong and you're doing it anyway. So it's easier to skip spending time in God's word and then I can just justify to myself that I'm allowed to make my own choices. That it's okay for me to choose to do that. No, it's really not. It's okay for you to choose to live in a way that pleases God. But the word of God is also alive. I love this description. It is living and active. I can't tell you how many times, Dusty, that I've been reading the Bible, not like fortune cookie style, like just stick my finger and start reading, but I was reading on a plan, whether it's a chronological plan or a one-year Bible plan or whatever have you. And it's amazing how what I read was exactly what was going on in my life. The Holy Spirit just took those words right off the page, opened them up, and sewed them right into my heart in a way that needed to change something that was going on in my life. That's because the text of the Bible is not like a dictionary, the newspaper, or an encyclopedia. It literally has the power of the Almighty God in it. And His Spirit comes off the page and interjects in your life in a way that should ultimately transform us to be more godly. There's no other book on the planet that can claim that type of power, that it's living and active, sharper than a two-edged sword. I love the way this ends. Discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. You ever heard the phrase, be careful what you think because your thoughts become actions, be careful what you do because your actions become habits? The Bible knows what your heart is feeling before your mind even thinks it. Truthfully, Mr. Pete, the Bible might know what your heart is feeling before you're even aware that you're feeling it. Why would you not want to be able to look at your soul in the reflection of the one who made it and say, and say, Lord, what else in my life needs to be more like You? What else in my life needs to change so that I reflect Your Son more than I reflect myself? Take a look at number three. The Bible is the only book that can grow your faith. This may seem like an obvious point, but give me a minute. I promise I'm going somewhere with it. The Bible is the only book that can grow your faith. Romans chapter 10, verse 17 in the New King James says this, So then faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Zach, I have to admit, I really suck at gardening. I can't grow anything to save my life. If any of you have plants in your yard that you can't figure out how to kill, just ask me to come over and take care of them. And I promise they will be dead in quite short order. I'm very bad at gardening, but I have learned a few things. In order for a plant to grow, it needs the right kind of food. Oftentimes, I don't know what that is, and I feed it the wrong food, and it dies anyway. But I've learned that there are people that I can go ask who know more than I do, and who might be able to tell me whether that plant should be in full-on sunlight, or whether it should be in shade, or what time of year I should plant that plant, or what kind of fertilizer would be best to use, how much water should I give it, a lot of water should I not water it, should I just let it get watered. I can go to someone who knows way more than me, and what happens? The effectual outcome of my gardening skills would go up, because I would be learning and understanding more. The only way that you can improve your spiritual life skills is with the original gardener. He's the one that wrote the book. There is no book on the planet you can read that's going to grow your faith. I'm sorry, it's just not true. There are great Christian authors out there, and I love to read. I'm currently listening through another audiobook, and I'm having a blast. I love to learn, and I love to read. But Jason, the only thing that's going to grow my soul to be more like Christ is the living Word of God. And that only comes by spending time with it one-on-one. You can't, and let me say this, for anybody who's wondering where I'm going, I'll just say this point blank. You cannot grow to be a healthy Christian if the only time you listen to the Word of God is when you come to church. My job is not to give you your weekly dose of the Bible. And that's not my role. Scripture doesn't make that my role. My role is to hopefully teach you something new that you then take back with you on Monday when you get into the Bible for yourself. My role is to inspire you, maybe point out a flaw or a sin in your life that the Holy Spirit wants to take away. But please do not look at me as your microwave dinner tray of the Word of God for the week, and you're good to go until you come back next Sunday. I don't want that pressure. Why? Because, Kayla, I don't want to be responsible for your spiritual life Monday to Saturday. I've got enough going on in my own game to keep myself on task. My job this morning is to inspire you and to give you knowledge that you then take back with you Monday through Saturday when you spend time in God's Word. Because then He speaks to you directly. Never trust the pastor who wants to tell you what the Bible says and not let you read it for yourself. Right? I think that's pretty fair. Everyone would agree with that. We fought the Reformation over it a few hundred years ago. That man needed to be able to read the Bible in his own native language so that you could hear the Spirit of God speak directly and your faith is grown. Your knowledge can be grown through a good sermon, and I hope that I do that. But your faith is grown when you yourself spend time in the Bible and there is no replacement for it. You cannot replace your personal quiet time no matter how many podcasts and sermons you listen to. That does not mean you don't come to church next week. The Bible will always be true. I'm going to harp on this one for a second. For those of you who know me, you know I love apologetics. I love the rational defense of the Christian faith. I am currently going to school online to obtain a bachelor's degree and then I'm going to get a master's degree in apologetics. Because I believe this is where our culture is going. We need to fight for the fundamentals of our faith. So I'm going to harp on this point for a second because I think it needs to be made. The Bible is true whether you like it or not. The Bible is God's Word whether you agree with it or not. However, the Bible is a very complicated book. The Bible is not a book written by one person who just ran it off a press a few hundred years ago. The Bible is a very complex book. And in that complexity, people with other world views, atheists, agnostics, they want to try to point out all these contradictions that you find in the Bible. That there's no way the Bible can be true because of this. Or there's no way the Bible can be true because of that. Or there's no way the Bible can be true because of this. And they cherry pick all the time. I'm going to cherry pick exactly what I need to try to prove to you that the Bible is not true. I'm going to try in the next three minutes to prove to you why the Bible is the Word of God. Why the Bible is the Word of God. Is that okay? Alright, first thing I need you to understand. The Bible is not one book. How many books are in the Bible? Does anybody remember? Sixty-six. Sixty-six different books. Does anyone know how many human authors we think wrote the Bible? More than forty. More than forty because there's a few that we're not sure of. So it's possible that it's more than forty, but forty is the number. Sixty-six books written by more than forty human authors. Does anybody know how long it took the words of Scripture to be written? Fifteen hundred years. Sixty-six books written by more than forty human authors. Over fifteen hundred years. Does anybody know how many original languages Scripture was written in? Three. Three. And they are? For extra credit? Greek, Hebrew, and Aramaic. Greek, Hebrew, and Aramaic. That's right. Sixty-six books written by more than forty human authors in three original languages. Anybody know how many continents the Word of God was penned on? Three. Sixty-six books by more than forty human authors in three original languages on three different continents. Over a period of fifteen hundred years. And yet from Genesis to Revelation it tells one story of a God who died to save your soul. Please tell me how that's possibly an accident. How is it possible that sixty-six books by forty people over fifteen hundred years in three languages on three continents that tells one story could be an accident? As a way of trying to prove it to you, I have a little object lesson. Josh, you're sitting on the end so you get the fun job. Come here for a second. In this bowl I have slips of paper and each slip of paper has the name of one of the known Biblical authors. Okay, so I just pulled out a piece of paper and it says Paul on it. I'm going to shake them up. If it's possible, stand over here so everybody can see. If it's possible that the Bible is a random work of man. Mr. Brian, wait. Don't rush it. This is my sermon. Stop stealing my moment. Mr. Brian, please pick a book of the Bible. Anyone? Okay. Please pull the author of the book of Ruth. Did John write the book of Luke? The book of Ruth? No. In order for the Bible to be able to be a random work of man, you would have had to be able to call out all sixty-six books and Josh be able to pull all sixty-six authors right in a row. Now, maybe we're having a bad day. Mr. John, would you please pick a different book of the Bible? Okay, there's four different Johns. Which one do you mean? Third John. Third John. Could you please pull the author of Third John? What do you got? Paul. Did Paul write Third John? No. For someone to sit there and tell you that the Bible is a random work of man, it's literally this hard. And I haven't even gotten into that he can't read multiple languages and Josh is not 1,500 years old. Sixty-six books by forty human authors over 1,500 years in three original languages on three different continents does not come into one story without the divine work of God behind it. Fair enough? Everybody give Josh a hand. You can keep those. That's for you. There is no way. And yes, now I'll also say this. Recently a friend of mine sent me some YouTube videos that dealt with supposed contradictions in the Bible. And I watched both of them and sadly most of the counter arguments underneath of these videos, they're not really based in historical understanding of the Bible. So let me say two things. First, the Bible is completely inerrant. It has no errors in it whatsoever. But the doctrine of inerrancy does not apply to the Bibles that you're currently reading. The doctrine of inerrancy applies to the original autograph that Paul wrote, the original writing that Moses wrote. The doctrine of inerrancy does not cover translation and transmission. Now what I can tell you is we have a scientific process called textual criticism. And this process applies to more than just the Word of God. Textual criticism is used for every work of antiquity that's ever been written. That's the works of Homer, the Iliad, anything about Alexander the Great. Textual criticism is a scientific process. And what textual criticism does is it applies the multiple copies of any historical work that we have and it compares it to one another. So here's a basic example. Mr. Mark, let's say you write a letter. I'm going to say you're the Apostle Paul for instance. You write a letter and you give that letter to ten people in this room. And the ten of us who have that letter make ten copies. How many letters are existing right now? Mark wrote a letter, ten people got it, ten people got copies of his original letter, and then those ten people made copies. So somebody who's good at math. How many copies do I have left? One hundred and one. That's right. Now, Mark's original letter gets lost to time. Now how many letters do I have? One hundred. Now, in my letter, because I'm slightly dyslexic, he wrote the word from, F-R-O-M. And I accidentally wrote the word form, F-O-R-M. They call that a textual transposition. I got two letters backwards. Now, if my ten letters all say form instead of from, how many letters exist that don't have my mistake? Ninety. Ninety letters that can show me these ten letters, that's where my mistake came from. I made a mistake. That's a very simple explanation of the science of textual criticism. Now the reality is there are more than 25,000 copies of the New Testament in four different ancient languages, because we also have copies of the New Testament in Ethiopian. And when you compare all of those copies of God's word together, you know what you get? The New Testament in itself is 99.3% accurate to the original, even though we don't have Mark's original letter anymore. That's the copy of the word of God that exists today. The Bible is the most trusted document of all of antiquity. Do you know there is more accuracy in the Bible than there is Homer's The Story of the Iliad? Or Alexander the Great. Mr. West, have you ever heard the story that Alexander the Great crossed over a mountain range on a specific animal? What was it? What mountain range was it? What animal was it? He was an elephant, and he crossed over the Alps. Somebody said it. Alexander the Great supposedly crossed the Alps on elephants. Right? Has anybody ever heard that? Anybody ever question that? There is more evidence that Jesus of Nazareth rose from the grave than Alexander the Great crossed a mountain on an elephant. Historically speaking, there is more evidence that Jesus is the Savior of the world than Alexander the Great crossed on a mountain range. And yet every college history class will teach you that Alexander the Great crossed a mountain range on an elephant and deny the validity of the New Testament. What you have to realize when you leave this room today and you walk out there into the world outside of these four walls, they are going to do everything they can to undermine your trust in the word of God. Why? Because the word of God is the one thing that points out their sin, and nobody likes that. It's uncomfortable. I understand that. I'm not super excited when the word of God points out things that are wrong in my life. But the word of God is the word of God. Why do I as a mere man assume the right to question it? The doctrine of the heresy proves to me that it is the validity of authoritative word of God. I'm working on, and I got a little sidetracked with VBS in my tooth and everything. I'm working on a class that we can have on a sunny night where I can try to teach you how the Bible is handed down over time. That's called transmission. How the Bible is translated. That's called translation. I'm working on getting all of that together for you. Just trust me when I tell you that even though the doctrine of an heresy does not apply to the Bibles that are in your hands today, the Bibles that are in your hands are 99.3% accurate. And the few things that are discrepancies, they're numbers. They're not words. Numbers, when they're transposed, you have no way to know it's not a number. Like my example, from versus form. That's just a simple letter transmission. But if I were to translate the numbers 1, 2, 3 into the numbers 1, 3, 2, you'd have to still know that 1, 3, 2 was wrong. Whereas when I read a sentence, Mr. Mark can clearly tell me I traveled from somewhere to somewhere. I traveled form somewhere to somewhere. You read it and you automatically know it's wrong. Bill's an idiot and he's dyslexic. Numerical transposition is harder to decipher and fix it. That does not mean the Word of God contradicts itself. It just means we're talking about a document. I mean, if you think about how old the original writings of Moses are. And those of you who are interested, I bought a new poster that's sitting there in the fellowship hall that shows you the timeline of all the people who lived in the Bible and what was going on in Egypt and China and America and South America and how long ago everybody lived. It's super cool. It's in the fellowship hall for anybody that wants to take a look at it. The Bible is always going to be true because it is the only book written by the only being that will always exist. I hope my simple example here with the little pieces of paper shows you that there's no way the Bible is a random work of man. Absolutely not. So what's your only choice that's left? The Bible is what it says it is. It's the Word of God. And it's the Word of God in such a way that when I do not, and I'll admit, Mr. Pete, there are things that I study that I don't understand. Is it the Word of God that's wrong? Or it's just the fact that my understanding is not enough. How can I as a finite created creature ever expect to fully grasp everything about God? How arrogant am I? When I come across something in Scripture that I struggle with, I admit that it's a struggle and I admit that I still have to learn. And that's okay. I don't want you to sit here this morning and leave and think that I just have to blindly trust the Bible and I'll never be able to gain understanding. No, you absolutely can gain understanding. Ask me. I'll recommend a bunch of really great books that are awesome to read. But you don't get the right to question the Word of God just because you don't like what it says. That's the challenge. That's what we have to live with. If we are going to be the people who call ourselves Christians, we have got to draw this line in the sand and not come up with, I was talking to Michelle this morning, not come up with allegorical explanations to explain away challenging parts of the Bible. No. It's the Word of God. I love how people want to use science to disprove the Word of God. The scientific method in and of itself is based on human observation. It's a flawed concept. What I observe, I can know. The Word of God is based on the person who made it all, a non-flawed concept. What he says, I believe even when it doesn't make sense to me. Because if it had to make sense to me, then I would be God. And clearly, this is not. So the Bible will always be true. Mr. Zach, take me out. Number five. The Bible is the focus of the church. This is where I want to end it this morning. This comes from 1 Timothy 4, verses 11 through 13 in the New Living Translation. 1 Timothy 4, 11 through 13 in the New Living Translation. This is the Apostle Paul writing to his protege, Timothy, as Timothy is traveling around doing ministry because Paul is in jail. Teach these things and insist that everyone learn them. Don't let anyone think less of you because you are young. Be an example to all believers in what you say and in the way you live and in your love, your faith, and your purity. I love that verse. That's a classic youth ministry verse. Don't let anybody look down on you because of your age. But be an example to all believers. But then he says this, until I get there, focus on reading the Scriptures to the church, encouraging the believers and teaching them. Again, Paul is sitting in a Roman prison cell when he writes this. He is incapable of being where Timothy is. So the next best thing is to pen a letter and then send it to Timothy in order to give him encouragement and instruction. And of course he wrote too. We have 1 Timothy. We also have 2 Timothy. Paul is not able to be there. So in his stead, he says, listen, until I get there, focus on reading the Scriptures to the church, encouraging the believers, and teaching them. I know so many people who go, I love Jesus, but I can worship Jesus at home. I don't need to go to church. And I look at them and I say, you are absolutely right. You can worship Jesus at home. But you know what you can't do? You can't learn the Bible by yourself at home. The Bible is designed to be studied in community. And that doesn't mean just listening to what I have to say. That means coming to Bible study and learning it for yourself. That means getting involved in a small group, coming to Sunday school. You cannot be a healthy Christian if you are not actively involved in a church. It's just the truth of the way it is. You cannot be a healthy plant if you are not plugged into dirt. Nobody has a problem with that statement. You cannot be a healthy Christian if you are not a. plugged into God's Word and b. connected to His church. Because God's Word being taught and communicated in His church is the whole purpose of why we're here. What's the point? The point of why we're here is to be able to share God's Word and learn it together. Then you take that knowledge home. And in your one-on-one time and your intimate time of reading God's Word, you spend time with Him and you are then duly sharpened, a. by learning at church and b. by spending time with Him. Until I get there, focus on reading the Scriptures to the church, encouraging them and teaching them. Now when you understand that Paul was training Timothy for ministry, Paul was training him to take his place as someone who could plant churches, then that means, Mr. Pete, that last sentence is the purpose of what we should still be doing today. Read the Scriptures, encourage believers and teach them. Which is in essence what I've been trying to do for the last 20 minutes. Reading Scripture, encouraging you and teaching you. What I can't do is make it matter to you. That's what I can't do. That's what's in your hand. So I've got a couple questions I want to ask. Mr. Zach, will you just take me to my title graphic? I have a couple tough questions I want to ask. And hopefully these don't hurt too bad, but if they do, good. A couple tough questions. When we talk about a habit, right? Habit is something you don't have to remind yourself to do. No one raise your hand, but again, elbowing your neighbor is totally fine. Tough question. How many times not in church, how many times not in church, have you read the Bible in the last two weeks? How many times not in church have you opened the Bible to read it in the last two weeks? How many times not in church have you opened the Bible to study it in the past two weeks? And you can come on Wednesdays and we can show you reading the Bible and studying the Bible are very different things. Studying the Bible means you have a pen and you have a paper and you're taking notes. How many times outside of church have you studied the Bible in the past month? How often do you think about the Bible during an average day? How often is the Bible on your mind? There are the words of Scripture directing your life. How often are the words of Scripture on your mind on an average day? How often do you consult the Bible to make a decision for yourself or for your family? Before making a decision, do you go, no, I really need to think about what does the Word of God say and how is that going to impact the way I make my choice? And finally, and here's the hard one, when the Bible disagrees with our culture, who do you question first? When the Bible, the Word of God, disagrees with American culture, which one do you default to questioning first? Do you give into those ideas? Well, we can't really trust the Bible. It's a 2,000-year-old game of telephone. I could blow that one out of the water in a minute. Or do you say, you know what, culture comes and goes. The Word of God stands forever. What I want to ask you this morning is if your spiritual health were measured by your habit of spending time in the Bible, would you say you're healthy? Would you say you're mildly sick? Would you say it's time for me to go to the hospital? Or would you just straight up say, clear? I need you to have a habit. I want you to have a habit of spending time in God's Word. And that means spending time that you don't have to remind yourself of.