So we're in Galatians chapter 6, and I think what's so important to understand as we go into this passage, and we talked about it last week, who wrote the book of Galatians? Anybody remember? The Apostle Paul. And he wrote it not to a single individual, like his letter to Timothy or Titus or Philemon, but the letter to the Galatians, you can notice that S at the end, it is a pluralized letter. The letter at Galatians was written to all of the Christians who live in the area of Galatia. It was a large area and included many towns, many villages. This is a corporate letter. And why that is important is because as we study it today, we have to recognize that, Kyle, it is a corporate letter to us as well. That it's teaching what the Apostle Paul was teaching the first century church is directly corporately applicable to us as a church. We are just an extension of the first century church. So what I want to do is I want to go back through this passage and sort of break it down and make a few points for you this morning. So here's the first thing. Truth and justice are insured by God's character. Truth and justice are insured by God's character. He says, do not be deceived. God cannot be mocked. A man sows what he reaps. Now we know that God as the infinite and infallible and sovereign God, He cannot lie. It is not within His character. It is not within His nature to break His own word. However, it is also God's character is our measurement of godliness, our measurement of justice. Those who hold a Christian worldview, we hold that God is fully just, He's fully loving, He's fully merciful. And that is our foundation for the way we treat others because of the way the Lord has treated us with mercy. God's character is fully just, meaning He cannot be unjust at the same time. He cannot be unjust because He is fully just. Don't be deceived. God cannot be mocked. A man reaps what he sows. Now it seems like that second statement doesn't really go with the first, but I promise it does. Zach, have you ever planted a garden? Were you successful? Semi. Semi, okay. I will willingly admit that we have the black thumb of gardening death at my house. My wife and I could not keep a cactus alive in our first year of marriage. Okay, great. Then I'm amongst companies Zachary couldn't keep a cactus alive either. I know several of you are very horticulturally enabled. Some of you are very good at gardening. I would love for you to come over my house and show me how to do that because, Ms. Carrie, I'm just not. Like I'm willing to admit to you that is not something I do well. So if you have something at your house, some plant that you need killed, all you have to do is ask me to come take care of it. And in short order, it will dry up and be done. But I know enough about gardening, Mr. Pete, I know enough about farming that when you plant corn seeds, you don't reap tomatoes. There has never been a farmer in the history of the world who planted his seed and then went, well hey Ethel, what do you think we're gonna get this year? What do you think's gonna grow in that back 40? And his wife's gonna look at him and go, well I don't know, what did you plant? No one in the history of farming has ever planted one kind of seed and expected to get something else. And yet, we often do that in our spiritual lives, don't we? We will often plant one type of seed but tell ourselves it's something else and then be disappointed when you actually don't grow tomatoes instead of corn. So the point that God is making here is whatever it is that you plant, that's what you're gonna get. Now let's go forward, because here's where we're going next. You get what you grow, now and later. You get what you grow now and later, Galatians 6, 8. Whoever sows to please the flesh from the flesh will reap destruction. Whoever sows to please the spirit from the spirit will reap eternal life. Remember the context. We talked about it two weeks ago. You can look in your Bibles. If you go back to Galatians 5 and look at what Paul said before what we're reading today. He was already in a context of godly living. The end of Galatians 5 is where we find the famous passage, the fruit of the spirit. Right before the fruit of the spirit is what? The fruit of the flesh. And it talks about this fruit bears this and this fruit bears this. Then here in 6, he brings that up again. God cannot be mocked. You're gonna get what you sow. Whoever sows to please the flesh from the flesh will reap destruction. Now, Mr. John, there's a common misconception about sows to meet the flesh that I want to address. Many people have the idea that as long as I'm not doing something inherently evil that I must be sowing to the spirit. I'm not doing something super evil. You know, I'm much better than we were talking about on Wednesday. Has anybody ever made a group of sinners and included themselves? No. We always go, I'm much better than those people. Those people and ussins. Those ussins are the good folk. But that is an incorrect reading of this passage. What it really means is if you are not actively sowing to the spirit, everything else by default is the flesh. There is no Switzerland when it comes to godliness. There is no middle ground that, oh, you know what? I know this really isn't directly sowing into my spiritual life, but since it's not an adverse sin, it must benefit my spiritual life. Again, it's like planting corn expecting to grow tomatoes. If you are not actively sowing into your spiritual life, you will not reap a spiritual harvest. Now that does not mean that everything sown into the flesh is inherently evil either. For instance, if you have a job, you work diligently at your job, you work with excellence, with godly character, and you receive a raise at work. Was that sowing into your spiritual life? No, not really. It was using spiritual principles in your earthly life. And you benefited from it. That doesn't mean that, I'm not trying to call your entire life lived outside of church evil and inherently sinful. No, I'm not. There are things in our life that are not evil that don't benefit us spiritually. That doesn't make them spiritual things. It just means if Mr. Pete goes to work and he uses a godly work ethic, he may receive reward at work. But Mr. Pete, would you ever expect that that work reward would continue into your eternal life? No, you got the fruit of it. That doesn't mean it's evil. This is what I'm trying to say. There may be no Switzerland when it comes to what is spiritual and what is not. But that doesn't mean just because it's not spiritual means it's inherently evil. There are things you can sow in your life that are evil. Trust me, I'm sure we all can make a list. There are things you can sow in your life that are not evil, but it doesn't make them spiritual. Working and being diligent at work, I believe, would be an excellent example of godly character in the workplace. You may end up being able to do lifestyle evangelism in the workplace. But that in the workplace garden is not going to grow your spiritual life over here. In order to grow, look at His next sentence. Now, what is the ultimate product of sowing into the flesh? It's going to go away when this world goes away. You don't get to take it with you, did you? Whoever sows to please the Spirit from the Spirit will reap eternal life. So it's really a simple question. Of the time that you have in your life, how much are you sowing into your spiritual life to grow? And how much are you just growing your own way? Of the money that you have in your life, how much are you sowing in your spiritual life to grow? And how much are you just spending? That doesn't mean everything you spent your money on is evil. But you can't plant corn when you expect to grow tomatoes. Let's go forward again. Keep the long term in mind. Look at what He says in verse 9. Let us not become weary in doing good. I love this verse. This is one of my favorite passages. Why? Let us not become weary in doing good. Let's just stop with the first half of that, right before the karma. Mr. Zach, what does that tell me? Tells me, number one, doing good is not always going to be easy. Doing what is godly will not always come easily. Doing what is right, measured against God's standard of justice, God's standard of righteousness, God's standard of holiness, may not always be the easy route. That does not mean I am not to do it. Nowhere in, anywhere in the Bible is there the sentence that says godliness is easiest. I'm sorry. If anybody has sold you the idea that chasing after godliness is the easier of the choices, they lied. It is not. That does not mean, Mr. Zach, we're not to do it. In fact, look at the way Paul addresses it. Do not become weary in doing good. That word weary really has a connotation of tired from carrying a heavy load, tired from just an over-exertion of energy. Why? Because Miss Carrie living a godly life will be difficult. It will be challenging. But he encourages us, don't grow weary in doing it. Why? For at the proper time, we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. Here's the next thing I want to try to unpack about this law of sowing and reaping. There's a lot of people that have gone a lot of different ways with it. I like to keep my understandings very simple. Again, I'm a horrible gardener, but I do understand this. Miss Sharon, there's a season when you plant stuff. There's a season when you harvest stuff. And they're more than one day apart. I know that much. I may not be a super successful farmer, but I know that. There's a time that you're supposed to plant stuff. There's a time that you're supposed to harvest that stuff. And there's more than a day in between. Who's in charge of the crops while they're in the ground? God. There's a God gap between sowing and reaping that man is not in control of. And this is where I'll try to point out the falsehood of the prosperity gospel that if you sow money into the church that God is honor bound to give you money back. It's just not the case. We sow, and then there's a God gap. There's a waiting period where God is at work in what we sowed before we actually see the plant come out of the ground. And even then, just because the plant is broken on the ground doesn't mean the fruit's ready for harvest. Doesn't mean the actual crop is ready. There's all of this God working in the middle of the day I planted the seed, and the day that I finally got to harvest the corn or the tomatoes or pick the apples or what have you be. There's a God gap here, and that's what the proper time is all about. I'm not in charge of the proper time for my own life. My heavenly father is. Now, here's an easy question. If you don't plant, will you reap? No. So Andrew, I have a part in the process. I have a part to play in this process. It is my job to plant in faith, but it's also my job to wait and understand that there's gonna be a season here where God is at work, maybe behind the scenes, maybe I don't always get to see it. And you know, Miss Kayla, one of the things that's hardest for me, God doesn't send me FedEx letters from heaven and let me know what he's gonna do in my life next week. Does anybody get those? Because I would very much like to join your mailing list. I don't, Mr. Charles, he just has never done that. I have never once received a letter in the mail from the Lord telling me what he's gonna do in my life next week. But does that mean I don't believe he's not at work? No. There's a God gap. There are times where I'm to sow. There are times where the Lord allows me to reap. And you know what? There's an awful lot of time that it feels like I'm just waiting. But at the proper time, we will reap a harvest, and then there's the big if, circle, underline, long press and highlight, if we do not give up. We are honor bound in our faith. Don't give up. You know what that also tells me? That if we don't give up, Mr. Pete, the whole being weary and doing good might get to the point that I consider it. Being good might get to the point that I consider giving up. That I consider, whatever God's growing in my life, it's just not worth waiting anymore. I'll just take care of it myself. And I've seen people fail at that. I've seen ministers fail at that. Let me just fix it. I can handle it. Let me just, instead of just waiting. It's not, when we are waiting, it doesn't mean God is not working. It means he's working in us. Sometimes he's working on us in that proper waiting time. Take me forward again. We should look for opportunities, especially within our church family. This one doesn't always play well, so take a look. Galatians 6, 10. Therefore, therefore what? Therefore, as you're waiting, therefore, as you're not growing weary, therefore, as you're doing good, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all people. All people. Especially those who belong in the family of believers. We should be looking for opportunities to be doing good. And we should start with the people in our church family. Now I know that sounds anti-ethical, right? I know that sounds anti. No, the church should always be looking outside its doors. Notice he did say all people. Just because we start by looking for priority in our church does not mean we are absolved of the responsibility to do good to our community. But there's a clear principle that Paul's trying to show here. What good does it do if we take care of the elderly and the single moms who are outside of our church, but the elderly and the single moms who are inside our church get ignored? What does that do for our witness? No, if you're gonna do something like that, Pete, start with inside your church and then reach out and keep reaching. That all people doesn't go away, but clearly Paul has placed a priority that we should be looking after the needs of the people in our church family. Now remember the context. This is the first century. We are not the globally recognized religion that we are today. Christianity began and we were a very suspect offshoot of first century Judaism. In the first century they thought we were cannibals because we take the body and blood of Jesus. They thought we were incestuous because we call everybody brother and sister. So we were the first century incestuous cannibalism religion. That does not go well on a bumper sticker. I'll just tell you that right now. How did our faith grow in the first century? It grew A, by the power of the Holy Spirit, exemplified through his people, exemplified in the church, exemplified in a church that was willing to take care of its own. We can go to Acts chapter six, the installation of the first deacons. They had a need. There were widows that were being missed in the daily distribution of food. That tells me two things. Number one, they had a daily distribution of food. And number two, they had a mechanism to fix a problem in that distribution when it happened. So they had good leadership and they had good ministry going on by Acts chapter six. And that was all due to the power of the Spirit working through the people in his church. I know it seems selfish for me as a pastor to stand here in a sanctuary and tell everyone that you should make your church family a priority. But Mr. Don, that's what Paul said. It's not what Bill says. It's what the Word of God says. We should look to do good for all people, but we should first start by looking to see who's in our church. Now, I could not in good conscience do a message on growing in godliness and not give you my favorite verse on godliness. Take a look at this. 1 Timothy chapter four, verse seven. Have nothing to do with godless myths and old wives' tales. Rather, train yourself to be godly. This is, I would say perhaps, Bill, perhaps this is the most influential verse of all of the Bible when it comes to my personal perspective of my personal spiritual life. I spent a lot of time studying the Bible to prepare to deliver it to you. But Ms. Lisa, that's not the only thing I should be getting out of the Bible. I should also be studying for myself. This verse right here, probably the most foundational to my perspective of discipleship, to my expectations of myself. Take a look at what it says. This is Paul. Now, who wrote 1 Timothy? The apostle Paul. But now, who did he write this to? Timothy. This is a single letter written to a young man who's his protege. He's raising him up in the ministry. Timothy's sent out to plant churches. Timothy is sent out to raise up disciples, raise up deacons. And he's talking about growing in godliness. Have nothing to do with godless myths and old wives' tales. Now, you really have to remember our first century context. Sharon, in the first century, there's a lot of gods. The Romans had their pantheon. The Greeks had their pantheon. The Egyptians had their pantheon. The Canaanites had their pantheon. The Jews were the only people around worshiping only one god. And then all of a sudden, out of the Jewish religion, comes this offshoot of people worshiping this guy, Christos, and they claim that he's been risen from the dead. When Jesus and his sovereignty showed up on the scene, we were just one of a plethora of gods and religions out there. This is why this idea of don't be distracted by godless myths and old wives' tales is so important. Because nowadays, it feels weird or different or off for us to see people worshiping other gods other than probably the big ones. You know, the big gods on the scene all have their own major holidays during the year. Yahweh is still worshiped by the Jewish people. Allah is worshiped by the Muslims. Jesus is worshiped by the Christians. But there's not a whole lot of other holidays for the other, the Wiccan gods and the pantheistic gods and the Eastern mysticism gods. They're just not as high on the god roster anymore. Well, we started low on the god roster in the first century. And there was a lot of unhealthy, heretical, influential teaching coming from all these other religions. And Paul made it very clear to Timothy in his ministry training, have nothing to do with godless myths and old wives' tales, rather, and those last, what is that, five words right there, train yourself to be godly. That verb, to train, is the same verb that is used to describe athletes preparing for the Caribbean and Olympic Games. To train. Later, Paul does talk about, only one runner runs the race. So train to win. That's that same verb there. Prepare yourself as if you are an athlete preparing to compete at the height of your sport. Now, Miss Janie, I will admit, I've really never been quite an athlete. Okay. I was never really good at football or soccer. But I played competitive chess. I did. In middle school and high school, I played competitive chess. And we would go and travel to other schools. And yeah, it's okay. Everybody can have a laugh. Like, I went on a date with my wife, and we saw a movie that had a chess team in it. She absolutely laughed and called them all dorks. And then remembered that I was on the chess team. And it was a wonderful first date moment, reminder of that when you see her at the end of church. But I remember in chess team practice, our teacher would give us a difficult problem to solve. You don't have all the pieces you need. That you're set up on the board lesser than your opponent. And he would do that to teach us certain strategies of how to play the game in such a way to turn a weakness into a strength. It was training for competition. I wish I could give you a more manly example than chess, but Mr. Don is just who I am. So, we would train every Tuesday and Thursday afternoon at these different problems that our teacher would give us. And they would all have an inherent problem to solve. We'd either have to overcome being outgunned, we'd have to overcome bad board positioning, whatever it may be, we had to train, we had to practice. And then when we didn't get it right, guess what? You go back and do it again. You go back and do it again. And some of those lessons that I learned in eighth grade playing chess are still some of the most formative lessons when I play with my family members and friends now. Things I've never forgotten because I trained for it. That is what this verb means. But we need to train ourselves to be godly. What does that mean? How do you train yourself to be godly? Well, first, you have to read the Word of God. Absolutely. The Word of God is the only tool to create godliness. The Word of God and the Spirit of God. There is no 12-step man-written program that ends up at godliness. It starts with God's Word, God's character, and God's Spirit. But it also starts with a correct mentality that says, I'm not good enough yet, but I can get better. You must first accept the reality that who you are today is not the maximum level of godliness that you could have in your life. Miss Carrie, if you have X number of years left in your life, you have X number of years to chase after God and learn and become more godly. Those of you who have been down this road a while, you also get the privilege of pouring the things that God has shown you in your wisdom into those of us who are younger. But you've got to have an attitude of training. Why? We're not talking about your salvation being in jeopardy. But salvation is only the beginning of the Christian journey. If we're going to live in eternity, the Lord said, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Our life in eternity will not only be based on our salvation choice, but it will be based on the way we lived our life here. What did we train ourselves for? Sadly, we live in a culture where we're pretty much training ourselves for self-pleasure. We train ourselves to make money to buy the stuff we want to buy. We train ourselves to make sure we have the right Netflix subscription so that you can binge watch all your favorite shows once they come on. We're not training ourselves to be godly. Andrew, if you're going to train yourself to be godly, you have to have a definition of what it means to be godly. You have to see where you are in distance from that definition, and you have to commit yourself to chase after it. Now, I will tell you one thing up front. You'll never get there. You'll never be perfect. I'm sorry. I wish I could stand here and tell you that if you committed your life for three or four years to totally serving God, that you could be a perfect person. You can't be. But you will definitely be a more godly you if you have an intentional plan than if you're just winning it. If you're just doing a pull-up every now and then or doing a push-up every now and then. I did not get the amazing physique that I have today without committing to eating ice cream as often as I can. Okay? I earned it. I worked hard for it. Okay? Not everybody can sit down and eat an entire half a gallon of ice cream and is sitting. Sweetheart, I bet you probably could. Okay? And sadly, if you continue down the route, I continue down, you may end up in the physique that I have also. That's what I don't want to have happen. We've got to train ourselves for godliness. Don't just accept the idea that going to church once a week is enough. It's not. Going to church is how we participate in the body of Christ. It's how we help one another. You know, iron doesn't sharpen iron if iron never gets next to the other iron. You can almost become comfortable in your own dullness unless you spend time rubbing against your brothers, spend time rubbing against your sisters. And you know what happens when iron sharpened against, when iron rubs against iron? You know what happens? Friction. Heat. Sparks. And betterment. We are better. Refining. My mentor, Pastor Rick, who hopefully you will get to meet this year, he talks about the crucible of God. And what he means is, there are times in our lives where the Lord will put us in a situation that brings us to the melting point. Not the breaking point, the melting point. And why does the Lord allow us to be tested at such a level? Does anybody know what happens when you melt metal? When you melt metal, the impurities float to the top. And then you can pull them off, and I believe it's called the dross. Right? Dross. And then when that metal that has now been melted and cleaned hardens, it is more pure than when it started. But there's no way to get the impurities out unless the metal can first be melted down and be pliable. This is a lesson Pastor Rick taught me back when I was 20, what? 21? When I took my first youth pastor position? Pastor Rick taught me about the crucible. He said, Bill, get used to the idea that you're going to be melted down over and over throughout your life. He says, because if you learn to love it, the product that what God can do in your life will be great. But if you run from the fire every time you feel it, you will never be better. That is why that man is the guy I want to be when I grow up. That crucible moment, we all experience in different ways, yes. Zachary, you're going to experience a different crucible than Mr. Pete. You're at two different stages of life. You live in two different generations. Our culture is different. That's fine. But when you feel that crucible, you have to have the wisdom and the Spirit of God in you that says, Lord, I submit to this heat because I know you're only doing it for my betterment, for my sharpening, for my perfecting, for my purity before you. You're not out to just hurt me. God's not out to just burn you. He's out to perfect you. But the only way you get to that perfected moment is if you give in to the crucible. So here's what I want you to do. I'm not going to forcibly make everybody retake the test. Those of you who took it, keep it. But I want to use this test as a guide marker for something. So if you are not here on the 31st and you have not taken this, please do me a favor, take it home and take it. But what I want to talk about are right down here underneath the big bold lines, you see these five categories, prayer, Bible intake, character, serving, and stewardship. These are just five of the growth categories that are often talked about when we talk about spiritual disciplines, the discipline of prayer, the discipline of Bible intake, the discipline of stewardship, the discipline of serving. There are plenty of great books out there on growing and godliness. I have several in my library if you're interested. But here's what I want you to do. I just want you to look at those five words and ask yourself in the last week, what have I done to grow in any one of them? Intentional. Intentional growth. Not accidental growth. Not oops, I stumbled over a fully grown tomato plant. I mean intentional growth. What are you doing in your life, investing in your spiritual health in the area of prayer? Come back next Sunday, we're starting an entire series on prayer. Because I believe there's nothing more life-changing than the Word of God and the power of prayer. That is the one two punch the church has always had to change the face of the world. Number two, what have you done in the last week to invest in yourself in Bible intake? You're having a quiet time with the Lord. Great, what are you learning? Are you coming out to Bible study on Wednesdays, learning how to open up the Scriptures? Are you maybe getting an audio book or a commentary, learning how to dig deeper? Your character. When was the last time you actually looked at your character in the mirror and measured it against the character of Christ? Or ask yourself in a difficult situation, Lord how can I best respond to reflect you and not me? That one's hard. I will willingly admit to you, that one's hard. But that's what it takes to have the character that reflects Jesus. Serving. What did you do in the past week to serve someone else? Not just to wait tables, but to improve their godliness. To evangelize, to disciple, and then finally stewardship. You're not the owner. And I'm not just talking about money. Stewardship applies to the whole of your life. Your time, your skills. What are you doing with what God has given you? If you're only spending it on yourself, then we can go back to Wednesday. You're no better than the prodigal son. Took what his father had given him and spent it on himself. So if you haven't taken the test, I want you to take it today. If you have already taken the test, then here's my question. How are we going to get you to when we get to the end of this year, and I hand that test out again, that you have a better score? Because I tell you this, it ain't going to happen by accident. It's not going to happen accidentally. We're at the beginning of the year. Now is a great time to say, you know what? I'm going to read three Christian books this year. Or whatever your number is. If you're Andrea, you could read three Christian books in three days. Just trolling through books makes me feel like a loser. But I don't read well. Now audio books, I can handle an audio book. I can listen while I'm washing the dishes. I can listen while I'm driving my car. If you call out to me in Walmart and I don't hear you, it's because I got my audio book in if I'm shopping by myself. What are you going to do this year? Here's what I want you to do. Number one, I want you to make a clear plan. I want you to write it down. And then I want you to share it with somebody and ask them to hold you accountable. It does no good for me to write my own plan and stick it in my own sock drawer and never look at it. That's still not enough. You have to have somebody that's going to check in with you. Hey, Pete, how's that thing we talked about? How you doing? Let's get some coffee. Let's talk about that. Hey, you know what? I've been wanting to read that book. Why don't we read it together? We can hold each other accountable. If you do not have somebody holding you to your plan, you're not training. You're just hoping. You're just hoping if I write it down, I'll get better. You won't. It's like going to the doctor, getting your prescription, and then putting it on the kitchen counter, believing the prescription will make you better. You only get better when you actually do it, when you actually take the medicine. So here's your medicine. Write a personal growth plan for this year. If you would like help with that, it would be my privilege to help you. It would be my privilege to talk with you, show you some of the books in my library. I have a book in my library that I read almost every year because it's so good. And the Spirit just speaks to me every time going, hey, you suck at that. Fix it. Great. Thank you, Jesus. If you need help writing a growth plan, I would love to do that. But here's the thing. I can't force you into that. I have to ask you, are you ready to train for God's witness? Because it will not happen in your life by accident.