I'm going to be getting a brand new teaching series this morning entitled When You Pray. When you pray. Not if you pray. Miss Lisa, I'm going to go ahead and agree with the Savior. I assume that if we are Christians that we pray. Is that a fair assumption? Can we start with that as an idea? I assume if we are Christians we pray. But then beyond that, what happens when you pray? What I want to do is examine several aspects of prayer. And really this time we will be focusing on not necessarily the mechanics of prayer, but Mr. Pete, the authority and the miraculous power that we get in prayer. So it's not really a spiritual discipline series from a sense of mechanics. We're not going to talk about how to properly formulate a prayer or what are the appropriate names for God or what those things mean. We're going to really focus more on the power of prayer. Now this morning's message is entitled Accessing the Unseen. So this first message is entitled Accessing the Unseen. Now there's a key theme that's going to run us through this whole series. And that is prayer is more than a divine wish list. It is one-on-one access to the God of all creation. Prayer is more than a divine wish list. It is one-on-one access to the God of all creation. Now if you'd like to follow in your Bibles with me this morning, we are going to be in the Old Testament book of Jeremiah. No, not the bullfrog, the prophet. Jeremiah chapter 33, and we're going to read verses 1 through 9. So Jeremiah chapter 33, verses 1 through 9. And I have it for you here on the screen in the New International Version. So this is Jeremiah 33, verses 1 through 9. Here's how it reads. While Jeremiah was still confined in the courtyard of the guard, we'll talk about that in a minute, the word of the Lord came to him a second time. This is what the Lord says, He who made the earth and who formed it and who established it, the Lord is His name. Call to me and I will answer you. And I will tell you great and unsearchable things that you do not know. For this is what the Lord, the God of Israel says about the houses in this city and the royal places of Judah that have been torn down to be used against the siege ramps and the swords in the fight with the Babylonians. We'll talk about that. They will be filled with dead bodies of the people. I will slay in my anger and wrath. I will hide my face from this city because of all its wickedness. Nevertheless, I will bring health and healing to it. I will heal my people and let them enjoy abundant peace and security. I will bring Judah and Israel back from captivity and will rebuild them as they were before. I will cleanse them from all sin they have committed against me and will forgive all their sins of rebellion against me. Then this city will bring me renown, joy, praise, and honor before all nations on earth that hear of all the good things I do for it. They will be in awe and will tremble at the abundant prosperity and peace I provide for it. Now, jumping into the Old Testament can sometimes be a little tricky because we've got to talk about, Joe, we've got to talk about when. The Bible is a historical book. It happened through the annals of history. So before we unpack this passage, let me establish the setting in which our passage takes place. We are approximately 585 BC. Maybe you've heard the name Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar is the king or the lord or the leader of the nation of Babylon, or where we call the Babylonians are from. Nebuchadnezzar is the king of Babylon. Prior to 585 BC, Babylon sacks Egypt, which up to that point had been a massive world power. Babylon defeats and decimates all of Egypt. Well, Egypt was Israel and Judah's largest military ally. So with Egypt out of the way, there's nothing to stop Babylon from coming to the promised land and enslaving the Jewish people, which is exactly what happens. Egypt falls to Babylon's military power, and then they just march right on in into Judah. And soon they're here at the gates to conquer Jerusalem. Now, let's go ahead and take a look at our first point so that I can finish the rest of the history. First point in this morning's message is this. Prayer can access the unseen. And I need you to remember the historical context. Miss Jean, this is 585 BC. This is 580 years before the angels showed up to start the New Testament. Remember at Christmas time, we talked about who was the first message to? Anybody remember? First angelic message in the New Testament? Nope. Zechariah. First angel showed up to Zechariah while he was serving in the temple. Your son will be the forerunner to the Messiah. That's where the New Testament kicks off. This is 580 years, almost six full centuries before the angelic message to Zechariah is the story that takes place here. Prayer can access the unseen. Let's look at the first three verses. While Jeremiah was still confined in the courtyard of the guard, stop. Jeremiah, at this moment in biblical history, is the Lord's prophet. Now we have to remember, Tiff, we're in the Old Testament, which means they don't have equal access to the Holy Spirit like we do today. In the New Testament church, the Lord came, He died, He rose again, and now we each individually have access to the Holy Spirit. They didn't have that in the Old Testament. The Lord specifically chose Jeremiah and gifted him to do a work for him. Jeremiah has the Holy Spirit. Through the Holy Spirit, he is declaring to Judah that Babylon is coming. Babylon is going to judge the nation of God for their sinfulness. What does the king do? He does not say, oh, we should repent in sackcloth and ashes, like the Ninevites did at the word of Jonah. No, he puts him in jail. The king takes the prophet of God and says, Mr. Charles, I don't like what you are saying. I am going to put you in jail until you prophesy something that is good for me. And this is where our story opens. Babylon has defeated Egypt. They are at the gates, sacking Jerusalem. The prophet of God is saying, Mr. Pete, this is from the Lord. This is His judgment on our people for sin. And the king says, no, no, no, no. God always wants what is good for us, so that can't be the word of the Lord. So you are in jail until you prophesy something that is good for me. And enter Jeremiah 33 verse 1. While Jeremiah was still confined in the courtyard of the guard, and if you are looking for the back story here, go back to chapter 32. If you read chapter 32, you will see that he got in prison. You will see the first vision that Jeremiah had. That is why it says the word of the Lord came to him a second time. 32 and 33 are really interrelated as one solid story. This is what the Lord says. He who made it, the earth, the Lord who formed it and established it, the Lord is His name. You also have to think about, we are in the Old Testament, who is the Lord in relationship to the nation of Israel and the nation of Judah. I am meant to print it out and hand it out today, so I apologize. Sharon, I just straight forgot. Plus your bulletin was already full of stuff. I don't know that Kim really needed one more thing to print and fold. But in case you are unfamiliar with the majority of Old Testament history, God in Genesis, He talked to a guy named Abraham. He made a nation. He gave Abraham the first man to be called a Hebrew. They go into Egypt. They multiply under Joseph, eventually slavery. Q, Moses, burning bush, right? Partying the Red Sea. Somebody nod, they are still following me. Red Sea, Egypt, the nation of Israel comes out of Egypt, Mount Sinai. They get the Ten Commandments. They become a nation. Then they say, I want a king. Now we are into Samuel and kings. They get a king. Then about halfway through, after the death of David, the kingdom fractures into what we call the Northern Kingdom and the Southern Kingdom. The Northern Kingdom is named Israel. The Southern Kingdom is named Judah. Israel went off down a massively sinful road. And so the Northern Kingdom of Israel, they get a spanking from God. And they get sent by Assyrian captivity. The Southern Kingdom of Judah, they threw King Josiah. They had this massive spiritual reform. They stayed true to God longer. But eventually they also fell into sin. So Sarah, God uses the Babylonians to discipline the kingdom of Judah. That's where we are in Old Testament history. Is the kingdom has fractured, Northern and Southern. Northern has gone into Assyrian captivity. This is the moment when Judah, the Southern Kingdom of Israel, is being taken into Babylonian captivity because of sinfulness and judgment. And what I want you to see here is, look how the Lord establishes his authority over his people. This is what the Lord says, He who made the earth, the Lord who formed it and established it. Y'all live in my backyard, so I have authority over what is done. And think about what did the Lord give. The Lord gave the land to Abraham. He said it all the way back in chapter 12, 13, and 14 of Genesis. Look to the north, south, east, and west. Your people will have all this land. And then of course he went on to tell them they first would have to go into Egyptian captivity to get it. But that they would eventually be returned to the land. So the Lord establishes his authority right there in the middle, a couple of lines. And now I want you to see the last line. What does he say? Call to me and I will answer you and tell you great and unsearchable things you do not know. Let me ask you a really simple question. Mr. Pete, is the Lord omniscient? Does he know everything? He absolutely knows everything. Does the Lord answer prayer? He absolutely does. If you believe those two statements, and I would argue they are completely biblically accurate, hopefully we do. You believe that the Lord knows everything. And you believe that the Lord knows prayer. Then that means your prayer life is your access to the things you don't know that God knows because he knows all. That's what I meant by the term the unseen. I am a human person. I am fallible. I only live in one moment at one time. I am a very contained individual in comparison to the Almighty Omniscience of God. We have to first and foremost understand that the act of prayer is not just putting a wish list up to the genie in a bottle, Aguilara-sized theology that says we ask God and he gives us. But the reality is prayer is this. Call to me, prayer, I will answer you and tell you unsearchable things you do not know. If you are only in prayer asking God for things, you only have one aspect of prayer. Asking God to understand things is a whole other level of, Lord I see what's going on around me. Think about the story here. Jeremiah tried to tell the nation of Judah, y'all have sinned, y'all done messed up. And God is here to get you on the right path. And it's going to be the Babylonians who did it. And yet they didn't want to hear that. I only want what makes me happy, what only makes me fat, I only want what makes me rich. Not the fact that God might actually use a pagan nation to correct me because I've been living sinfully outside of his will. Alright, enough about that point. Let's go forward a second. The immediate future may not be comfortable. And this is a tough thing about prayer but it is true. The immediate future may not be comfortable. Look at verses 4 and 5. For this is what the Lord the God of Israel says about the houses in this city and the royal places of Judah that have been torn down to be used against the siege ramps and the swords in the fight with the Babylonians. This is why that 585 BC history is so important. I need you to see the fact. In this day and time, cities were built with really big walls around them. And at night all the gates are closed and that keeps the evil people out and the good people in. And all of a sudden here come the Babylonians and they need siege warfare. They need to break into the city. Think all the way to Joshua in the battle of Jericho. What did God do? God broke the walls of Jericho, the very things they trusted in for their safety. Here, God allows the Babylonians to conquer Jerusalem for the purpose of disciplining his people. And look at what he says here. In this city, in the royal place, blah blah blah. What I want you to see is look at what they're doing to defend their city. They're tearing down their own royal places. People are tearing down their homes to build anti-siege protections. And what's going to happen? The fourth from the bottom. They will be filled with the dead bodies of the people I will slay in my anger and wrath. When it is time for God to discipline you, there is none you can do to stop it. God is going. Now the question we have to ask is, why does God allow a foreign pagan military power to conquer his people in such a way? I argue that as we expound more on what Jeremiah says, we're going to see that. But what I want you to see here is, Jeremiah's message is not life coaching. Jeremiah's message is not, trust God and thou shalt be wealthy. Trust God and you will get. But, no, Jeremiah's pretty much saying, y'all we done messed up and now we're going to get to discipline of the Lord. The immediate future for what he has for his people may not be comfortable. Now I do not want you to all walk out of church today and say, Pastor Bill said life's going to suck this year. That's not what I said. All of 2018 is not going to be horrible for all of us. What I want you to see is historically, Jeremiah spent time with the Lord and the Lord revealed to him that the immediate future that is about to occur for the betterment of my people does not include their comfort. It includes improving their character through the Babylonian captivity. And look at what he says, I will hide my face from this city because, highlight, circle, long press, underline, do something. I will hide my face from this city because of all its wickedness. Sin broke relationship with God, incurred judgment, we can go to the New Testament, for the wages of sin is death. Paul is showing what the Lord has already established in the Old Testament. So let's go forward one more. Then God will restore his people with his power. Before we read on, I need you to do something. I need you to think about the fact that just because you know what happens in the Old Testament doesn't mean Jeremiah does. We have the benefit of history, right? We have the benefit of the written word of God to tell us what happened between 585 BC and the coming of Christ, the era of the church in early Acts, all the way till the Reformation and to the church nowadays. Miss Sharon, we know all of that. But you got to be careful when you go back into the Old Testament, Mr. Don, they didn't. Only Jeremiah is hearing from the Lord at this moment. So God will restore his people with his power. This is the shining moment in this entire passage. This is the word that you stand on. This is the word that carries you through those dark and stormy nights. Nevertheless, I will bring health and healing. I will heal my people and I will let them enjoy abundant peace and security while the Babylonians are tearing the walls down, while I'm in prison by my own king from trying to preach the word of the Lord as he's given it to me. I need you to see the irony in Jeremiah telling this to the people in 585 BC. They don't know about Jesus. They don't know about John the Baptist, the message of Zechariah. They don't know anything about what we know. And here's Jeremiah in the midst of a city being ravaged by a foreign military power saying to the people, I will let them enjoy abundant peace and security. I will bring Judah and Israel back from captivity. I will bring them back from captivity and will rebuild them as they were before. That rebuild them as they were before? Palestinian covenant. For those of you who weren't here last October, we talked about the book of Revelation and how God has set forth certain promises for his children. And one of them is the land promise, the land covenant. God said to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, you will inherit this land. This is for my people. He is temporarily taking, and what's interesting is, he doesn't take the land from the people, he takes the people from the land. And then I will restore them. I will bring them back as they were before. What is this whole thing about? Mr. Zach, it's about judgment on sin. And what he, what Jeremiah is basically saying is, okay guys, so we've sinned. I'm the prophet of God here. We've sinned. And we're not going to get to live here for a little while. God is going to rebuke us. God is going to discipline us. But there's a silver lining. God has not rejected his promises. That promise that our people will have this land, we will be brought back. We will be restored. When our time of captivity is over, when our spirits have been broken and humbled before the Lord, God will rebuild. Take me forward again. God will redeem his people from their sin. Jeremiah 33, 8. I will cleanse from all the sin they have committed against me. Remember back, what is the whole point of this? Because of their wickedness? I will cleanse them from all the sin they have committed against me and will forgive all their sins of rebellion against me. Now, Mr. Don, we have the benefit of the New Testament. We know that Jesus came and he did all of this. Jeremiah doesn't. This is a future promise for Jeremiah. This is something that he's telling through the unction of the Holy Spirit to God's people living in a war-torn, sacked Jerusalem. God is judging us right now. But he will, in the future, forgive all of our sins. He will forgive all of our rebellion. Mr. John, he will restore us not only to the land for which he has promised our ancestors, but he will wipe all sin away from God's people. He will forgive all of our rebellion. Again, we get to see that. This is a future promise to Jeremiah. And then give me the last one. God will rejoice in the praise of his people, 33, 9. Then this city will bring me renown. Then what? Then meaning after all the sin has been wiped away, after the rebellion is erased. Then this city will bring me renown, joy, praise, and honor before all nations on the earth that hear of all the good things I do for it. They will be in awe and will tremble at the abundant. And here's these words again. Prosperity and peace. He's preaching this while the barbarians are physically tearing down the gates of the city. And he's promising the people, Ms. Carey, don't forget, God has promised our people peace and prosperity. We may not see it right now. I might be in jail because my king wants to deny the truth of the word of the Lord, and I may be under armed guard for doing the work that God has set me to. And there might be an evil army that will come to me and say, there might be an evil army about to tear down the walls of Jerusalem, and they might take us all away to be in captivity in a pagan nation. Nevertheless, a day will come when our people will be restored to this land. All of our sins will be forgiven. And in that moment, the Lord will be glorified through his people. See, the children of Israel were always supposed to bring glory to God. And when they get off on these me-focused, I call it meology instead of theology. When you're in meology and everything you do is centered on you instead of centered on God, you follow down some very wicked paths. Here we see a fantastic example. Now, go ahead and take me to the title slide. This is why the history here is so important. Because what's the takeaway? What's the takeaway here? I need you to understand that everything you know about sovereignty, about forgiveness, John the Baptist, Jesus, the calling of the twelve, the feeding of the five thousand, Jeremiah has no concept of. The Lord told him about the return to the land. The Lord told him about the full forgiveness of sin. I would argue that that last section, when Jerusalem fully, when do all of the nations bow to Jerusalem? Not until the millennial reign of Christ, which hasn't happened yet. So Jeremiah has revealed the truth of the New Testament, the truth of the return to the land, and the truth of the millennial kingdom, which we haven't even seen yet. And he learned about all of that in 585 BC because he spent time in the Lord in prayer. Imagine what the Lord would want to reveal to us about our circumstances if we would merely be willing to accept the reality that if you go back to, where is the very beginning of it? It's the Lord who, this is what the Lord says, He who made the earth, who formed it, who established it. The Lord is His name. It's God who's fully sovereign. But if we would submit ourselves to the fully sovereign God who knows all, when you pray, you have access to the same unseen, wholly sovereign, majestic, omniscient God that Jeremiah did. What kinds of things might the Lord reveal to us that He's doing? And let me ask you a simple question. Mr. Derrick, I haven't picked on you yet. Do you believe that God is still at work on earth? Of course He is. So then here's the obvious question. Ms. Andre, if we believe God is at work, which one is better? For us to ask God to bless what we're doing, or for us to get on board with what God is already doing? Clearly the latter, right? Clearly, ministry is more productive when you get on board with God, rather than in prayer, try to get God on board with you. Stop thinking in the Christina Aguilera theology that God is a genie in a bottle, I'm going to toss my wish lists up to heaven, and He's going to give me what I want. Instead, we should be in prayer, seeking God, what are you doing, and how can I participate? Because it was only Jeremiah that understood the Babylonian invasion. The king, all the king's guard, they locked him up because of his perspective was based on God, not meology. How many of us in our daily lives think, God, how can I bring you into what I'm doing? Not, Lord, how can I be in what you're doing in my life, in my family, in my work, in my marriage, in my church, in my community, in my country, worldwide. What is God doing worldwide, and how are we as Reedswood participating? All of that is what you have access to when you pray. Jeremiah was told truths that we haven't even seen yet. And because of his perspective, and here's, this is my opinion of the passage, Jeremiah was still taken into captivity. The book of Jeremiah is not over. He was still taken into captivity. But Mr. Don, he went into captivity with a God-focused perspective. He knew God would eventually fulfill his promises, even if he didn't get to see it. Wow. He had faith, he believed, that even if he didn't get to see it, God's Word would ring true. God's Word would be true, and he would eventually fulfill that which he had. And that entire perspective, Ms. Dorothy, came from Jeremiah's time with the Lord. There's no one on earth that can tell you what God is doing in your life, except for God. Except for time in his Word, time communing with his Spirit. As we start this study on prayer, I've got to ask you this simple question. What are you doing when you pray? And I chose this graphic on purpose, because the light switch is in the off position, not the on position. That wasn't an accident, that was intentional. I think all too often, we're praying with the light switch down, me focused. God, be a part of what I'm doing. God, let me have this. God, help me accomplish this. We're not flipping the switch, going, God, what are you doing, and how can I participate? Lord, where are you at work in my life? Give me the perspective to understand, because maybe I'm going through a tough time and I don't understand. Maybe I'm stressed about this, I'm worried about this, I'm kept up at night over these issues, and Lord, I don't understand, where are you in what I am dealing with? That's the Jeremiah perspective. He said, wait, the Lord is speaking. What is the Lord saying? Guys, we're going to have to go into Babylonian captivity. Our sin has to be judged. Now, thankfully, we have the blood of Christ. Your sin can be paid for in an instant because of the Savior on the cross, but not if you keep the light switch down and not up. When you pray, I believe, and I will willingly admit to you, I'm not always good at that. I'm human, Mr. Pete, I apologize, I'm human. That's right. And that's when the Holy Spirit takes over and he says, okay, I've been too much Aguilera and not enough Jeremiah. Can I say it that way? Those of you who don't get that, Christine Aguilera had the Genie in a Bottle song, and I'll find it for you on YouTube. We need a little more theology and a little less theology, a little more Jeremiah and a little less Aguilera in the way we live our faith.