And we are going to continue a series that we started last week entitled, When You Pray. When You Pray. And this series isn't necessarily focusing on the mechanics of prayer, like how to pray or what the right order to pray in, but really the function of prayer in the life of the believer. Last week we looked at prayer of the unseen. When we pray with God, we believe that God is omniscient, He is almighty, and He knows all things. Even when I don't know, He knows. Even when I'm not sure, He knows. So when we speak to God in prayer, we are literally accessing the God who knows everything we don't know. And we looked at Jeremiah and how God promised in his prayers that He would show him the unseen things that he didn't understand. And that was a fantastic story. We'll have that up on reedswood.com if you want to catch up on that message. This morning, however, I want to take you to the key theme for this series. So here's the key theme. Prayer is more than a divine wish list. It is one-on-one access to the God of all creation. Prayer is more than a divine wish list. It's not just telling God what I want or what I need. That's sort of a Ginny in the Bottle, Christina Aguilera theology. That prayer is just asking God for stuff. That's really not all that the Bible shows us that prayer is. Prayer is one-on-one access to the God of all creation. Now, the title of this morning's message is When You Pray, Praying with the Authority. When you pray, praying with authority. If you will turn with me in your Bible's turn or click, you can click to 1 Kings chapter 18. We're going to read verses 16 to 39. Miss Lisa, it's sort of a longer section this morning, but I don't want to miss part of the details in just sort of skipping through the story. So I want to read this entire story to you, and then we will go back through and we will break it down. So this is 1 Kings chapter 18. We're going to begin reading in verse 16. So 1 Kings chapter 18. Begin reading in verse 16, and I have it for you on the screen in the New International Version or the NIV. Here's how it goes. So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him, and Ahab went to meet Elijah. When he saw Elijah, he said to him, Is that you, troubler of Israel? I have not made trouble for Israel, Elijah replied, but you and your father's family have. You have abandoned the Lord's commands and have followed after the Baals. Now, summon the people from all over Israel and meet me on Mount Carmel and bring the 450 prophets of Baal and the 400 prophets of Asherah, who eat at Jezebel's table. So Ahab sent word throughout all Israel and assembled the prophets on Mount Carmel. Elijah went before the people and said, How long will you waver between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow Him. If Baal is God, follow Him. But the people said nothing. Then Elijah said to him, I am the only one of the Lord's prophets left, but Baal has 450 prophets. Go get two bulls for us. Let Baal's prophets choose one for themselves. Let them cut it into pieces and put it on the wood, but not set fire to it. I will prepare the other bull and put it on the wood, but not set fire to it. Then, call on the name of your God and I will call on the name of the Lord, the God who answers by fire, He is God. Then all the people said, What you say is good. Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, Choose one of the bulls and prepare it first, since there are so many of you. Call on the name of your God, but do not light the fire. So they took the bull given them and prepared it, and they called on the name of Baal from morning till noon. Baal, answer us! They shouted. But there was no response. No one answered. And they danced around the altar they had made. At noon, Elijah began to taunt them. Shout louder, he said. Surely he's a God. Perhaps he's in a deep thought or he's busy or he's traveling. Maybe he's sleeping and he must be awakened. So they shouted louder and slashed themselves with swords and spears as was their custom until their blood flowed. Midday passed and they continued their frantic prophesying until the time for the evening sacrifice. But there was no response. No one answered. No one paid attention. Then Elijah said to all the people, Come here to me. They came to him and he prepared the altar of the Lord which had been torn down. Elijah took twelve stones, one for each of the tribes descended from Jacob to whom the word of the Lord had come, saying, Your name shall be Israel. With the stones he built an altar in the name of the Lord. And he dug a trench around it large enough to hold two saiz of seed. He arranged the wood, cut the bull into pieces, laid it on the wood. Then he said to them, Fill four large jars with water and pour it on the offering and on the wood. Do it again, he said. And they did it again. Do it a third time, he ordered. And they did it a third time. The water ran down the altar and even filled the trench. At the time of sacrifice, the prophet Elijah stepped forward and prayed, Lord, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known today that You are God in Israel and that I am Your servant and have done all these things at Your command. Answer me, Lord. Answer me so these people will know that You, Lord, are God and that You are turning their hearts back again. Then the fire of the Lord fell and burned up the sacrifice, the wood, the stones, and the soil, and also licked up all the water in the trench. When all the people saw this, they fell prostrate and cried. The Lord, He is God. The Lord, He is God. Now I have to admit, this is one of my favorite stories from the Old Testament. This is a, I love showdowns. Mr. P, do you like showdowns? I like old westerns. You know what I mean? Old westerns where the old tattered sheriff comes walking out, spurs, jangling, six shooters on both sides. And here's the whole bad guy army in all of their black trench coats and black hats and shotguns. And there's the one man and all of a sudden, wow, wow, wow. And the dust goes by. And then when the dust settles, who's standing? The good guy. I love showdown stories. To me, this is one of the most famous showdown type stories from the Old Testament. But this morning, I want to show you how I believe this story can impact our understanding of prayer. Notice the key element that Elijah did is not anything forceful or human in nature. He answered with prayer. And a lot of times I think when we find ourselves in areas of struggle or trial, we are apt to fix it ourselves. We are apt to, oh, I can do this. Or, you know, if I do this, I can fix this problem. Elijah knew that the root of the problem lie not in his physical ability, but in prayer. Now, before we unpack this, I want to establish the setting for you because the Old Testament is a pretty big section of the Bible and it covers a lot of time period. So here's the setting. In order to properly interpret the story that we read out of chapter 18, you first have to understand what happened in chapter 17. You have to go back to chapter 17 because that's what sets the stage for the showdown in 18. So the setting in chapter 17 goes as follows. We are in the Kingdom of Israel, which means we are after Solomon. Remember we talked about this? The first king was Saul, then David, then Solomon. Then after Solomon, the kingdom fractures into the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. Last week we were looking at Jeremiah and Judah. This week we're looking at the northern kingdom of Israel. They are not following God. Ahab is king. He's brought his girlfriend Jezebel into town. And along with his girlfriend came his girlfriend's idols. Jezebel brings her pagan influence into Israel and they start setting up pagan altars and they start having pagan worship. And before you know it, God's people are no longer His. They're no longer just His. They're worshiping other gods. Or as the scripture says, they're committing adultery on God because they're no longer being faithful and they're worshiping these other idols. So God speaks to Elijah, and you can see it right there in chapter 17. God tells Elijah that he is going to stop the rain. He's going to cause it to not rain and induce a famine because of the rain. Now the first thing you have to understand is why God could have just chosen for the crops not to grow. He's that powerful. But that's not what He did. He stopped the rain and I want you to understand this. Why did God choose rain as the measurement of stopping the crops from growing? Because it was believed that Baal controlled the weather. So God's going to show his supremacy over an Old Testament idol right in that guy's backyard. So Baal was believed to be a god of prosperity. Now remember, we're in ancient times, several hundred B.C. What is prosperity to them? Rob, it's largely agricultural. Prosperity comes from how much you can grow, how much you can harvest, how much you can sell. So Baal is believed to be a god of prosperity. And in agricultural, prosperity also means weather. So God has chosen to show his supremacy directly in an area that challenges what these people worship, this guy named Baal. So that's why the rain stopped. Because of the rain, the crops didn't grow. Now they are induced as a famine. If you go back to 17 and you see Elijah sent to the widow at Zarephath. And if you read that story, it's super awesome. Elijah goes to a widow's house and she's got a minimal amount of food. And he says, listen, the Lord sent me here. Make me a cake really quick to eat. And she says, this is all we have. But if the Lord said to do it, I'll go ahead and do it. And there's a miracle that happens at the end of 17, where she never runs out of food. Her food is miraculously multiplied to provide for not only Elijah, but for her and her son. Her son dies, Elijah lays down, brings him back to life. I mean 17 is a legit story. But all of that is the precursor to 18. All of that, can you take me back to the very first text, the one where Ahab says, you troubler of Israel. I want you to see this. We're going to get it right there, fourth line down. Is that you, you troubler of Israel. See Elijah went to the people and he said, y'all, y'all done started worshiping other gods and now it ain't going to rain no more. And Ahab,