Alright, good morning and welcome to Readswood. All of you who are joining us on Facebook. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us as we get into our teaching this morning. We are going to be continuing our series entitled, His Story or History, which is a year-long walk through the story of the Bible. When the Bible story opens in Genesis 1, 1, God created the heavens and the earth. When the Bible closes at the end of Revelation, Amen. However, from God created to Amen, Tina, there's an awful lot of history that happens. There's an awful lot of people and stories and events. And so many times, when we study the stories of the Bible, Mr. Pete, I think we study them in isolation. This is the story of Adam and Eve. This is the story of Moses. This is the story of Joshua. This is the story of David and Goliath. And we fail sometimes to show that Mr. Don, all these stories are connected. The reason the Word of God is a sovereign document is it is inspired Scripture. It is God-breathed Scripture. And there's a big story at play weaving its way through the pages of Scripture. And that's what I hope that we will examine as we go through the nine periods of biblical history. You can see here, we are still in the prehistory period. So prehistory is everything from creation to knowing the great flood, the key thought for this entire series is this, God's unfailing love for an imperfect people is the big story of the Bible. God's unfailing love for an imperfect people. Mr. Bill, that makes me feel pretty good because I know I'm not perfect. And if I had to be perfect in order to earn God's love, woo, me and Rob are in trouble. The rest of y'all might be okay. But Rob and I, we know we got problems. We got issues. So as we examine the big story of the Bible, I want us to see, Wes, the pages of Scripture are filled with imperfect people. And yet God and His sovereignty loves them anyway. Now our message this morning comes from Genesis 4, the first 16 verses. We are going to examine Cain, the first son. So the Bible opens in Genesis 1-1. God creates the heavens and the earth. We go through creation. Genesis 2, we get a detailed look at the creation of man and woman. Genesis 3, we have a problem in the garden. Sin enters the world. Adam and Eve are excommunicated from the Garden of Eden. Cue Genesis 4. The first marriage now becomes the first family. The first marriage now becomes the first family. And I realize many people know this story as the story of Cain and Abel. What I hope to show you this morning is it's really the story of Cain that involves a little bit about Abel. But if you look at the verses, the story is so clearly about Cain. Yes, Abel actually doesn't even have any lines. He's mentioned. The actions about Abel are mentioned, but he doesn't actually speak at all. So that's why I've entitled this message Cain the first son, because the breadth of these 16 verses focuses on Cain and his relationship with God. So here it is, Genesis 4, the first 16 verses. This is the New International Version. Here's how it reads. Adam lay with his wife Eve, and she became pregnant and gave birth to Cain. She said, with the help of the Lord, I have brought forth a man. Later she gave birth to his brother Abel. Now Abel kept flocks, and Cain worked the soil. In the course of time, Cain brought some of the fruits of the soil as an offering to the Lord. But Abel brought fat portions of some of the firstborn of his flock. The Lord looked with favor on Abel and on his offering. But on Cain and his offering, he did not look with favor. So Cain was very angry, and his face was downcast. Then the Lord said to Cain, why are you angry? Why is your face downcast? If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? But if you do not do what is right, sin is crouching at your door. It desires to have you. But you must master it. Now Cain said to his brother Abel, let's go out to the field. And while they were in the field, Cain attacked his brother Abel and killed him. Then the Lord said to Cain, where is your brother Abel? I don't know, he replied. Am I my brother's keeper? The Lord said, what have you done? Listen, your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. Now you are under a curse and driven from the ground which opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. When you work the ground, it will no longer yield its crops for you. You will be a restless wanderer on the earth. Cain said to the Lord, my punishment is more than I can bear. Today you are driving me from the land and I will be hidden from your presence. I will be a restless wanderer on the earth and whoever finds me will kill me. But the Lord said to him, not so. If anyone kills Cain, he will suffer vengeance seven times over. Then the Lord put a mark on Cain so that no one who found him would kill him. So Cain went out from the Lord's presence and lived in the land of Nod, east of Eden. Now, some of us who grew up in church, we may be familiar with this story of feuding brothers. But again, let me caution you. Don't get too distracted by Abel. Abel is not the focus of this passage. In fact, you even notice, he was only mentioned in the passive. All of the action is with Cain and God. So focus in on Cain and let's break this down and take a look. First I want you to see this. The first family, or who I refer to as this at this point, Adam, Eve, Cain, and then Abel, remains faithful. Let's look at Genesis 4, verses 1 and 2. Rob, what happened right before Genesis 4, 1 and 2? They got kicked out of the Garden of Eden. Sin entered the world and Adam and Eve are extricated from the Garden. And in verse 1 and 2, Adam lay with his wife Eve, she became pregnant and gave birth to Cain, and she said, With the help of the Lord, I have brought forth a man. Now, one small thing, just in case you may be wondering, why is the word Lord there in all capitals? You realize when the Scriptures were written, it wasn't written in English, right Tony? Jesus and Moses did not speak King James English. I didn't just rock anybody's world right there. The Scriptures were written in Hebrew. Well, the Old Testament has multiple words for Lord or for God. One of them is Elohim. That is a general reference to God. But Mr. Pete, there is a personal reference to God, Yahweh or Jehovah. In your English translation, if you ever see the word Lord in all capitals, just like that is in the NIV, that is signifying to you they are using the private covenantial name for God, Yahweh, in the Hebrew Scriptures. If you see it just capital L with a lowercase o-r-d, Mr. Don, that means it could be Elohim or Adonai is another Hebrew word for God. But when you see it in all big caps like that, big flashing lights should go off. Miss Brandy, that's the covenantial name for God. That is Yahweh, the name that He chose to give to His people for them to know Him intimately. And that is the name that Eve uses here with the help of Yahweh, with the help of the Lord, I have brought forth a man. And later she gave birth to his brother Abel. So Miss Cindy, as chapter 4 opens, you know what I see? I see that when Adam and Eve got kicked out of the garden, they didn't walk away from God. Yes, they sinned. But that sin did not cost them all of their faith. They didn't walk away from God and go, forget this God character, let's go make a house somewhere else. Let's go live somewhere else. Eve still intimately believed in God. Her relationship with God is reflected in the words that she uses. There is still very much a faith element to Adam and Eve in their relationship with God here in the beginning of chapter 4. So what I want you to see as we start the story is Miss Tiff, yeah, sin entered the world. Yeah, Adam and Eve cost them dearly for sin. But you know what it didn't cost them? Their relationship with God. There is still very much a faith element here involved in the first family. And we're going to see in a minute that they pass that faith element onto their kids. So don't think just because Miss Lisa, Adam and Eve got kicked out of the garden that they still did not have a relationship with God. Clearly Eve still has a very covenantial relationship with God because the word she uses, also I have brought forth a man and later she gave birth to his brother Abel. Here's the second thing. Cain's heart tainted his offering. This is verses 3 through 5a. Now Abel kept flocks and Cain worked the soil. In the course of time, Cain brought some of the fruits of the soil as an offering to the Lord. Stop. Where did Cain and Abel learn to worship the Lord? From their parents, exactly right. So now we can say not only did Adam and Eve have a very strong relationship with God, Miss Janie, so did their children. They taught their children post-Eden to bring offerings to the Lord. And as Mr. Rob pointed out, it's about to create a problem. And we know that. It's about to create a problem. But what I want you to see here is there's only one place that Cain and Abel could have learned to bring offerings to God. And that's from their parents. Those of you who are in this room or those of you who may be watching online, you have a scriptural responsibility to train up a child. Not only teach your children, a friend of mine on Facebook this week posted, how do you teach your children to live godly? And the very first thing that the very first person said, he said you've got to model it. You've got to let them see it. You can't tell them live godly if you don't. So the very first thing we as parents must do is do everything within our power to model living godly. What I can say here is, Miss Angie, clearly Adam and Eve still continue to do this after they were excommunicated from the garden because Cain brought an offering to the Lord and Abel also brought one. Abel brought fat portions from some of the firstborn of his flock. So now let's address probably the most misunderstood or misinterpreted part of today's passage. Cain and Abel both brought offerings. Mr. Robb's already addressed that. Why does God reject Cain's offering and accept Abel's? Some have tried to say, Mr. Jack, that Cain should have brought a blood offering, but he only brought fruit of the ground. Basically what they're trying to go for is if Cain had brought a blood offering, it would have been accepted. I do not believe this is accurate. Yes, we know later in Scripture that blood must be offered for the forgiveness of sins, but Mr. Robb, I don't see anything in this passage that dictates this is a sin situation. This is a worship situation. That word offering does not mean sin offering. It just means we're giving something to the Lord. Furthermore, if only offerings that could be accepted were of blood, why then when we get to Leviticus and God lays down the law, are there such things as grain offerings and wine offerings and drink offerings? So I don't want us to read this passage and see that Cain's offering is rejected because it is the fruit of his soil, whereas Abel's offering is received because it's the lamb that was slain. That's not why Cain's offering is rejected. Cain's offering is rejected because of this right here. Cain brought some of the fruits of the soil. This word some here in the Hebrew does not mean the first bit. What does God want? God wants the first. He wants the first fruits. The best. The top. He wants it first. That word some there, think leftovers. Cain brought leftovers. What did Abel bring? Abel brought the fat portions, which is the nicest, the choicest, the best part, fat portions of the firstborn of his flock. Do you notice that the text is going overboard to illustrate the quality of Abel's offering versus the quality of Cain's offering? Cain's offering is not rejected because it's not blood. It's rejected because it's not first. He did not give to God first. He gave God whatever was left. What does that mean? Well, Miss Ilona, he kept the best for himself. Abel does not do this. This is so important to understanding why Cain's offering is rejected. Miss Cindy, Cain brought leftovers when Abel brought the first and the best. That's the difference between Cain and Abel's offering. And why do I say that his heart is tainted? Because Miss Carrie, the only reason you don't give God first is because you have a selfish problem. Look, even Carly, I've got a witness in the back. Carly gets it. Come on, son. Carly's a-menning me from the back row. She gets it. God wants to be first in our lives. And yet, Cain made himself first. When you make yourself first, Maeve, it's almost like making yourself the idol. It's making yourself the idol and putting God in the number two. And to steal another line from Rob's thing earlier, we all know number one. God's so good at number two. So Cain gives God the leftovers. That's right. Abel gives God the best. The Lord looked with favor on Abel and his offering, but on Cain and his offering, He did not look with favor. So Miss Brandy, before we go any further, not only does the first family sustain faith after Eden, not only do they pass offering and worship down to their children, but clearly they at least taught God to give God first because Abel got it right. Abel did give to the Lord first. Abel did give to the Lord his best. But Cain's got a heart problem. His heart problem says, you know what? I want to keep, Mr. Bill, I want to keep some for myself. So I'll tell you what. I'm going to take this off the top. I got a little bit of this left. God, here you go. You can have some of that. It's a heart issue. It's an attitude issue. Abel made sure to give God his best. Cain only gave God the rest. Cain's heart affected his relationship with God. Look at verse five, B through seven. So Cain was very angry and his face was downcast. You see the selfishness here, Rob? Watch this. Then the Lord said to Cain, why are you angry? Why is your face downcast? If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? Travis, if we would just do what God wanted in the first place, would Cain have a reason to be angry? No. You know what Cain's really angry about? God wouldn't meet him on his terms. God wants Cain to meet God on God's terms. Cain wants God to meet him on his terms. And this makes Cain angry. I don't know how anybody else feels about that, but to me it just seems so stupid. You created your own problem and then you cried and whined about it. If you had just done how God... Dude, what does God say? If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? It's not hard. Just give to God first and your offerings are accepted. I believe the Bible says Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father but through Him. I'm not fighting the rules, dude. I get it. Right? How hard is that? Salvation is offered freely through Christ. All you've got to do is accept the rules. You're going to get all the way to eternity and say, yeah, God, but I think it should be another way. That's Cain's problem. He wanted God to meet him on his terms rather than just submitting to the terms that God had set forth for him. But if you do not do what is right, here it is. Sin is crouching at your door. It desires to have you, but you must master it. Tony, something else I find amazing about this passage. We are after Eden. Sin is in the world. Cain is having a one-on-one conversation with the Holy God Almighty. Let me say that again. We are after Eden. Sin is in the world. And Cain is having a one-on-one relationship conversation with Yahweh. That means that despite sin, God still loved His creation. God has a relationship with Cain enough, Mr. Pete, enough to point out his heart problems before they become a bigger problem. Cain's relationship with God is still very good. Ms. Jones is strong enough that God is trying to point out things in his heart before they grow to become bigger problems. Cain's problem is not that he doesn't have a relationship with God. Cain's problem is not that he didn't bring an offering to God. Cain's problem is he wants to look like he's faithful but keep things for himself. That's Cain's problem. Sin is crouching at your door and it desires to have you, but you must master it. How many of you, if God said that to you, would not at least stop and go, hmm, okay God, you're choosing to point out that sin is right at the door of my heart. Maybe I should take a gut check. Maybe I should take a heart check. Maybe I should call a brother, call a sister, go get some coffee. Hey, help me figure this out. Before it gets bigger, before it becomes a bigger problem, look what happens next. Cain's heart embraces sin and resists repentance. This is verses 8-12. So God tells Cain, Travis, better watch that heart. Sin's right at the door. It wants to have you. So what does Cain do? Hey Abel, let's go out in the field. Not listening. Cain's not getting it at this point. And while they were in the field, Cain attacked his brother Abel and killed him. What was Cain's biggest sin? Some people want to point out jealousy. I think jealousy's driven off the selfishness. Cain wanted to define how God would work in his life. And you don't get that privilege. We are the creation, not the creator. Cain tried to define it and then when faced with someone who did obediently obey God, what does he do, Mr. Don? Well, if I just kill him, I feel better about myself. I at least brought an offering to God. Those pagans over there, do they bring offerings to God? No. So if I just kill Abel, then my obedience looks better. This is the problem of quality by comparison. Quality by comparison always fails. Why? Because we should be quality by God's standards, not by looking better than another human being. So he kills his brother, and then look, his relationship with God is still there because God talks to him again. Then the Lord said to Cain, where is your brother Abel? Now where have I heard this before? God asking questions He already knows the answer to? This smacks of Eden, doesn't it? Does God already know the answer to the question? Absolutely, He does. He's sovereignly omnipotent and omniscient. So why does He ask the question? Same thing He did with His parents last chapter. He's offering the opportunity to have honesty, repentance, and confession. Just like God did with Cain's parents in the garden. Who told you you were naked? Did you eat in that tree? God does the same thing here with Cain. What does that show me? The same level of compassion God had before sin, He still has after sin. God turns to Cain. Where is your brother Abel? Rob, of course God already knows. Parents, how many times as parents have you asked your children a question that you darn well know you already know the answer to? I love it when parents are staring at their children. Hopefully all of you are uncomfortable. How many times have you asked a question when Ms. Ruth, we know the answer. What do I really want? I want to see my child be honestly repentant for wrong. Unfortunately, Cain does not do this. What does Cain do? Cain responds with attitude. I don't know. Am I my brother's keeper? Not only now is he mouthing off to God, which is attitude in and of itself, not only is he mouthing off to God, but he's denying his familial relationship with his brother. Yo, that's Abel's problem. I don't know where he at. How about you go find him? You're God. I mean, do you hear the swaggy attitude that Cain has with God? Keep in mind, this is within his relationship with God in a world full of sin where God's still gracious. And he's still trying to offer Cain the opportunity to repent. I don't know. Am I my brother's keeper? And then God says, okay, fine. Let's talk about what happens. What have you done? Listen, your brother's blood, your brother's blood, like English is good for me, cries out to me from the ground. He offers Cain the opportunity for repentance. Cain responds with attitude. And God says, okay, brother, show's over. I know. And now I'm going to tell you that I know. Your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. Now you are under a curse driven from the ground which opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. What was Cain's occupation? He was a farmer. He was someone who tilled the land like his daddy. Right? What was Adam? Adam tilled the ground. So what does God do here? God installs a punishment for sin that directly affects his life, his livelihood, his provision. It also directly affects his relationship with God. When you work the ground, it will no longer yield its crops for you. You will be a restless wanderer on the earth. Miss Brandy, not only does Cain lose relationship with his family because he's about to get thrown out of town again, just like mommy and daddy did, but he also loses God's supernatural provision at his day job. His day job is a farmer. Cain is not a priest. He doesn't work in a church full time. There is not a church at this point. But God blessed the work of his hands. What does God do? God removes the blessing, just like he did with Adam, when thorns and thistles began to grow because of sin. What happens here? Cain receives grace within his consequences, verses 13 through 16. Cain said to the Lord, my punishment is more than I can bear. Stop. English translations have a hard time getting this word in the Hebrew because it has two meanings. The word punishment there in the Hebrew literally means my evil, my iniquity, my wrongdoing, and therefore the punishment and the recompense consequences for that evil, iniquity, and wrongdoing. It's all wrapped up in this one big word. So if we substitute the word punishment for the word evil, and by evil I mean the evil that Cain did and the consequences for the evil, my evil and its consequences is more than I can bear. Today you are driving me from the land and I will be hidden from your sight. I believe that what Moses intended in his writing is Cain's not just complaining about the punishment. Cain now has the heart that God wanted him to have originally. He recognizes the depth of his depravity and his evil. Here's the problem. Forgiveness of sin does not mean absolution of consequence. He still suffers the consequences of his actions. But when you understand the full depth of that Hebrew word, it's not just the consequences of his actions. It's the consequences of Cain's evil that he recognizes. The consequences bring him to the knowledge of how deep the evil actually was. He recognizes his evil and its consequences. And what are those consequences? You are driving me from the land, my source of provision, and I will be hidden from your presence. That's why I believe Cain is coming to a repentant moment. Christian, he not only realizes there are physical consequences, he realizes there are spiritual consequences in my relationship with God because of the sin I have committed. That's why I think it's my evil and the punishment that came with it, in parenthesis, is more than I can bear. Because why is Cain lamenting being driven from God's presence? If he was not repentant, God's presence wouldn't matter. Because he's saying, but I'll be driven from your presence. There is a part of him that laments being driven from God's presence. That's why I believe we can say in this moment, Cain is repentant. God would have preferred repentance before when he said, where's your brother? But he's convicted. He experiences this conviction and he realizes not only are you driving me from the land, but I will be hidden from your presence. I will be a restless wanderer on the earth and whoever finds me will kill me. For the wages of sin is death. But what happens? The Lord says, uh-uh. But the Lord says, uh-uh. If anyone kills Cain, he will suffer vengeance seven times over and the Lord puts a mark on Cain so no one who found him would kill him. I can't tell you how many times I have heard people talk about the mark of Cain as a negative thing. Cain marked him because of his sin, much like the scarlet letter from English history or from U.S. history. The mark that God puts on Cain is for his protection, his rejection. Now, I would argue it does symbolize his rejection because he's admitted he's being driven from the Lord's presence. But Miss Lisa, look at what God says here. No, the Lord put a mark on Cain so that no one who found him would kill him. In the midst of the consequences of Cain's sin, God provides life from death. God is as gracious to Cain as He is to us with Christ. In the midst of the penalty of our sin, the sin that drives us from God's presence, God says, no, no, no, no. You've suffered the consequences from me. I will not allow another human to do this. And so, furthermore, I'm going to put a mark on you that the mark is you are my protected son. In the midst of your rebellion and your disobedience and having to suffer the consequences of your evil sin, you are still my chosen son. My chosen disobedient suffering the consequences of your sin, son. But notice Cain does not lose his sonship. What he loses is his intimate relationship with God. In the beginning, God said, dude, this is what's going on in your heart. God had an intimate relationship with Cain. He does suffer the consequences of his sin. So then ultimately what happens? God issues grace within consequences. He gives them the mark of protection. So Cain went out from the Lord's presence and lived in the land of Nod. What is the ultimate outcome of his sin? He loses his relations his close relationship with God. So Cain went out from the Lord notice the capital there, Yahweh, Jehovah, covenantial name for God. So Cain went out from Yahweh's presence and lived in the land of Nod, east of Eden. Now, who wrote the book of Genesis? Moses? Who did he write it to? The children of Israel. So what would it mean to Moses' intended audience, the children of Israel, to be driven from Yahweh's presence? That's the ultimate bad. You know what I mean? Bad bad. Uber bad. Super bad. Way bad. The original Hebrews would have known being driven from Jehovah's presence is the worst of the worst. I'm without the presence of my covenantial loving God. And yet, Ms. Brandy, we see even as Cain is driven from his presence, he's not driven from the Lord's protection. He's not driven from the Lord's grace. He experiences the consequences of his sin in the middle of God's grace. Or I could say the grace in the middle. So what's the takeaway here? The story of Cain should be read as a warning for all believers. Any unresolved heart issue will often lead to sin and further separation from God forever. Even in the midst of consequences of sin, God's grace still abounds for His children. Oftentimes we read the story of Cain and Abel like a tale of two brothers. Abel's the good guy and Cain's the bad guy. That's not what those 16 verses say. Those 16 verses, Cain had a relationship with God. Ultimately did not conquer his sin issues. His sin issues took over his heart. He resisted repentance. He believed him to sin. He got the consequences for those sins. But Mr. Rob, how gracious is God that in the consequences of our sin, His grace still protects. His grace still guards. Cain should be read as a warning for me and for you. Sin is at our door. Sin is at the door of our hearts. And if you don't master it, you will end up doing something jack-waddy stupid. And you will suffer the consequences of your stupid actions. God will not necessarily fully revoke His grace and protection. But that's why I like the phrase, forgiveness of sin does not equal absolution of consequence. God in His grace allows us the consequences of our sin. Miss Kerry, hopefully so it teaches us not to do it again. There is some grace in understanding the consequences of sin. And that's why I say I believe Cain is convicted at the end of this story. He's driven from your presence. He longs to be close to God when the reality is, Mr. John, his actions have driven him from. And here's the problem, you can't go back and rewind the past. Only God is able to see all things at all times at the same time. We as humans, we are locked into the directional arrow of linear time. We can't go back and unwind. That does not mean we are without God's grace. So as you're sitting here this morning, or you're maybe watching it online later or now, where is God's grace in your life? Where are the consequences of sin in your life? And if God were to look into your heart today and say, Travis, Rob, Wes, Jack, Christian, sin is crouching at your door. Master it or bad things are going to happen to you. New International Bill version. What would you say to Him? Would you say, I'm good, I got this! I'm good. I read my Daily Bread today, sin's going to be held back because of my devotional life. No, sin gets held back because of the power of Christ and the Holy Spirit. Sin does not get held back because you read a cookie cutter devotional. Not that they're bad. I write the devotional for you guys too. But sin is held back when the Spirit reigns in your heart. And that's what God was trying to get Cain to see. Cain, sin is crouching at the door of your heart. I could say it to you this morning. Church, sin crouches at the door of all of our hearts. Don't allow sin to take root and ultimately drive us further from God's presence. Because it is going to sting. It is going to suck. You get driven from the Lord's presence, it's not a happy day. Thankfully, His grace is enough to sustain and hold us. So do me a favor, take out your connection card. Ms. Kim introduced you to this earlier in the service. I think the story of Cain is a fantastic example of God's grace within the destruction of sin. Sin has some massively destructive effects in our life. But God is still gracious within that destruction to call us to Himself.