Good morning. Hi, welcome to Reid's wood. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining our service and being a part We are just getting ready to start our teaching series this morning We would have started this last year, but I had our last week But I had a family thing and had to be out of town. So we begin a teaching series this morning entitled victory Discover the secret of biblical blessing discovering the secret of biblical blessing Now the first thing I have to say is this The word blessed has become almost cliche in our culture today, right? You hear people saying hashtag blessed Bruno Mars threw it in his song So fresh got to blame it on Jesus hashtag blessed if I had so hey listen, I could use a Bruno Mars quote on a Sunday Okay, it makes my point if Bruno can put it in a song. It's made it to a certain level of cultural familiarity We've got I'm so blessed or I'm too blessed to be stressed. I've heard that one, right? we've turned this idea of blessed into Joe little more than Christian luck maybe or or or financial only blessing I know people talk about blessing only as checks in the mail or refunds and the sad reality is The Bible has a lot to say about a God who wants to bless his children But we've relegated all of the good meat that the Bible has to say to tell evangelists who want to sell handkerchiefs and Promise you that you'll have be blessed if you buy this handkerchief Mr. Pete, that's a travesty. Why do we let one fringe group or one fringe area or one fringe? Heretical doctrine like the prosperity gospel Ignore the true biblical reality that there is a sovereign God who loves his children and does intend to bless them That is the intent behind this series So I need you to take the word blessed and the idea of blessing and then you to disconnect it from anything That culture tells you is real and Rob, let's re-examine What that word really means from within the context of Scripture? So here's the key thought for this series God can and will bless his children, but there are rules to Biblical blessing let me say that again God can and will bless his children I believe in a sovereign God who is the same yesterday today and forever I believe in a God who is endlessly loving But I also believe in a God who wrote his word and his word is true and every jot and tittle of his word is true So if we're going to talk right every jot and tittle down to the minutia of the letter We're gonna talk about biblical blessing and in order to do this. We are going to go back in time To the period of Joshua now those who were with us last year when we did the giant walk through the scripture What's the major event that precedes the wilderness wandering? What's the big mate the Exodus right the Exodus from Egypt that puts you in like the Moses era God saves and redeems his people from slavery beautiful image of Christ right redeems us The problem is this angel because of obedience they wandered in the wilderness and an entire generation minus two dudes had to die off and then Joshua assumes Directive and godly command of the children of Israel and now they are about to walk into their land of blessing The promised land was promised all the way back in Abraham Wednesday night We do a lot of talking about the Abrahamic covenant watched Abraham be jacked up and then finally get it right God promised that land all the way back to Abraham don't forget that but it's not here until Joshua that his people actually take receipt of That promised blessing so let's let's get into this first the title of this morning's message is the secret to biblical blessing Preparing for blessing the text will be Joshua chapter 1 verses 1 through 18 So if you want to turn or tap with me to the book of Joshua, we're gonna walk through the very beginning God preparing his people to receive his blessing and something else I'll tell you this if you have only read the book of Joshua as a military manual Mr.. Chris you're a military man I imagine you would understand and glean a lot from the battle tactics that you see in the book of Joshua But that's not all the book of Joshua has to teach us. It's not just an ancient recording of ancient battles We're gonna walk through the beginning of this book, and we're gonna see very clearly how God showed his children I'm a bless you, but you had to follow the rules to receive it so watch this first point Blessing is rooted in God's covenant promises Joshua the first four verses After the death of Moses the servant of the Lord the Lord said to Joshua son of noon Moses's aid stop Now we're starting mr. Pete. We're put in our biblical context right Moses the Titan of faith the prophet of God the Servant of the Lord who redeemed the children of Israel out of out of Egypt has now died Egypt is redeemed or Israel's redeemed from slavery, but not blessed in their promised land yet. They're in this like Like limbo period and then who comes into play here Joshua son of noon or son of none Moses's aid now I want you to notice here. What does the scripture say about Moses servant of the Lord? What does it say about Joshua aid? If you read the entire book of Joshua one thing you will notice Moses is always referred to as the servant of the Lord It's not to the very end of the book that they give Joshua the same title It's as if the whole book of Joshua Joshua is proving to the children of Israel I will be the servant that Moses has been the other thing. I want you to understand is this word Joshua right here Joshua is the English version of that name anybody know what the Hebrew version of that name is Yeshua and in Latin it becomes Yesus which in English becomes Jesus Joshua this man right here his literal first name would have been Yeshua or Yeshua meaning Yahweh saves Isn't it very in fact you go back and look Moses changed Joshua's name right before this book begins to Yahweh saves Yeshua Yahweh saves so Joshua very clearly one of our type typological Pre-shadows of Jesus he is Moses's aid meaning he has been by Moses society has been under the tutelage of Moses Moses my servant is dead now then Not a lot of time to wait God says alright margarita Whoa now then You and all these people get ready to cross the Jordan into the land I am about to give them to the Israelites I will give you every place where you set your foot as I promised Moses Your territory will extend from the desert to Lebanon and from the Great River Euphrates and all the Hittite country to the Mediterranean Sea in the West Does that anywhere Travis say that you have to take it? No the book of Joshua begins with miss Stacey I give to you Happy Christmas I give the book of Joshua begins with the preconceived conclusion that the kingdom of Canaan already belongs To the Jews chip God is going to give it to you. However Why that's the big question, right? Why does the book of Joshua open with the preconceived understanding that Israel is already owed the promised land? Because if you turn all the way back in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 12 You'll meet the beginning of the story of Abraham where God said go to the land that I will show you and then further when? 14 and in 15 God describes the land miss Tiff it has already been deeded to the children of Israel They've been given a promise, but now it's time to take receipt of that promise you understand the difference Israel has already been promised the promised land Rob way back in Genesis, but now here in Joshua now they have to take receipt of that promise next Blessing is administered through relationship. So first blessing is seen through God's covenant next it is seen through relationship five and six No one will be able to stand against you all the days of your life as I was with Moses So I will be with you pause right like excuse me for a minute while Pete and I just wow on that This is the Lord God Jehovah sovereign creator of the world the God who empowered Moses to do all the crazy cool things that he did in Exodus All the plagues and the staff that turned into a snake and the river Turning into blood and the parting of the Red Sea all of those miracles weren't done in Moses's strength They were done in God's providential grace and here miss Lisa Joshua is finding out Just as I have been with Moses so I will be with you I will never leave you or forsake you I Gotta say Chris. This is starting out with a pretty awesome promise now keep in mind. This is the beginning of Joshua He hasn't led yet Mr. Davey yeah, he hasn't led anything yet He's been sitting at the feet of Moses learning from Moses's faith learning for Moses's actions Being molded iron sharpens iron style Lifestyle ministry and now here chip he gets this promise I Will never leave you or forsake you so that's these first three lines are all God right God I will be with you God just like I was with Moses God. I will never leave you God I will never forsake you now Linda here comes Joshua's part be strong and courageous Now again why I had to preface it the book of Joshua is not only a military book if all you read is military might Then you're gonna read those verses because it's a military book If all you read is military might then you're gonna read those verses be strong and courageous and see it as be stronger than the other warriors Be courageous when you fight because you might lose that's really not what God has said here does that mean that he doesn't that he doesn't need courage No, but this be strong and courageous is in Encouched in these first three verses. What is he being strong and courageous in his faith? God is the one who gave them the land they still have to take it They still have to walk it out so many times God gives us a promise but Rob We still got to walk the deck you still got to get to the promise that God is going to give you in the same Instance God is telling him listen Mr. Pete I'm gonna roll with you the same way I rolled with Moses. Just trust me be courageous in trusting me And then what happens why be strong and courageous because and then the rest of this is why I'm gonna promise to be with you I'm gonna be powerful your job be strong and courageous Why because the cause you will lead these people to inherit the land I swore to their ancestors to give them Do you notice miss angel the beginning in the end or couched in God's promises? God promised to give him the land God promised to be with him just like Moses Mike The only thing Joshua has to do is be strong and courageous in his faith and trust in God's promises Why because I swore this to your ancestors and now I'm gonna make it do it's almost like chip I bought you a bond a long time ago your granddaddy bought you a bond and now the promise is ripe It has come due all you got to do is trust that that bond is still good So the question I have for you this morning is is God's word still good? I would argue. Yes. I think that's why we're all here this morning God's word is still good whether he promised it to Abraham whether he promised it to george washington And where we promised it to pete this morning during worship practice God's word is always good however Let's be honest Megan I think oftentimes We doubt If God's word is still good even though in church, we're all going to say yes. Amen totally brother I absolutely believe God's word is all good, but it's not you that has to walk it, right? It's not you that has to walk around the city of Jericho seven times It's not you that has to be circumcised at mount garrison. We'll get into all of that There's an aspect of faith that requires action in trust miss angel. That's where we're at. I will never leave your sake you because You will lead these people to inherit the land but notice the reception of the land is still In God's promises in order to understand true biblical blessing. You must start at what are God's Promises and so many times I think we make the mistake of going God i'm going to go this way bless it Not the right choice God, which way do you want me to go? bless that Right so many times we put our our path in front of us and say lord if it be your will bless this path And the subtext is leslie because i'm already going there Instead of wait a minute, which way is it that God wants me to go? Because that way will automatically be blessed. So let's go forward blessing is contingent on obedience This is joshua 1 7 through 9 again to repeat be strong and very courageous In your faith be careful to obey All the law my servant moses gave you do not turn from it to the right or to the left That you may be successful Wherever you go if you have a bible long press underline highlight color circle Asterisk do something that you may be successful Joshua's success the children of israel's success Is dependent On their obedience to God's word now. Why is that? Because the reception of the promised land is contingent on God's word God's already promised it chip if I promised you something All you have to do is know whether my word is good enough to sustain the promise However, if you step outside the bounds of the relationship the covenant relationship I have given you you've walked away from my word not me You've walked away from my promises you've walked outside of my plan for you Well ken if you're going to take your own wandering you're not going the way God has put you to go So there's a two-fold trust here one. I have to trust that God's word is true two I have to trust that I can be obedient to what his word says Now mr. Christian that that relies heavily on the fact that you actually know what God's word says, right? Not picking on you directly, but just you and I right here in this moment If you don't know what God's word says, how can you be obedient to it? Now if we look back in the in the in the In the early days of ancient Israel, they clearly studied it They knew it they they read it the the shema and deuteronomy 6 write it on the doors of your home Talk about it when you get up when you lie down teach your children There wasn't a question about whether they knew what God's word said but there was a giant question whether they did what God's word said He says so that you may be successful keep this book of the law always on your lips Meditate on it day and night so you may be careful to do everything in it Look at that then You will be prosperous and successful If we want to bring this forward into our time in our day, we've established that God's word is always true, right? We've established that God's loving sovereign character doesn't change. Yes Then neither does that promise now miss Cindy in my theological view I don't see the church as replacing national israel. We'll get into a whole lot more of those issues when we tackle revelation later this year But this promise is for the nation of israel to receive that specific land However, the contingency right of obedience. I would argue applies to all of god's promises collectively God has made us certain promises in his word that do apply to us, right? Lord and there are certain promises that have been given to you and I as a new testament church However, I would argue the contingency factor is the same I may not I I do not believe that I am a native born hebrew Let me just say that for those who don't know me. Hi, my name's bill My dad is native hawaiian my family's from the island of hawaii. We are polytheistic pagans through and through I do not believe in any in any understanding that I am a native born hebrew or a descendant from the original abraham In my theological understanding then there are certain components of the old testament promises like the land that don't apply to my hawaiian people Praise god the new covenant in jesus christ absolutely applies to my soul So there are promises I can hold And there are promises I can appreciate Now different theological camps look at israel in the church differently. I'm just giving you my take of how I roll with it I don't believe that when jesus comes back i'm going to be given land here, but I do believe I will be a part of that kingdom I will still have my king. I will still have my savior and my I don't want to say my membership, but my blessing like this is going to depend largely on my obedience It's going to depend on do I not do Do I meditate on god's word day and night? I'll tell you right now. No, I don't I fail at that all the time I'm, sorry if that's super disappointing to everybody I listen to my audio bible in the car as much as I can I can learn more auditorily than I can visually stigmatism read fall asleep very fast. So Auditory bible suck it down suck it down listen to it. But do I meditate on it every day miss carry? I don't i'm sorry There are days that school takes precedence. There are days that work takes precedence There are days that my children take precedence there are days that my marriage takes precedence But do I get into the word every every chance I can squeeze in the time. Yes, I try my best But forgive me. I'm also human But if I don't spend time in his word, why be careful to do everything written in it? Have I not commanded you? Here's the third repeat of this be strong and courageous In your faith do not be afraid Do not be discouraged why for the lord your god will be with you wherever you go Mike if you are a member of the new testament church You have been saved and sanctified by the blood of jesus that also means you've been indwelt with the holy spirit You know what that also means that also means for the lord your god will be with you wherever you go That part of this promise same for you and me all day long I got the holy spirit in me when i'm sinning and when i'm sainting Right holy spirit goes with me if you never thought about that one that'll spin your head at night Every sin you're involved in you drag the holy spirit with you because he's in you he's watching you We have part of this promise miss angel. God is with us wherever we go. The question is do we do the first? Are we careful to do everything written in it moving forward blessing does not exclude personal responsibility Here's the rub of the book of joshua joshua chapter 1 10 through 15 So joshua ordered the officers of the people go through the camp and tell the people get your provisions ready I don't know why joshua's a deep voice but go there three days from now You will cross the jordan to go into the land and take Possession of the land your lord your god is giving you for your own rob Just because god promised it doesn't mean they didn't have to go take possession of it But who is the primary causal force in the children of israel receiving the promised land their military might or god's sovereign will? God's sovereign will however god's sovereign will did not exclude their military prowess And you can go through the book of joshua. You can see the spies you can see the subversion in the battle at ai There's a lot of military tactics. I'm sure rob chris chip some of jason our military men could see more than I do Because because I don't understand all that but I do know this god promised and they had to walk it out In fact in a few weeks, we're going to look at 35 men who lost their life Because they didn't follow god's word obedience to god's a major issue in the book of joshua Three days from now, you will cross the jordan. You will take possession But to the rubinites the gadites the half tribe of manasseh joshua said remember the command the moses the servant of lord gave you After he said the lord your god is giving will give you rest by giving you this land Your wives your children your livestock may stay in the land moses gave you east of the jordan But all your fighting men ready for battle must cross over ahead of your fellow israelites You are to help them until the lord gives them rest as he has done for you until they too have taken possession of the land The lord your god is giving them after that You may go back and occupy so here's what happened If you look at the way god promised the land there are three tribes that get to live on I guess in your perspective east, right? East side of the jordan Everybody else gets to live on the west side of the jordan, but here's the problem All the fighting men over here have to help their bros over here and not only do they have to help you have to lead Your families get to stay over here in the land that god has given you your families get to immediately receive all that blessing But guess what everybody of military age go grab your spear go grab your shield You are going to lead your brothers into battle. Why? Because mr. Kyle If I was on the eastern side people and I knew all I had to do was survive To go back and take the blessing that's mine on the eastern side of the I would be lazy, right? Me and zach we would just hang back We'd watch chris and tyler and travis they could like run up. You know ken you guys run up into battle gung-ho Me and me and zach are going to hang back Why because my family's already received the blessing my family's already living on the east side of the jordan in the land God has given them and they are already blessed. So me and zach we're going to hang back We're going to be a little cowardly. We're not going to push all the way The problem is if anybody in all of israel does that all of israel isn't fighting for its promise So god forces those families on the eastern side of the jordan to lead the way into battle Why because zach and I are now the most motivated to get home We are the we're not fighting for the land i'm gonna live on i'm fighting for the land rob's gonna live on i'm fighting for The land that pete's gonna live on i'm fighting for the land that chip's gonna live on that kyle's gonna live on why? Because my wife and kids are already at home They're already building their homes There is a personal responsibility given to those through the rubanites the gaddites and the half tribe of manassa Zach we got to gear up You and I we have to lead all of our brothers into battle just because god has given us the land does not exclude our personal responsibility Here's the tough part Still got to do your part when now how do we bring that forward into today? Just because god and here's this is gonna suck. Okay, let me just say that up front You're not going to like what i'm about to say Just because christ has bought you eternity with god Does not mean your sin struggle tomorrow goes away right You got to be like the rubens the rubanites the gaddites exactly the half tribe of manassa You got to gear up every day and fight the spiritual fight the lord has left for us Because miss carrie i'm promised a home in heaven. I am not promised freedom from sin tomorrow But we have help we're indwelt with the spirit. We have brothers in arms to fight with But we still have to fight Spiritual warfare one of the least talked about topics in all of the church We must understand we live in the midst of a spiritual battle until the day that jesus comes back now the fun thing about being a christian Is zach we fight from a place of victory not victim I fight with the winning king already done like to to look at it in my world The chess game is already over. I've already beat rob. I just need the clock to run out right I've already beat rob at chess But the game's still going and that means I still need to be aware just like these guys here We are not absolved from our personal responsibility Just because we have jesus I would argue jesus gives us more personal responsibility because now we got you got that salvation part now We got to live out that sanctification thing. You know what I mean? That daily becoming more like jesus daily dying to self daily dying to sin daily living in holiness We got to do all of that jazz now Whereas before when I was living in sin, I just had to daily keep on sinning Because we have jesus because we have this inheritable promise. We have a greater responsibility And we owe it to our brothers and sisters next blessing is both individual and corporate joshua 1 16 through 18 Then they answered joshua. This is the nation answering joshua back Whatever you have commanded us we will do and wherever you send us we will go Just as we fully obeyed moses, so we will obey you Only may the lord your god be with you as he was with moses whoever rebelled. Well, hold on stop. Let me take this first Here we see the response from the children of israel Rob i'm down I believe you are moses's replacement I believe god is going to be with you as he was with moses So I pledge my allegiance now question is are they pledging their allegiance to joshua? Are they pledging their allegiance to the god that joshua is representing? Right don't get it wrong. They're not taking the promised land because joshua's got the good-looking jaw like travis does right they're not The jaw is going to help right jaw is going to help when we get to the rehab scene the jaw is going to be useful right, but until then I'm going to trust in the god who is with you as he was with moses I am going to commit I will go wherever you go. We will fully obey you now. Look at this sentence here Only may the lord your god be with you as he was with moses Joe it's a little weird in english that almost reads like doubt, doesn't it? If you were to swap the word only for the word surely Which is really more contextually in hebrew what it means surely The lord your god is with you as he is with moses That's what they're saying They're saying katie I totally believe god is with you and because of that I am totally all in for where god is leading us They're not doubting that god is he's not saying he's not saying only they're saying only as jason There is no other way to understand this other than god is with joshua. I am with joshua. I am with god That's the the faith part that the children of israel respond here Whatever and then look at this whoever rebels against your word and does not obey it whatever you may command them Will be put to death and then the repeat again only be strong and courageous in your faith That's what that courage is all about Notice their level of commitment tiff Anybody in the nation who doesn't obey you? We're just gonna ax them off why? Here's the big why right are the children of israel being mean are they being selfish? No Something we sometimes neglect to understand because see we live in the age of the church miss brandy You have the holy spirit and I have the holy spirit ian has the holy spirit mave Has the holy spirit we live in a faith In which each of us individually has a relationship with god and therefore We collectively have a relationship with one another the old testament is the reverse of That we collectively have a relationship with one another because we collectively have a relationship with god Let me say that again In the new testament times each one of us individually filled with the spirit each one of us individually saved by the body and the blood of Christ. Because of that individual relationship, we are now collectively the body, right? The Old Testament is the other way. The Old Testament, God had relationship with the nation. Their relationship with one another was their corporate relationship to God. So Chip, here's the problem. In the Old Testament times, it required the entire nation's obedience to receive the entire nation's blessing. And you'll see that when we travel through, when you get to the story of Achan, the entire nation loses, 35 soldiers lose their life because one dude's disobedience. Now, I'm very thankful the Lord chose for me to be born in the New Testament church time. I'm also very thankful that I was born in the era of air conditioning, amen. And bacon, amen. However, in the Old Testament, God's blessing and relationship with His children is a corporate matter. That's why this bottom line is so important. Kim, if one family is out of line, it costs all of the nation of Israel the blessing from God. Now, praise Jesus, we live in an individual relationship culture. Praise God, we individually have the spirit. But I'll tell you this. Now, this is my personal opinion, stepping off the page, trying to bring it to you here. I personally believe that we together have a corporate responsibility when it comes to growing this church. If you came to church today thinking it is solely my job to grow the church, I am sorry. I don't have that much juice and I'm usually the Energizer bunny. Right? It can't be only my responsibility to grow the church because that's not what the New Testament shows. The idea of the professional pastor is completely devoid from the New Testament scriptures altogether. There was never supposed to be the paid dude. There was never supposed to be the paid pastor. In my opinion, the paid pastor is the biggest insult to the American church because we don't believe that there are men sitting in the pews who are capable of doing what I'm doing here. Like, I just think that's silly. I believe I have a calling and I've been called to do this and I'm glad for my calling. But we have a corporate responsibility to reach this community. We have a corporate responsibility to show the love of Christ, to be the hands and feet of the Holy Spirit. Which means, if we have a corporate responsibility, that means the corporate future of our church, Mr. Don, hangs on all of us, not just me. I don't want all of that weight on my shoulders. Can I say that honestly? Like, is that fair? I don't want it to all hang on me. You know why it's bad? What happens if I get hit by a bus? I'm trying to be realistic, Laura. If I get hit by a bus, let me tell you this, biggest thing I think our church needs to change and it's my family that needs to get out of the way. If my family goes out of town, you lose your main preacher, you lose your worship leader, and you lose your kids director. My family is too integral to the church. You guys have to work me out and work my wife out of those things. It's not safe. It's not good. It's not healthy for my wife and I to be filling so many roles. Now, to get us where we need to go, Maeve, totally down. And I told this in the interview, you're going to get every ounce of my energy every week when I come to church. No matter what the church needs, I'm going to do it. You're going to ask me to play piano? I'm going to do it. You ask me to play guitar? I'm going to do it. Ask me to teach? I'm going to do it. Ask me to stand at the door and hand out bulletins? I'm going to do it. Because I know we've got to get this engine moving. But at a certain point, for our church to be fully and collectively blessed, we have to start working in a full and collective manner. We've got to be the body. And the cool thing about the New Testament is we have the understanding of the body of Christ. They didn't have that in Joshua. I'm only one component. I'm the toenail. You're welcome. Well, I could have picked a less... But you get what I'm saying, right? Collective blessing still exists today. Collective blessing... and I'll go even forward. Collective blessing can still exist for this church, but it cannot rise and fall on only myself, on only my family, on only the board, on only the elders, on only the deacons. It's got to rely solely and only on all of us together. Being the church that God has called us to be. You pull that off, and Mr. Jack, we won't be able to keep up with the growth. It's going to run away from us. And I believe that's God's design for our church. We're already feeling some of that tension, and I don't believe it's going to stop, but I believe it's going to get worse. That God's going to continue growing our church. But, now, one thing I will say, Rob, I don't think we need to put people to death if they're disobedient. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I know I've got a major disciplinarian in my best friend over here. But I will say this. We need to be committed all in about God's plan for us and for our church. So, let me give you the wrap-up here. What's the first secret I need you to understand about biblical blessing? You cannot be biblically blessed if you are not in right covenant relationship with God and in obedience to His Word. That's the first thing I want you to know. There is such a thing as real biblical blessing. There is such a thing as the God who owns the cattle on a thousand hills, the Creator of heaven and earth, who desires to bless His children. This is not TV preacher stuff. This is Bible stuff. You know the difference? None of, most of us, I want to say none of us, because Heather's here. She's perfect. None of us. You shush. Your wife is sitting next to you. You shush. Here's the truth. None of you want to hear that your blessing is contingent on your obedience. But that's what I have to tell you today. Your blessing is contingent on your obedience in covenant relationship to God. If you want God to bless your life, start with your covenant relationship with Him and your obedience in that relationship.