So this morning we are going to conclude our series entitled Victory Discover the Secret of Biblical Blessing. So each week during this series we have examined the concept of the word blessed. Jeff, the word blessed exists in a lot of our culture. We use it and say I'm hashtag blessed. I'm too blessed to be stressed. Bruno Mars put it in his song I'm So Fresh Gotta Blame It on Jesus. Hashtag blessed. It became a cultural word, something cultural that we use. But Miss Linda just because it's cultural doesn't, cliché thank you, doesn't mean we should ignore the biblical reality of what that word means. The word blessed is a biblical word. If it's in the Bible, Mr. Bill, I think we should study it. If it's in the Bible, I think we should read about it. So this series is designed for us to examine how the loving God of the Bible actually blesses his children. Because Romy, I believe God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. I believe if God blessed his children in the Bible, that means he can bless us today. So that brings me to the key thought in this series which is this. God can and will bless his children, but Kippie there are rules to biblical blessing. And if we don't follow the rules, then you don't get the stuffs. See and just even there, there's another cliché, the idea that the blessing of God is always a thing. The blessing of God is always of monetary value. I think we've seen there's a lot of blessings God gives that you can't balance out on your checkbook. That don't balance out on those spreadsheets that Zach Novitski and I like to make so much. Big data guys, shout out to the spreadsheets people in the building. I love my spreadsheets, I love my data. Geek life, totally strong. But there are things that God's going to bless us with, Ms. Linda, that won't factor into a metric. And that's why we need to go back to the scriptures and we need to look at. So here's the title of this morning's message. Discover the secret of biblical blessing. The severity of sin. The severity of sin. Now we've been in the book of Joshua every week for this series and Jeff we're going to stay there. So if you brought your Bible or your phone with you this morning or if you're watching online, please do me a favor and turn or click to Joshua chapter 7. Turn or click to Joshua chapter 7. Now to review, what have we seen so far in this series? First, we began in Joshua chapter 1. God told Joshua, be strong and courageous. I heard it, be strong and courageous. Because I will be with you as I was with Moses. So the children of Israel, the story of Joshua, let's talk about when in the biblical timeline. Those of you who hung out with us last year, you got that big overarching view of the Bible. So the story of Moses, God redeems his people from Egypt, Prince of Egypt. Great movie, love the music. You watch Prince of Egypt, God redeems his people from sin with all those miraculous 10 plagues. Then they wander in the wilderness, Chris, because we have a disobedience problem to deal with. They wander in the wilderness and then ultimately they are led to the River Jordan. God tells Joshua, time to do this. I'm going to be with you as I was with Moses. You're going to lead my people into the promised land. But Miss Brandy, before they do that, they had some stuff they had to do. We saw that God required them to re-circumcise the nation. Because oddly enough, all the people who lived in Egypt were circumcised. But all of the boys who were born during the 40 year wilderness wandering were not. That meant Israel was out of obedience to God. They had to do that. They celebrated the Passover. Then the Ark of the Covenant went before Israel. And when the priests stepped into the water, what happened? The river stopped flowing 26 miles away. If you go look, Joshua is at 5'6". You see it mentions the name of the town and the name of the nearest town. And Miss Stacy, 26 miles away, the river stopped and stopped flowing all the way down. And they cross on dry land. And then what do they do? Then he redeems at Gilgal. They celebrate the Passover. Miss Heather, last week we watched the manna that God had provided them supernaturally during the 40 years. That turned off. Why? Because they finally ate of the fruit of the land of Canaan. Then we're going to skip over to Children of Israel fight the battle at Jericho. Ultimately God delivers Jericho into their hands. They don't actually fight it first. They walk around. How many of you remember the VeggieTales cartoon? Where they walk around, right? The peas. Come on. Some of my VeggieTales fans, they walk around the building. Then for seven days they walk around. And on the seventh day they walk seven times. And what happens? God fractures the walls of Jericho open. The Children of Israel go in and they get it. Then they go to their next battle, the battle at Ai, which happens in chapter six. We're skipping that one. The enemy is defeated. And then after that, we make it here to Joshua chapter seven. Where now we're going to discover what happened. Why was the Children of Israel defeated last chapter at the first battle of Ai? So that's my review. So let's go into the first point here. God is always angry with sin. Let's just, woo man, Miss Linda, let's just hit it. Let's just go right for the gut. God is always angry with sin. Does that mean God is not gracious? No. Does that mean God is not loving? No. Does that mean God does not love the sinner? No. But does that mean God loves sin itself? No. God is always angry with sin. That does not mean he's not gracious. Does not mean he's not loving. Does not mean Jesus didn't die. Does not mean we're all going to hell. It does mean God hates sin. Foundational principle. God doesn't like sin. Take a look at Joshua chapter seven, verse one. But the Israelites were unfaithful in regard to the devoted things. Achan, the son of Carmy, and the son of Zimri, the son of Zirah, of the tribe of Judah, took some of them. So the Lord's anger burned against Israel. Now, Jeff, remember, like we were skipping over certain parts of Joshua so I could try to stream all this together. What happened in the last chapter is God gave them the city of Jericho. They went, great! Let's go look for the next one. They find the next city, the city of Ai. They go up against it. Unfortunately, 36 Israelites die in the battle of Ai. And that's because of this right here. The Israelites were unfaithful in regards to the devoted things. So let's review. What are the devoted things? Well, God said when they defeated the battle of Jericho, God said, all of the spoils of Jericho are mine. All of the spoils of your very first battle, Ashley, they belong to God. They don't belong to you. You will eventually get to eat of all this land and you will eventually get to own all of it. But the very first thing that you earned is going to belong to God. Why? So that you would know it was him who gave you this land and not your military money. Look it from the other people. You're going to give me and devote to me, devote by fire. Basically, it's called being under the ban. Rob D were banned from being allowed to have the stuff from Jericho. Unfortunately, Mr. Tucker, not all of Israel obeyed God's commands. Go figure, right? Angel, I know it would have been us, right? We're all perfect, right? You're married to Rob. Of course you're perfect. But unfortunately, we're in ancient Israel in the beginning of the conquest and somebody's not following the rules. And then here in verse one, that someone is named. So Anita, we're looking at a guy named Achan whose daddy was Kamri or Karmie, whose granddaddy was Zimri, whose great-granddaddy was Zira from the tribal tribe of the Golan. Whose granddaddy was Zimri, whose great-granddaddy was Zira from the tribe of Judah. He took some of them. Some of what? Some of those things, Travis, that you were supposed to leave and give to God. He took. And the Lord's anger burned against Israel. Why? What by definition is sin? Disobedience to God. Sin in its very nature is disobedience to God. God gave us a very clear picture, Dave. You're going to win Jericho, but you're going to me, the first fruits of your conquest of the promised land. Ties right in where Chris was talking earlier. You're going to give the first bit to me so you can trust me. And then you'll live off the rest. But that first bit comes to me. So let's move forward. What happens next? Sin causes a removal of God's protection. Here's verses chapter seven, two through five. Now we're going to watch the first battle of Ai. Now Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is near Beth-Avon to the east of Bethel, and told them, go up and spy out the region. So the men went up and spied it out, and they returned to Joshua. Here's what they said. Not all the army will have to go up against Ai. There it is. Send two or three thousand men to take it, and do not weary the whole army, for only a few people live there. So about three thousand went up, and they were routed by the men of Ai, who killed 36 of them. They chased the Israelites from the city gate as far as the stone quarries, and struck them down on the slopes. At this the hearts of the people melted in fear and became like water. So let's back up and take a look at what happens here. So we've just finished. I got a little ahead of myself, Chris, and I apologize for that. We just finished Jericho. We just finished defeating Jericho. We were the nation of Israel in this story. We just finished defeating the nation of, or the city of Jericho. Next, look here, Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is the next nearest town. They spy out the region, and the spies come back and they say, Chris, bro, it's going to be super easy, man. We don't need to send the entire army. Let's just send a couple grand. Now in comparison, we're talking only a few percents of the giant army that is the nation of Israel. So Joe, put this in perspective. If we just used our entire army to defeat Jericho, but you're like, I could probably do this with like three squads of good guys. So let's let everybody take a break. Go ahead and give me Chris's squad. Give me Zach. Give me Chris. And I'm going to use Wes, and Wes will be on point. That's all I need. This town is not hard. Notice that. They size up the military venture they need to defeat Ai and Joe. It's not even worth 5% of their military strength. This tells you how small Ai is. Don't miss, you know, Maeve, sometimes we don't want to miss the little details, those numbers, those distances, those amounts, because they reveal a very shocking truth. The reality is the nation of Israel only needed less than 5% of its military fighting force to defeat the number of people that were at Ai. So like Zach, bro, how about you mount up and we let everybody take the night off? So let's give them a break. Let's give them a break. Let's give them a break. You, me, Chris, you know, Wes, Chip, we'll go take this out. It's going to be easy. We'll be back before nightfall. Okay. So they send two or 3,000 men to take it, not to weary the whole army. They go up, and they are routed by the city of Ai. Routed means they are caused to go back. We are attacking, we're attacking. Oh, we didn't anticipate this. We are caused to retreat, sounding retreat. We are now fleeing, Ms. Linda, from the very people that we were sure would be a super easy military victory. We only sent a few soldiers. Why? Because these people don't look that tough. And now all of a sudden we've been routed by them. And what happens? Thirty-six soldiers die in the first battle of Ai. Kippy, circle, long press, highlight, do something. Hold on to that number, because it's going to be vitally important when we get to the end of the chapter. Thirty-six people died in this failed battle at Ai. Go forward one more, what happens? And this is also important if you watch the whole story here. These people from Ai not only repelled them from their town, but Mr. Don chased them halfway across the back 40 and got them out of their land altogether. Remember, this was supposed to be an easy military victory, and the people at Ai completely defeat them. And what is the Children of Israel's response? The people's hearts melted in fear and became like water. Now do you guys remember when the Children of Israel crossed over the Jordan River? What was the Canaanites' response to God drying up the river? Fear. The local Canaanites' hearts melted in fear. Why? Because God had done, whatever God is behind the Israelites, bro, they're big enough to stop an entire river. How do we stand up against this? Now that tide has turned. Ai has been able to defeat Israel, and now Israel is the one whose heart is melting in fear and becomes like water. So let's keep going forward here. Mournful prayer, mournful prayer is the proper response to a loss of God's blessing. This one might sting a little bit, so let's take a look at it together. First, then Joshua tore his clothes. Then is obviously in response to something. What is Joshua responding to? He's responding to the defeats. He's responding to the defeats and the loss of 36 men. And he says, he tore his clothes, fell face down to the ground before the Ark of the Lord, remaining there until evening. The elders of Israel did the same. They sprinkled dust on their heads. Stop. When was the last time you did that? Okay, let's put some cultural context to this. Miss Leslie, this is a classic biblical example of mourning. Not just sad, not just upset, mourning. I am in deep mourning and normally we mourn because we have lost something. We are not just throwing our pity party that we got defeated. Mr. Christian, I'm not just sad that I didn't win the battle. I am mourning the loss of something. Now where are they mourning? Joshua tore his clothes, fell face down to the ground. Where? Before the Ark of the Lord. Now remember when we talked about the Ark crossing the river. What is the Ark, the physical manifestation of? The presence of God amongst his people at this time in the Old Testament. The Ark of the Lord is the physical symbol of God's presence with his people. And this is where they're mourning. Miss Brandy, this is where Joshua is tearing his clothes, ashes on his face. He is falling face down and mourning in the presence of God. The visible manifestation of the presence at this point in biblical history. He is praying and mourning to God. Now look at what he says here. Alas, sovereign Lord, why did you ever bring these people across the Jordan to deliver us into the hands of the Amorites to destroy us? If only we had been content to stay on the other side of the Jordan. Do you see how Joshua's heart has totally changed here? Now what I do think is interesting about this prayer is the focus is still on God. Alas, sovereign Lord. He's not given into the lie that God's not powerful enough. He still calls him the sovereign Lord. God is still sovereign over all. And he also notices that the Lord brought him there. Why did you ever bring these people across the Jordan? He understands God has brought them to deliver us into the hands of the Amorites to destroy us. Here's the crux, Jeff. We're upset because the God that we thought would protect us has pulled back his protection. And because of that extraction of God's protection, we've experienced a military defeat. And he is mourning that loss of protection. And then he says, if only we had been content to stay on the other side of the Jordan. Was it God's plan for them to stay on the other side of the Jordan? No. It was God's plan for certain tribes, right? We saw the half-tribe of Manasseh, they stay on the other side. But it's God's plan to give all of this land to his Israelites. We saw that all the way back in Genesis 12. Those are on Wednesday nights we're going through Genesis. God made promises way back when that are now coming due. It's always been God's plan to give this land to his people. But Kippur, Joshua's got to deal with the emotional blow that we thought we were invincible. And we found out we're not. Go forward, look at what he says here. Pardon your servant, what can I say now that Israel has been routed by its enemies, the Canaanites, and the other people of this country will hear about it, and they will surround us and wipe us out, wipe out our name from the earth. What then will you do for your name? Notice, Laura, he couches what will happen to Israel and how it will reflect on God. His understanding is still centered on God, even though he's dealing with a massive emotional moment right here. We thought, Beverly, I thought we were good. I thought God had our back. And now he has it. And I've got to ask myself, Lord, what's going on? Notice there's nothing in Joshua's prayer that assumes anything has happened outside of God's will. You notice that? He didn't come out of the box and say, hey, Katie, where was God? Where are you at? Did you see what they just did? Did you say what they just did to my friends? Thirty-six of my friends are dead in a ditch. God, where were you then? He doesn't say that. He said, Lord, if this is what you're doing, what is the outcome going to be for us? And Ms. Kim, what is that outcome going to reflect on you as the God who's supposed to protect us? So don't see Joshua's prayer as a lack of faith, but he's absolutely frightened by what is going on. So then watch what happens next. Sin blocks God's blessing, verses 10 through 13, my favorite line in this entire chapter, Heather. The Lord says, stand up. What are you doing on your face? I have to say, I feel like God's getting a little tucky here. He's like, hey, stand up. What are you doing on your face? Israel is sinned. They violated my covenant, which I commanded him to keep. Like, it just sounds like a really angry New Yorker. I don't know where Joe is right now, but that's what it feels like to me. God's like, he sees his son. He sees his chosen, anointed servant on the floor in front of his presence. And he's not like, oh, Joshua, it's OK. Stand up, buddy. Come on, we can do this. No, stand up. What are you doing on your face? Anita, he's mourning before God. And God's like, dude, will you get up? Like, what are you doing down there? Because why? Watch this, Miss Brandy. What are you doing on your face? Israel has sinned. To God, it's a clear cause and effect relationship. Miss Heather, why are you bothering to mournfully pray? You sinned, and this is the fruit of that. What's the problem? From God's perspective, it's just a clear relationship. Bro, you sinned. You made your bed. Now you get to lie in it. So he says, they have violated my covenant, which I have commanded them to keep. They have taken some of the devoted things. They have stolen. They have lied. They have put them with their own possessions. Now, at this point in biblical history, Moses has received the Pentateuch, what the Jews will call the Torah. They have the law. Let's just talk about the top 10, right? The 10 commandments. How many commandments are violated in this scene? Well, obviously there's lying. Thou shalt not lie. That's kind of like a big one. There's stealing. Thou shalt not steal. That's kind of a big one. There's coveting. I want what you have, so I'm going to take it. That's kind of a big one. And also there's another one that's kind of implicit in the text, but not explicit. Mr. Jack, idolatry. You shall make no other gods before me. When you don't obey God and you obey your own fleshly desires, you're putting your own fleshly desires above God. They just broke four of the 10 commandments in one fail swoop. One action for the big 10 down. And God says, dude, Heather, I'm sorry. Get up. Wipe your tears. So what happens next? This is why this... I'm sorry. Moment here. Zach, this is why. Like I could pretty much just drop the mic here and be done. This is why, Ms. Leslie, why the Israelites cannot stand against their enemies. Why they turn their backs and run because they are liable to destruction. Look at this. I will not be with you anymore unless you destroy whatever among you is devoted to destruction. Now keep in mind where we're at in biblical history. God has just led the children of Israel into the promised land. But the promised land, while they're standing on it, Rob, we haven't received it yet. There's still a lot of God's protection we need. And God clearly says, listen, I will not be with you if you don't do what I say. Now bring that into a modern day context. How would it feel if you're praying and you're praying and you're praying and you're asking God to do something and God goes, Ashley, will you get up? Why, if I could paraphrase this, why are you bothering to ask me for things when you don't do the things I've asked of you? I mean, it's a very clear relationship. It's cut and dry. God's very clear. So what does he say? Here's your prescription. Go, consecrate the people and tell them, consecrate yourselves in preparation for tomorrow. For this is what the Lord, the God of Israel says. They are devoted things among you, Israel. You cannot stand against your enemies until you remove them. Whew. I mean, yeah, man, like that's a heavy thought. And granted, we are not the children of Israel. We are not standing on the preppesess of the promised land. So Rob, I don't know if you've talked to your neighbor yet, but if he gives you his land because you tell him God told you to, that would be the exception. In our day and time, we live in the New Testament church. But I'll tell you this. If you wanted this principle full forward in today, Jack, I would say this. Why would you expect God's blessings living a life focused on sin? That's absolutely a principle that we can bring forward. I've said before, my ancestors are Native Hawaiians, polytheistic to the core. I don't believe that I am in any way related to the national Jewish people. I don't. That makes me a Gentile Christian saved by the grace of Christ. Praise God for that. But that doesn't mean that those ancient promises to Israel still apply to me. It means the New Covenant applies to me. My Savior applies to me. But this idea of living in sin but still wanting God to bless me, I think that applies today. I can think a lot of people are like, man, God, how many people's prayer life gets better when you get pulled over by the police? I'm just saying, right? All of a sudden, you see those red and blue lights in your rear view mirror? You remember how to intercede. You remember how to pray. All of a sudden, somebody presses the prayer button on the back of your butt, and you're holding on to the prayer button. Jesus, Jesus, I know I was wrong. Jesus, I know I was speeding, but I had a good reason. I was on my way to the hospital to pray for orphans. Jesus, help me. I mean, come on, your prayer life gets a whole lot better when there's something on the line. That's what they're doing here. That's where Joshua's at. There's something very real on the line, not just the receipt of the promised lamb, but, Andrea, their lives. If they don't get back under God's protection, the Canaanites will wipe them out, and God will have to rebuild a brand new nation in order to fulfill his promises. Go consecrate the people. You cannot stand against your enemies until you remove them. So here's this. Eradicating sin should never be done halfway. This is verses 14 and 15. Eradicating sin should never be done halfway. In the morning, present yourselves tribe by tribe. The tribe the Lord chooses shall come forward clan by clan. The clan the Lord chooses shall come forward family by family. And the family the Lord chooses shall become man by man. Now the understanding of who Achan was from the beginning of the chapter makes sense, doesn't it? God already told us, the son, the father, the grandfather, the great grandfather, and the clan. Why? Because this right here. That's how he was going to be identified. Whoever is caught with the devoted things shall be destroyed by fire along with all that belongs to him. He has violated the covenant of the Lord and has done an outrageous thing in Israel. And now all of you are going, well, yes, this sin is paid for with a death penalty. But doesn't the New Testament tell us the wages of sin is always death? So I'm hopefully not rocking any of your theological camps. We understand that sin leads to death. But it feels a little extreme, doesn't it, Miss Cindy? Like, whoa, God, I mean, if you look, he kept some silver, an idol, a blue robe from the city of Babylon. Like, I mean, he kept some stuff. Miss Heather, don't blow a spoiled surprise. Don't blow it yet. I know you know where I'm going, but don't just hold that minute. It feels a little extreme, right? So I took some stuff. God, why do you got to kill me? Why do you got to kill me and my family and burn all my jank? Just because I stole some stuff. This is why I wanted you to remember the cost of sin. This sin right here, Achan stealing some stuff, cost 36 innocent men their lives in the first battle of Ai. Now, does that help put it in perspective? Or maybe I could say it another way. Sometimes we're not harsh enough on sin because we like to ignore the consequences they bring. Come on. That was an amen moment. Everybody just looked at me like, you know what it is? Everybody looked at me like, I'm not going to be the first one to say it, but that was good. You know, sometimes we're too light on sin because we're not honest enough about the consequences of those sin. So let me make everybody uncomfortable for a minute. Here we go. I did a little bit of research this week trying to find a real life today example of being so light on the consequences of sin that we authorize sin in our children. So I found a growing movement within the United States of America that's really based on a perspective that comes out of the Netherlands. So we could totally blame the Netherlands, but attitude exists here today. Without raising your hands, because I make you uncomfortable, without raising your hands, how many parents in the room think it would totally be acceptable to allow your teenagers to engage in sexual activity under your roof while you're home? Any takers on that? No. Teenagers, sorry. There was your shot. Here's what happened. Coming out of the Netherlands, there's a perspective that is being pushed by child psychologists and adolescent psychologists. And here's what it is. Chris, I don't agree with what I'm about to say. Please understand that. But I want to try to explain to you the argument that is presented here. So here's the argument. Chris, how do you expect your adolescents and your teenagers to fully understand what it means to be sexually healthy and to fully understand what type of sexual partner they want to find in the future as a mate if you don't allow them to experience sex in a safe, family-focused environment under your roof? That is legit the argument. Now, I will say again, I absolutely do not believe this, so please don't take that one snippet and call it what Pastor Bill thinks, okay? It's not what I believe, but it is out there. It is in our culture today arguing that you should absolutely let your teenagers have mixed-gender sleepovers for the purpose of sexual exploration because that's what's best for them. That is in our culture right outside this parking lot today. Now, I will tell you exactly why I don't think that's right. Premarital sex is sin. I can answer it with three words with a hyphen in it. God said no. Mama owns a gun. Like, you know what I mean? Like, I got a lot of answers for this one. And I know that we have a lot of parents in the room and I know we have a lot of teenagers and I'm not trying to point out any one teenager, especially the one in my home. She's amazing. But this is in our culture right outside those doors, an argument that would say there's no consequences to teenage premarital sex, none whatsoever. In fact, the consequences of not letting them experience that are they could be harmed later in life. They've completely obliterated the consequences of sin in order to authorize sin in our day. And that's right outside today. You can go look it up. It's from the Netherlands. Sorry that I spoiled your Sunday. But here's my point. If you disassociate the consequences of sin from the choices that make sin, it gets a lot harder to choose to be holy over here. You know what I mean? Why do I like I'll give an example from a marriage. My wife and I set a rule when we first got married. I do not have friendships or extended conversations with women who are not friends with my wife. Sorry. In fact, a couple of weeks ago, someone hit me up on Facebook used to go to a church that I went to like when I was like their age, like 12, 13 and just happened to ended up crossing paths on some message board somewhere. She said, Hey, you know, did you go to church at blah, blah, blah church? You know, at this, you went to school. I'm like, Hey, what's up? That's cool. She's like a nurse or something. I don't know. And so I let the conversation go on for a minute and nothing inocul. I mean, nothing bad happened in the conversation. But after about two days and we're still like reliving the heydays, which to me was really bored. I just had to say, I said, Listen, I don't need you to be offended, but I don't have extended conversations with women who aren't friends with my wife. So if you would like to continue having this conversation, you either friend request my wife and talk to her first or I'm out. Please don't be upset with me. But my wife is more important than this conversation. OK, that's my choice. It's a rule for our marriage. I try to instill that rule in as many premarital counseling sessions as I get. But you know what? I've had other people, Christian men, go, Don't you feel that's too controlling? That's too constricting. Why do you let your wife control your social life like that? I'm like, I don't. OK, number one, I don't want your marriage. Number one, I fought for my marriage to build a good one that's centered on Jesus. I don't need you. So to give an example from my own life, I know what the consequences of having conversations with women who aren't friends with my wife are. You're going to try to figure out how you can be replacement for my wife. That's not happening. Why? Mama owns a gun. Back to that one, OK? And I make light of that issue because our culture has a hard time being hard on sin. We shouldn't be ashamed to be hard on sin in the church. But not because we don't like people. I'm not going to point out the sin in my brother Romy's life because I don't like Romy. I'm going to challenge him privately and quietly and go, Romy, you're not experiencing all that God wants you to have because you're choosing sin over righteousness. That's the right heart. You're not going to walk in here and go, guess what? You're a sinner and you're a sinner, so am I. Hi, welcome to Sunday. We're all sinners. Let's get that off the table. We're equal in that regard. None of us are righteous in and of our own selves. We all walk in the door sinners. But if we disassociate the consequences from sin, and that's why I think you have to see the whole story here. Yeah, Achan and his entire family lost their lives because of his sin. I don't have the time to walk into generating cursive and all that stuff this morning, but I want you to see this. Don't look at how harsh that was and disassociate it from the fact that there are 36 Israelite wives who no longer have their husbands because of Achan's one choice. The consequences of sin always go beyond your own life. They always go beyond your own choices and your own actions. The consequences of sin are like a poisonous spider web that will radiate out from you and infect and affect more than you could ever realize. Achan did not realize that 36 Israelite families now have to grow up without a son. Had he realized that that could be the consequences of his sins, I choose to believe he would have made a better choice. Yes, it's a choice. I'm telling you, I choose to believe. Just as much as I choose to believe that if David knew that the sin in his life would cause hardship for Chris or Jeff or myself or Mr. Peter or Mr. Chip, I believe that his love for us would choose to not have that sin. And that's where we have to get to as a church, right? That's really what we have to get to as a global, not just our little church, but the big C, like every Christian who's ever lived. We have to get hard on sin because we need to get better at love, not because we're going to be a place of judgment. Every one of you walked in the door a sinner, congratulations. If you weren't aware of that, please see me after service. We'll have that talk first. But we all walked in the door a sinner. It's cool. It's okay. Which is better? The sinner who comes to church who tries to be righteous or the sinner who's still out there because they don't realize they need to change? I'd rather fill the church with sinners and let's talk about it. And let's talk about the consequences rather than, no, I'm not perfect. I hate that. Oh my gosh. I'm not good enough to go to church. I hear people tell me that all the time. Bill, I know you're a pastor, but man, your church would burn down if I came to your church. I was like, bro, I don't think you understand the level of sin that sits in our church on a Sunday. Maybe you'll just fit right in. And I'm trying to make light of it because I want to ask you the really important question. What's the sin in your life that's blocking God's blessing today? If you're the Achan, your life is also going to experience it. So here is your takeaway. How do I bring this forward to today? God's attitude towards sin has not changed. He still hates it. Though we have been granted the blessing of Christ, this does not authorize us to sin. The blessings the Lord wants to give us can still be blocked by the sin in your life. That's how I bring this passage forward to today. Am I talking about checks in the mail and lottery tickets and brand new Benzies? No, I'm not. I'm talking about provision, protection, joy in the midst of suffering. There are plenty of blessings that Zach and I can't measure on our spreadsheets. Doesn't mean it ain't real. The blessings of God are real. He is a loving Father who desires to bless His children. But He will hold back that hand of blessing because we choose sin over Him. Please don't be that guy. Please don't be that gal. Don't be the one guy in the group that says, yeah. But I like this a lot more. So I'm still going to choose this. I'm still going to choose this sin. Now, if you are legitimately, let's be honest, Miss Angel, just you and me, everybody take five. Not you, obviously, because I know you, but there are people who are so legitimately trapped in sin they don't know how to get out. That's a thing. Okay? That's an addiction. That's a real thing. I'm not saying that God's not going to pull you and redeem you out of the redemption. Yeah, because He did that with the Moses story before He brought to the Joshua story, right? God's still a God who saves. God's still a God who loves. But if you have a sin issue in your life that you for some reason can't figure out how to get over, that's because you need the help of the rest of the body of Christ. Nobody expects the stomach to also be the immune system. But you need to be honest. You need to be honest and bring it in and say, listen, Travis, I know I've seen you at church and I know we're both in the Coast Guard. I'm really struggling with something. Can we get a bite? Can we talk? Rob, I know you're also in the Coast Guard. Man, I'm experiencing this. Whatever it is, I'm not trying to point fingers. Heather, I've seen you at church. I know you homeschool your kids. As a mom, I'm struggling with, can you talk to me? But the biggest lie the enemy ever pulled is that we're going to judge you when we start being honest about the sin in our lives. And as long as you continue to believe that lie, you'll be trapped in that sin forever. Because until you get over yourself, go over your own arrogance, get over your own fears, and find one person in the body of Christ that you can talk legit with, you have no idea how freeing that can be.