Good morning. Welcome to Readswood. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us on Facebook for being a part of our Sunday service. Also, thank you to all of you who are listening to the sermon online after the fact. I don't want you to think we forgot about you. We do have some who stream the audio later. Thank you so much for joining and being a part. We are just getting ready. Turn that on. Just getting ready to start our teachings this morning. We are continuing our series entitled Worthless Worship. Now if you have not been here for each week of Worthless Worship, what we are doing is we are going through the Scriptures and systematically looking at several instances in the Word of God where people offered worship to God and he rejected it. Where his people gave him worship, attempted to worship him, and he rejected it. Now the key thought that holds this whole series together is this. Not all worship offered to God is accepted by him. Ms. Shelby, not all of the worship that we choose to offer to God will ultimately be accepted by him. In the first week of this series we looked at who? Anybody remember? Cain and Abel. That's right. One offering was accepted. The other was rejected. He got super jelly of his brother. And then you guys know what happened after that. Last week we looked at the second instance of rejected worship. Who remembers that one? Yes, the golden calf at Sinai. Moses goes up on the mountain. He's spending time with God. And yet the people at the foot of the mountain create a idolatrous idol to represent God. Aaron leads them in their idolatry and then God gets super upset with Moses. This week we are going to continue in that theme. This morning's message is entitled Worthless Worship. Worthless worship, profane worship. And if you want to turn with me to probably everybody's favorite book of the Bible, Leviticus chapter 10, we are going to look at the first 10 chapters of the book of Leviticus. Now if you are unfamiliar with the book, why did I make the joke that Leviticus is everybody's favorite? Because Leviticus is the book of the law. There's actually very few narrative stories in the book of Leviticus. Miss Janie, the one we are going to look at this morning is I believe the longest single narrative story in the book of Leviticus. So we'll be looking at what does it mean to offer profane worship. And Mr. Jack, as we get into the story, I'll tell you why I chose that particular word. So let me make my first point this morning and then we'll get into the passage. Right worship requires obedience. So right worship. Right worship. Jeff, the kind of worship that God accepts and not rejects. Right worship requires obedience. Let's look at the first two verses here. Aaron's sons, Nadab and Abihu, took their censors, put fire in them, and added incense. And they offered unauthorized fire before the Lord, contrary to his command. So fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed them and they died before the Lord. Super bright, encouraging passage to begin our sermon this morning. Miss Kim, this may be a passage you have heard of. For some of us, this is a passage that was very hotly debated. And there was a lot of controversy. And person A wrote a book and then person B wrote a book. And if you're not familiar with that, trust me, ask me afterwards. It was like hashtag big deal several years ago in theological circles. I do not want to enter into that debate this morning. So those of you who know exactly what I just talked about, that's not where we're going today. What I want to do is I want to try to stick exactly with the text and show you what the text says. And then we'll work on the application, Miss Kim, when we get to the end. So the first thing we notice here, the first two words, Aaron's sons. So first we have to define who exactly it is we are talking about. Who is Aaron? He is also the guy who made the golden calf. Exactly correct. Who is his famous brother? Moses. Anybody know the sister? Miriam. Oh, I got like five Miriams. That's fantastic. And what did Moses do that was like super important? Yes, Exodus led the Israelites out of Egypt. So this story takes place during the wilderness wandering period. So those who are tracking in your biblical history, Moses has redeemed the people from Egypt. Dave, 40 years, we have discipline problems. This is very early because Moses is still receiving the law from God. This story happens if you want to track through the book of Leviticus and you read through chapters eight and nine are vital. In my opinion, Miss Ilona, to understanding the importance of chapter 10. Don't just jump into the word and Jason think that the book of Leviticus begins in chapter 10 verse one. Aaron's sons took their censors. No, there's nine chapters of Leviticus that happened before chapter 10. And remember, Miss Linda, when the Bible was written, there were no first and chapter notations. Right? Moses is not sitting here receiving the law from God going, you know what, Zoe, I think this should be chapter 10. This is a good break. You down, Holy Spirit? Yeah, let's do that. Let's make this chapter 10. Moses did not do that. We didn't add the chapter and verses until hundreds of years after Christ. So when you're wanting to understand the meaning of a passage, actually put your blinders on and ignore all the chapters. Ignore all the verses. Ignore any of the cute little headers that your Bible puts in there. You know, ignore all of that and read the text. In fact, Miss Angie, when I'm trying to study a passage that I find challenging, I'll actually go like to like Bible Gateway dot com. I will copy the text of the Bible, paste it onto a blank page, delete out everything that the publisher put in. So that's the chapters, the verse, the chapters, the verse numbers, headers, any footnotes. Now, thankfully, I have a Bible in my office that does all of that. I have an actual printed book in my office that's the text of the Bible with no additional stuff in it. So you, Jason, it's kind of hard to take that one to Bible study because you can't just jump into Luke chapter 13. But if you want to read the text of the Bible in a more unfiltered way, I'd highly recommend it's called a Reader's Bible. They're wonderfully fantastic. If you want to come and see mine, see after service. But the reason I say all of that is, oh, to properly interpret this, you must go back and read chapters eight and nine. Now, Kim, I don't have the time to do all of that this morning, but I do want you to do that in your own personal time. I want you to go back and read chapter eight, then read chapter nine, then Mr. Don, come back to chapter 10. And I think you'll kind of try to feel what I'm going to lay down this morning. So Aaron's sons, Nadab and Abihu. Nadab and Abihu are not only the sons of the high priest, they are also anointed priests themselves. And you will also discover that they are among the 70 Israelite elders who ascend onto Mount Sinai into the presence of the Lord. Miss Lisa, these are not kids. These are not impetuous children who should not know better. Chapter eight and chapter nine established for us. These are priests before God. These are men of God whom the Lord himself has has selected and anointed and placed in any position in order to minister to Israel. And the first thing we see here is they took their sensors. Not bad. They took fire, put it in them, added incense. Not necessarily bad. But then look at this and offered unauthorized fire before the Lord. Now the word unauthorized there can actually mean several things. So depending on which Bible translation you happen to be reading this morning or which one you use on your app when you're reading, that word unauthorized can also be strange, foreign, profane, which is why I chose that as the title for this morning's message. Strange, foreign, profane, unauthorized. All of those words, Zach, can mean what we're trying to get at that one Hebrew word. What does it mean? Something about what Nadab and Abaihu did was directly contradictory to the way in which God had given them the instructions to worship. You tracking with me so far? Something that they did, and we'll unpack that something as we roll through, Dave, something of what they did. They offered unauthorized fire before the Lord, and look it says, contrary to His command. So I can't even really fault them for making an accidental mistake because, Jacob, the word says here contrary to His command, which means they did something that God done did, said don't do. Let me say that again. They done did what God said done don't do, and that's why they're going to pay the penalty for it. So you can't come into this story and think Nadab and Abaihu were little children, maybe they didn't know better. Nope, that's out. Eight and nine, they're going to guarantee that. Brandy, you can't come into the story and think that they didn't know the right way to worship because they did. Because the line here says they did it contrary to what God told them to do. And what was the cost? They paid with their lives. Right. Then fire came out and consumed them from the presence of the Lord. You want to see something really, really cool? Jason, go turn to the very last verses of chapter nine, and you will see there that fire came out from the Lord's presence then. Two verses before where we start right here, Miss Silona, we shouldn't separate those. We should look at the two of them again and go, well, how come when the fire came out at the end of nine, it was all cool? And everybody worshiped, they were excited about God's presence. Then fire comes out in 10, 1, and 2, and it's a bad thing. Because what's in the middle of, like if you think about it, Brandy, these are two bookends. God's fire comes out, consumes an offering, and everyone rejoices. Here God's fire comes out, consumes an offering, and people get toasted. What's the only difference? Disobedience in the middle. Not doing what God told them to do. So again, Kipi, when you're reading the Bible and you're not looking at your chapter and verse notations, you're going to go, wow, right here in a span of six verses, two times fire has come out from God's presence, simplifying his holiness, simplifying his greatness, his majesty, his power. And in the first one it was rejoiced. And in the second one, not so much. And the thing in the middle, disobedience. So here let's keep going. Right worship requires reverence. So first we saw that right worship requires obedience. Secondly, right worship requires reverence. Take a look at verse three here. Moses said to Aaron, this is what the Lord spoke when he said. So who's speaking? Moses is speaking to Aaron on behalf of God himself. So this is Moses, prophet of God, speaking to Aaron, high priest of God, speaking the words of God. So this is definitely a thus saith the Lord kind of moment. Moses says in speaking for God, among those who approach me, I will be proved holy in the sight of all the people. I will be honored. And Aaron remained silent. So, Heather, let's let's take this the top of the verse. We'll get all the way to the bottom. So first, who's Moses? Moses is the prophet of God at this time, redeemer of Israel. Katie pulled everybody ten plagues. You know, Red Sea, Prince of Egypt, the whole thing. That's Moses, prophet of God, who is Aaron, high priest of God and his brother. These guys should have been on the same page as far as what God wanted for his people. Unfortunately, Aaron's sons are disobedient. And here Moses has to tell Aaron, among those who approach me, this is what the Lord says. Among those who approach me, I will be proved holy in the sight of all the people. Here's where I think the first key is, Jeff, to properly interpreting this passage. Among those who approach me, that could have been any of the priests, right? Their job was to minister in the tabernacle and ultimately in the temple. Among those who approach me, I will be proved holy. Now what does holy mean? Holy means to be set apart. Not just set apart in the sense of, I'm going to move this over here. No, I'm going to move this over here for the purpose of dedicating it for God. So being set apart is not like when you go through your socks and you separate them after the laundry day and you find the socks and mirror them back up. Ms. Cindy, specifically when we talk about being holy, it's setting apart for a distinct and righteous, sovereign and reverent purpose. Some of you have heard my analogy before, the guest towel, right? I grew up in a house, we had guest towels. My mama put out guest towels when people came over to visit, and my 13-year-old nasty teenager self was not allowed to dry his hands or his face on mama's guest towels. I took the old ratty, used to be used for cleaning rag towels, and hung them on a special rack in my closet to dry because I was not allowed to use the guest towels. Why? Because the guest towels were for more important people. My mother told me that outright. The guest towels are for more, whoops, important people. I.e. Mr. Don, not me. That's what my mama's saying. The guest towels are for more important people. The people who come over and mom wants to impress them with like the embroidered towels. You know what I'm saying? Like at Christmas they were embroidered with snowflakes and snowmen, and then in Easter there was like eggs and an empty tomb, and then sometime around 4th of July we had like super patriotic towels. You know, every time my parents had guests over, there was special towels. Kippy, those are set apart, not for the common everyday usage of the lower class like myself, but for the honored class that my parents were their guests. Well, that's a wonderful modern-day analogy for what holiness is. Things are set apart, no longer for earthly and worldly value, but for the value of someone who is greater for God. That's what it means. So he says here, among those who approach me, I will be proved the guest towel. And then look, I will be proved to who? Amanda, in the sight of all the people. So Kippy, when I look at what God is doing here, whilst God may have smited Nadab and Abihu, who is the real audience of who is God is trying to instruct? The entire nation. This is a corporate lesson poured out on the lives of two very unsatisfactory individuals. But make no mistake about it, Mr. Dates, this lesson for everybody, that's the theological term, right, everybody, right? I will be proved holy in the sight of all the people I will be honored. I will be the guest towel user, not the paper towel user. I will be the embroidered towel user, not the shop towel user. Those of you who have shop towels at home like working on your cars. Those are the everyday commoners. And then what's the final thing here? Aaron remained silent. Now, Chris, I got to say, as a father who has two sons, and I mean, I don't have two sons, but I do have three children, I don't know that I could do that. And I'm speaking very frankly. If you're, we're at church, right? You and me, we're at church. I'll go ahead and be Moses and you can be Aaron because your kids clearly don't know how to be obedient, so we'll go with you, right? I'm poking at you, Tyler. You're an amazing young man. But for this analogy, you're going to get roasted in a hot second. So, Chris, you and I are worshiping, and all of a sudden, Tucker and Tyler go off half-cocked and do something they're not supposed to do, fire from the presence of God Himself rolls down and toasts both of your boys. How are you feeling in this moment? I got to be honest. This sounds tough, right? Anybody who's a parent can admit this is tough, especially like at first, you might be like, oh my gosh, what just happened, right? At first, you're thinking, I don't know, is this like a freak thunderstorm? Did something weird and natural happen? And then, Chris, I say to you as your brother, hey, by the way, among those who approach me, I need to be treated more like a guest towel. Your boys are treating me like a paper towel, so poof, I'm done with them. And by the way, you don't get to say anything. Aaron remains completely silent, and his silence, I have to say, Mr. Stacey, is deafening in this passage. He just stands there silent. And, Ms. Brandy, if you want my opinion, why is he silent? I think he knows which rule his sons broke, because remember in the previous verse, it says contrary to my instructions, I think Aaron knows exactly what his boys did that was wrong, and he knows they deserve the punishment the Lord muted out, even though he's not happy about it, right? Has anybody ever been in a situation where you know the Lord is working and you're not super excited about how he's working? You know, can we admit that sometimes the Lord works in our lives in ways that are uncomfortable? Well, this to me is one of those instances. Here's the next point. Circumstances should not impact holiness. Let's look at verses four and five. So, Moses summoned Mishael and Elzaphan, I always get that one wrong, Mishael and Elzaphan, sons of Aaron's uncle Uziol, and said to them, Come here, carry your cousins outside the camp, away from the front of the sanctuary. So they came and carried them still in their tunics outside the camp, as Moses ordered. Now, here's what I think is interesting, Kim, and again, if you didn't read chapters eight and nine, you're probably likely to miss what just happened here. Look at who Moses gets to move the dead bodies. He summons Mishael and Elzaphan, son of Aaron's uncle Uziol. Now, why is that super important? Because, Mishaira, the two people who are summoned here in order to carry out the dead bodies are not priests. They did not just go through the week-long purification ritual in chapters eight and nine in order to be holy before the Lord, in order to serve God's people as priests. So, there's no defaming the holiness, the set-apartness of the priesthood by choosing these two jokers right here. They didn't just go through, Wes, everything we had to go through to be holy before God as priests. They're not in the line of Aaron, right? So they didn't just go through all this purification ritual. Why do I think that's important? Because, number one, we need the dead bodies gone from the Lord's presence, because if you look in the law, anyone who touches a dead body is immediately ceremonially unclean and cannot minister before the Lord. That's a huge part of correctly interpreting the Good Samaritan parable, is that if they mistake the body for dead, then they're choosing their ceremonial cleanliness. But Moses gets this, Jack. Moses gets this, and he chooses two people who will not have their ceremonial cleanliness stained by moving the dead bodies. I think that's super important. Because God, whilst he's muting out his justice, whilst he is teaching a lesson to his people, Jason, here comes the third lesson. Hey, by the way, you still need to be holy in my presence, so Aaron, you can't pick up your sons and go take them and mourn for them and go take them and bury them, but I'll take care of it for you, Dave. Actually, it would be Dave and Zach taking care of it for Chris in this analogy, because Tucker and Tyler are already toasty, right? So Dave and Zach, you're going to come and carry the boys out. Why? Because Chris, your holiness must remain intact. That's the big key that I think is overlooked in this passage. Who Moses chooses, I don't believe is accidental. I don't believe the word of God is filled with coincidences. I feel like it's filled with providences. God chooses his holy, sovereign, providences. And that's how things get done. So watch what happens. Carry your cousins outside of the camp, away from the sanctuary, Jason, away from the place of God's holiness. You take the dead thing and you move it away from the place of God's holiness. Then what happens? They carried them still in their tunics. Go back and read chapters 8 and 9. Those are special tunics given to the priests. Amanda, they're not taking the tunics back. Why? Because it's had a dead man in it. We're not taking it and making it holy again. We'll just make new tunics. And when you go back and read chapters 8 and 9 about how particular those tunics were and how amazingly crafted they were made, that's the loss for all Israel. All those artisans that made those super great, nice tunics, Miss Janie, now I need you to make two more. Why? Because this lack of holiness in the priesthood has now cost all of Israel two holy priest tunics. All right? So now we keep going forward. What's next? Emotions should also never come before holiness. Here's verses 6 and 7. Then Moses said to Aaron and his sons Eleazar and Ithamar. So stop. Before I read what Moses said, who are these? This is the father and brothers of the two guys who just got roasted. Moses said to Aaron and his sons Eleazar and Ithamar. These are the brothers of Nadab and Abihu. Do not let your hair become unkempt and do not tear your clothes or you will die before the Lord or you will die and the Lord will be angry with the whole community. But your relatives, all the Israelites may mourn for those the Lord has destroyed by fire. Do not leave the entrance of the tent of meeting or you will die because the Lord's anointing oil is on you. So they did as Moses said. Now Miss Lisa again, this feels kind of weird. Like let's just admit it. If you didn't go back and read chapters 8 and 9, that's not what you're reading. That's weird. Why is Moses the prophet of God, Mr. Charles, telling you it is inappropriate for you to mourn the death of your sons? Well, I believe the key again is in 8 and 9, the amount of things that they had to go through in order to be made holy, in order to be the priests. And then Miss Heather, we've got to ask, why does Israel need priests? Because they need people to do the sacrificial system and all the laws that God put in place. What happens if all the priests get defiled? There is no worship in the tabernacle. No one is ceremonially clean to go in and do the job. So Mr. Jack, what's on the line here? The entire priesthood of Israel is on the line. Israel being able to burn offerings and fellowship offerings and wave offerings. I'm telling you, it's all there in 8 and 9. It's all spelled out for you. The kinds of offerings, the way they're to be done. It's going to be a week long ceremony for Aaron and his sons to be considered holy before the Lord. And he told them then, Amanda, if you jump outside of the tentative meeting at any time during this week, you will be unholy and you will no longer be able to serve as a priest. So what is Moses really defending here? He's defending the holiness of the priesthood and he's telling them, Joe, I'm super sorry that your boys decided to step on what God said. And I'm super sorry that God decided to claim their lives. But you have a job to do and you cannot allow your holiness to be affected by your emotions. Now that's a tough lesson, but I will say this. Chip, if I wanted to bring it into modern day times, I don't believe your emotional state should justify sin. Right? I'm angry, so I'm going to sin. I'm lonely, so I'm going to sin. I'm happy, so I'm going to sin. Right? Ms. Linda, when I put it in that context, of course it makes sense. We could never use our temporary emotions to justify sinful choices. Well, that's what Moses is trying to tell Aaron. You cannot mourn your sons, but this is what I'm going to do for you, S. All of Israel is going to mourn the loss of its priests. And notice the focus. Moses brings it back to the corporate relationship with God, not just Nadab and Abihu. He says, all the Israelites, look at there in the middle of that third line, all the Israelites may mourn for those the Lord has destroyed. But you cannot leave the tent of meeting because the Lord's anointing oil is on you. Ms. Stacey, super important that you don't defile the holiness that we just went through for you to have because your holiness is what ministers to everybody else in Israel. It's not just about you. It's what Moses is saying. Ms. Kippe, there's something greater than you that depends on your holiness in order to minister. So don't leave the tent of meeting or you will die. Why? Because the Lord's anointing oil is on you. I am firmly and solely convinced that if we do a better job of teaching the modern day Christian church what it truly means to live by the Spirit, you'll have a whole lot less sermons on avoiding sin. Why? Because when I realize I carry the Holy Spirit with me into every sin I do, all of a sudden the choice for sin makes a lot worse. David, with the Holy Spirit within you, indwelt within your heart, and the sovereign omniscient God, it's not like you can lie to the Holy Spirit about the sin you're in. He was there. He saw it. First person. With the Holy Spirit in you, you make Him the unwilling participant in every sin you're in. If we just taught more people to respect the holiness of God, you'd have to teach a whole lot less people to deny the temptation of sin. You can't have both. They're equal, or not equal, but they are opposite in their value. The more you live for the Spirit, the more you are moved away from sin. The more you live according to sin, the less you are obedient to the Spirit. They're connected, right? Here, Moses is pointing out, Aaron, you can't mourn for your sons right now. Jeff, the rest of the nation will mourn your boys. But we just went through all of this to make you holy before the God, because that whole nation needs you to serve as a priest, so it's time to put on your big boy pants and stay holy before the Lord. And that's what I really think this story is about. We get off on the fire. We get distracted by the one momentary example. But, Ms. Linda, that's not the only thing this story has to teach us. That's just the first domino of chapter 10. The unauthorized fire and God's response sets in motion the rest of this. Watch this. Right worship requires clear discernment, verses 8 through 11. Right worship requires clear discernment. Then the Lord said to Aaron, so here's another, God speaking directly to the father who just lost two sons. You and your sons are not to drink wine or other fermented drink whenever you go into the tent of meeting or you will die. This is a lasting ordinance for the generations to come so that Long press, highlight, circle, underline, draw a square, grab a crayon, do something. So that, right here in the middle of this section, vitally important. So that you can distinguish between the holy and the common, between the unclean and the clean. And so you can teach the Israelite all the decrees the Lord has been given through Moses. Now, these particular three verses right here are also hotly debated among scholars. I'm going to give you what I think it is and I'm going to give you the alternate also. Here, God speaks directly to Aaron. Who is Aaron? The high priest. He's in charge of all the priests of Israel. His instructions very clear. Not allowed to drink wine or other fermented drink whenever you go into the tent of meeting. So for those who hold the position that all alcohol is sin, this is a major key passage. This is a big verse to use because he says, listen, you're not allowed to do that any time you come near the tent of meeting. And then they'll bring it into the New Testament and they'll say, since we are now all temples and we carry the Holy Spirit, we're always, we're the tent of meeting. So therefore, Christians should not drink. That's how that connection is made. Right? In my opinion, you're taking a jump that doesn't need to be there because the priests didn't live in the tent of meeting every day like we do today. So it's not a one to one direct historical reference. What I will say you can't get away from is those who minister should be sober when they do it. That I can't, Ms. Heather, I can't walk away from that. You and your sons are not to drink other fermented drink whenever you go into the tent of meeting. This is a last sitting ordinance. Why? So that. Ms. Angie, the biggest two words in this whole chapter. So that. Why? So that you can distinguish between the holy and the common, the unclean and the clean. So what do I think Nadab and Abai who did wrong? Well, the Bible is not explicitly clear, but I think this section here gives us two clues. Number one, it is highly possible, I would even say textually probable, that they were in some way inebriated when they started burning the fire in verse one. Because I got to ask myself, Ms. Brandy, why does the Lord just close the door here so hard about distinguishing between an unclean and the cause for that distinguishing unclean and clean being drinking fermented drink? The only textual reason I can have is this eight through eleven is somehow related to one through seven. Somehow related to the actions they had before it. So it is very possible that Nadab and Abai who were anywhere from tipsy to full on lit when they decided to minister before the Lord. Now, yes, we find that funny today. Why? Because we would never do that. We, of course, being the perfect church, the only church in the world where we have no sinners, I get it, all of you watching online, welcome to the perfect church. There is no sin in this, I am sure. But how many of us, let's be honest here, how many of us would ever expect to walk in a church and see a preacher preaching drunk? No, never. Why? Because number one, I like my job and don't want to get fired. Let's be honest. Number two, I have way too much respect for this job right here to disrespect it by having anything other than the clear mind who hopefully is being guided by the Spirit while delivering the Spirit's words. I have a lot of respect for this job, this right here. So it is very possible that Nadab and Abai who didn't. And they were maybe a little bit too communion before church. The second thing that is, I believe, very textually possible is because of their some form of inebriation, Mr. Don, they forgot the difference between that which is holy and that which is unholy. Now, actually, I think we do that an awful lot today. We mix the holy and the common way too much. We mix the unholy and the righteous way too much. We are still making the same mistake. The difference is, Joe, we are not drunk. We can't even blame it on the beer. We can't even blame it on what I had to drink because in my right mind I still lack the distinguishing between the holy and the common. So what do I think? How do I think this plays in? I do believe Nadab and Abai who were in some form of intoxicated because it is the only reason I can have for why God such the door so hard. And second, the cause is because they were intoxicated, they were unable to distinguish between the holy and the common. So now let's go back to the actions that they did. What did they do? They took a sensor. They took a test. They took a test. They took a sensor. They put in fire. They put in incense and then they burned it before the Lord. Four separate actions. Go back and read chapters eight and nine. Only one of those four actions was specifically or two of them really specifically designed. One was where they were to get the fire from. The second was the type of incense used. I can't tell you any further, Ms. Joan, which one they did wrong. They could have done both wrong or they did one of them wrong. Either they pulled the fire from the wrong location and it was not the holy fire that God intended. They specifically told them to take the coals from a specific place or it also said that the specific brand of perfume was only ever to be used for the priesthood. Now that perfume also meant incense. Okay, you're flipping with me, Zoe. If that also meant incense, then they did one of those two things wrong. Either way, Amanda, they're disobedient. Either way, because they decided to be a little too familiar and I say that loosely, I have a lot of respect for this job up here, anybody that does it. I couldn't imagine being so flippant with the job of ministry that I was cool being inebriated or any way intoxicated while doing the job. But clearly at the outset of the priesthood, this Leviticus 10, this is like what? Second book of the Bible? No, third book. Genesis, Exodus, third book of the Bible. We haven't even made it anywhere yet, Kippee. But you know what God's saying? He's saying, listen, those who minister before me, you're going to have enough respect for me. You're going to come in the door holy. Look at verses 8 and 9. It was all about preparing the priesthood to be holy and minister before the Lord. So what do I think Nadab and Abai who did here wrong? I think they didn't respect the presence of God and they came in slightly or severely intoxicated. And two, their intoxication led to a degradation of their ability to distinguish between the holy and the common. And then they ministered before the Lord in a way that Randy God said, no, no, you don't do it that way. And poof, you're out. Who is the recipient of the lesson? All Israel. That's the other key that you need to understand in this passage. All Israel is being taught a lesson. How do I know that? Because all Israel was to bear witness. All Israel mourned the loss of Nadab and Abai who? And this instruction here is for all the priests who would ever come beyond Aaron. The focus of the passage should be interpreted what is all Israel interpreting. Not only what did Nadab and Abai do that was wrong. It's what they did that was wrong to teach everybody else. So let me bring it forward. How do I bring this to you today? Here's your takeaway. While we no longer need the Old Testament sacrificial system, in Christ we are all priests before God. Take a look at 1 Peter 2, verse 9. We too must also rightly discern between the holy and common. Circumstances and emotion are not acceptable reasons for a lack of holiness in our lives today. That's how I would bring this forward. Dave, how do I live this super kind of weird story? This is my takeaway. As we go out of here today, we walk out into a culture that sin is celebrated. We walk out into a world not governed by true biblical holiness, but governed by fleshly sinful selfishness. And that requires a distinguishing between the holy and the common. Now notice it does say holy and common, not holy and unholy. Hopefully you can distinguish between holy and unholy. Hopefully, right? We're just talking between the holy and the common. There's another level we're called to live as the body of Christ. Living like everybody else is not good enough for the God who's better than everything else. Let me say that again. Living like everybody else is not good enough when you're living for the King who's better than everything else. God has called us to live holy, set apart lives, where you are capable of distinguishing between that which is holy and that which is merely common. That's the lesson, in my opinion, of Nadab and Abihu. Spiritual discernment is everything in the life of the believer.