We are beginning a brand new series. For the next four weeks, we are going to be studying the topic of Worthless Worship. Worthless Worship. And know that it's not a misnomer. Miss Tiff, I titled it that way on purpose. Because as you can see the small red line underneath of it, Worship God Rejects. Now, this may sound foreign to some of you. We have an idea in our culture that we can worship God however we choose. That some of us like traditional hymnal music. Some of us like guitar music. Some of us like to worship in our cars when we can sing full blast out loud and nobody knows whether it's in tune or not. Some of us love worship in different ways. So Ken, we can be lulled accidentally into the idea that we get to pick how to worship God. And Anita, on one point I would say, well we do pick the songs that we as a congregation sing. The worship team has to rehearse those songs. Miss Stacy, worship has to transcend beyond just the musical. Worship has to transcend beyond the taking of communion. Worship has to transcend beyond the giving of tithes and offerings. Worship has to transcend to be something that we as a total unit human being, the total mass of my unit human being being slightly larger than say Mr. Tyler's mass of human being, right, I'll admit I'm a slightly larger mass individual than you. But when we look at the Bible's portrait of how God's people worshiped him, there are multiple instances in the scriptures where God rejected the worship of his people. So that brings me to the key thought that we have here and that's this. Not all worship offered to God is accepted by him. Now this may be a brand new idea to some of you and that's okay. For the next four weeks we're going to look at four different biblical examples of where God said, no, Megan you can't do it that way. Mr. Pete, I'm sorry, I hear what you're trying to do, but no, you can't bring it to me that way. So not all worship offered to God is accepted by him. This morning's message is entitled, Worship Worthless Worship. That's going to be a tongue twister. Leftovers. So our key text this morning is going to come from the book of Genesis chapter four, the verse seven verses. Genesis chapter four, verses one through seven. So if you brought your Bible, if you want to turn or tap with me, if you're watching online and maybe you have a Bible right next to your phone, if you want to go ahead and turn and open up to Genesis chapter four, the first seven verses, the first thing I want to do is read it to you. Because, Michelle B, it's only seven verses. I think you and I, we can handle seven. Everybody else take five. This is just for me and Michelle B right here. Adam loved his wife Eve and she became pregnant and gave birth to Cain. She said, with the help of the Lord I have brought forth a man. Later she gave birth to his brother Abel. Now Abel kept flocks and Cain worked the soil. In the course of time, Cain brought some of the fruits of the soil as an offering to the Lord. And Abel also brought an offering, fat portions from some of the first born of his flock. The Lord looked with favor on Abel and on his offering, but on Cain and his offering he did not look with favor. So Cain was very angry and his face was downcast. Then the Lord said to Cain, why are you so angry? Why is your face downcast? If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? But if you do not do what is right, sin is crouching at your door. It desires to have you, but you must rule over it. So now what I want to do is I want to go back through this passage, E7 verses, Jeff. Let's kind of open it up a little bit. Let's give some air space and let's break it down. So here's the first point I'd like to make this morning. Worship is a personal act of devotion. Mr. Jack, when we talk about worship, we need to take aside music. We need to take aside money. We need to take aside even church. Worship in its base principle is a personal act of devotion. So let's look at our first two verses here. First, Adam made love to his wife Eve. She became pregnant and gave birth to Cain. So those of you who were with us last year when we did our big annual walk through the Bible, where are we in the Bible story? In the beginning, I was hoping somebody was going to say it, right? We're in the beginning. We're what I call the first family. Adam being the first husband, Eve being the first wife together, them being the first parents. Anita, we're at the very beginning of the Bible story. Adam and Eve, and they have their first son, Cain. And then Eve says this, with the help of the Lord, I have brought forth a man. Later, she gave birth to his brother Abel. So now we have Adam, Eve, Cain, Abel. Now, first thing I need to tell you is this. The Bible is theological history, right? We talked a lot about this last year. The Bible is theological history. It gives us the details necessary to tell us what it's supposed to tell us about God. Just because at this point, Cain and Abel are the only mentioned children does not mean they're the only children. Because everybody wants to know, hey, where did Cain's wife come from? Later, Cain's going to go somewhere. He's going to marry a wife. And furthermore, why is he afraid of all the people who are going to kill him later? Because, yeah, right? Hollering in the back row, you saw that, Kim, right? Where is all the people that Cain is supposed to be afraid of? Because the Bible is theological history. It's telling us this story to teach us a theological lesson about God. But it's not stopping to say, Megan, on Tuesday all of this happened, and then on Wednesday all of that happened, and on Thursday all of that happened. The Bible is kind of like if you were ever watching, anybody ever watch like an old VHS cassette, and you fast forward through the parts of the movie you don't like? I do that. I do that all the time. I call it the Bill version of a movie. I can take a two and a half hour movie and watch it in 45 minutes. Because all the parts that I'm bored of, and I could repeat all of the lines because I've seen it so many times, I'm like, yeah, and then he goes to the castle, and then there's a sword fight, yeah, and then he rescues the gal. Okay, dragons. All right. You know? I'll fast forward to the parts that are relevant to me, right? Like the parts that I want to watch. Well, the Bible in the same way, Miss Ilona, God fast forwards our attention and brings our attention to the components he needs us to bring it to. So here, what's the main component? Number one, we know who Cain and Abel's parents are, Adam and Eve. The next thing we see here at the very end of your screen here, now Abel kept flocks and Cain worked the soil. Now, first and foremost, I'm going to go ahead and refer to Cain as the farmer and Abel as the shepherd, right? They are two different individuals. They have two different jobs. What's interesting about this passage is Cain, being the firstborn son, takes over the role of his father, the job of his dad. Adam, when was cast out of the garden, was placed in charge of having to till the soil in order to eat, in order to have food for his family. Pre-sin, Adam was placed in charge of the garden to keep it. So Cain takes over his father's role. Now, I know, Joe, based on what we know of the scriptures, we tend to shade towards Abel, right? Because we like shepherds, right? Shepherds are like a big kind of character in the Bible. We like talking about shepherds. Jesus is the good shepherd. Let's not read too much into the difference in their functions just yet, the difference in their jobs. But when we see that they bring different offerings, we have an understanding of why. They're both bringing in and of themselves, Ms. Margarita. They're both bringing who they are as individuals, something that is personal to them. Here's the next point I want to make. Worship is a normal act of life. Ms. Erin, worship ought to be a normal, everyday act of life. Let's take a look at, this is a super long text, right? It's going to take forever to read. Genesis 4, verse 3, part A. In the course of time. Now, Mr. Don, I've got to stop on this phrase because it feels like we just want to get somewhere, right? In the course of time, and then we get to the verb. We want to get to the action. We want to get to what is our narrative character doing. But there's something very important about this. In English, it reads, in the course of time. But Amanda, in the Hebrew, it actually reads, out of the passage of time gave birth. Now, I think that's really important, and here's why. Out of the normal, everyday, day by day, minute by minute, second by second, Apple Watch tracking, wearing your Fitbit, out of the normal passage of time, gave birth, the next action. Now, I know that the next action happens to be the bringing of worship to the Lord. So, Ms. Heather, if I put all of that together, it's not just, oh yeah, in the course of time, and Cain and Abel might have maybe at this one time, maybe given an offering to God. No, what it really means is, out of the normal passage of time, gave birth, this next action, or Liam worship. Out of the normal passage of time, in Cain and Abel's life, they worshiped God. That tells me worship was a regular act of life for the first family. Now, why do I think that's important? Well, Shane, who is Adam and Eve? Very first man, very first woman, very first husband, very first wife. Then we have a disobedience problem. What happens? Adam and Eve are ejected from God's perfect garden at Eden. But interestingly enough, Chris, they still taught their children to worship the Lord. That's the detail I don't want you to miss. Worship for Cain and Abel is a normal, out of the normal passage of time, gave birth to worship. Meaning, Miss Stacey, even after being booted from the Garden of Eden, Cain and Abel learned to worship the Lord from quite literally the only other people on the planet who knew how to do it, Adam and Eve. That's why I think this, in the course of time, Isaiah, it feels like an additive, right? Anybody love Oreos? My son and I, we are huge Oreo fans, right? Micah, you love Oreos? Exactly. We are passionate about two things in our house. Jesus, number one, and Oreos has to be number two. But doesn't it feel sometimes like eating the cookies, just getting to the cream? Does anybody do that? Eating the cookies, just getting to the cream. Like, let me just get through, Abel, you're going, I know what I'm having for dessert after lunch. Pastor Bill's talking Oreos and it's too early for food. Out of the normal passage of time came worship. Meaning, Ms. Kim, worship was a normal act of life for Cain and Abel. Not only that, but an instructed act. They learned from their parents to worship God. Next, worship should look different. This is going to be 4-3-B, meaning the latter half of verse 3, and then the beginning of verse 4. Cain brought some of the fruits of the soil as an offering to the Lord, and Abel also brought an offering, fat portions from some of the firstborn of his flock. Ms. Anita, they did not bring the same thing. Why? Think about the why here. What has Scripture already told us about these two men, these two young men? What have we already learned about them that would explain why they bring different offerings to the Lord? Because they're bringing in and of themselves, in and of their labor. They're bringing in of what they do. If Rob was going to bring an offering to the Lord, he is a chief in the U.S. Coast Guard, you could bring a life-reserver. Or that big crane thing that's on the back of your boat that's always in the picture. I have no idea what that crane is, but it looks really cool every time you post a selfie and you're out on the water. Or no, you took the picture because you're not allowed to use the phone on the water because that's bad. I can't get you in trouble. You post a selfie after you get back to the dock. I get that. Just in case any other coasties are in the room, we're not breaking rules. Worship looks different because they are different. The reason I think this is important is, Jeff, worship's kind of hypocritical when you try to do it like someone else. If you're trying to worship like Chris, then you're not being genuine to you. You're being genuine to Chris. Now, in our church, that doesn't seem to be a very big problem, but I'll tell you, I have worked in churches. One of the churches I have worked at, where the pastor was very demonstratively worshipable. I was not the head, teach them every week pastor. I was the worship pastor. Once the music was done, I went and sat down and waited for my boss to tell me he wanted to do an altar call. Then I got to come back up and work again. But he was very demonstrative in his worship. He was very big and bold and hands raised and very loud and out in the open. And it was amazing how people began to take on that example. He began to follow because they're like, well, if pastor worships that way, and obviously he has the bat phone and he's closer to Jesus, then I'll be better at worship if I worship like him. I think there's a flaw in that logic, which is I'm not him. So to worship like him is to actually ignore worshiping like me, worshiping the way God has made me. Where, you know, Mr. Pete, what God has made him is I loan a worshiping the way God has made her. There should be a genuine attitude of authenticity when we come to worship. Now, I will say as a guitar player and as a worship leader, I'm pretty wide out person, right? I'm pretty out there. I'm pretty demonstrative. I have been told by more than one church on more than one thing that I'm just too showy. And I need to dial it back because I'm too loud. And I'm like, well, too loud is the sound guy's job. You can yell at Ian, but Ian's sitting back here. No, you can't. But you know what I found out, Miss Stacy? When I try to dial it back, I am more concerned about what other people think than I am about giving God my 110 percent. I'm going to give God my 110 percent. And if you notice, most of the time we worship, I have my eyes closed because I have to ignore the rest of you. No offense. But it's hard to ignore the rest of you if I don't close my eyes because the ADHD looks off the page and sees all the pretty faces. And I'm like, oh, look, Anita got her hair done this week. And, oh, Erin, that's a blast. I haven't seen that before. And before you know it, I just missed the mark and Ken's wondering how I'm leading worship because I'm not paying attention to my God. I'm paying attention to all of you. Worth it. Worth it. Here we go. Worship needs to have a shred of individual authenticity for it to be genuine. In our example here, the offerings that are brought to the Lord are different because Cain and Abel are different. If we were all to bring the same thing. Now, Mr. Don, let's take the obvious elephant in the room. When we give to the Lord of our tithes and offerings, don't we all give money? Yes. But isn't money really just the byproduct of that which you do? Right? So when Mr. Don goes to work for the county and he does his job and Mr. Chris goes to work for the United States Army and he does his job, and Mr. West goes to work down at the shipyard and he does his job, they are doing three different things. It just happens that in our culture today, the fruit of your labors come monetarily first, and then you go and you buy your groceries and everything with it. But still, the offering that Mr. Don put in this plate is the byproduct of his job at the county. The offering that Mr. Chris put in the plate is the byproduct of his job in the army and West's his job at the shipyard. We are still giving of our authentic selves. We just happen to pass it through the means of currency. Don't ignore the authenticity of worship and be like, oh, well, it's just money. God doesn't care. No, it's the byproduct of who you are. It was totally cool to laugh, bro. All good. No, I love you, too. So worship needs to look different. Here's the next one. There is such a thing as unacceptable worship. Now, this is going to sting a little bit, but trust me, just let me get to my point and hopefully we'll make this very clear. Genesis, Chapter four, verses four B and five. The Lord looked with favor on Abel and his offering, but on Cain and his offering, he did not look with favor. Isaiah, that statement is made clear. It's not a question. It's not a suggestion. It's a description of the Lord's reaction to worship by two individual people. Ashley, the first thing I want you to notice is who is the ultimate determiner of the authenticity of worship. It is not us as human beings. The scripture very clear. The Lord looked. So it is not my job to judge the worship that Liam brings to his Savior. It is not my job to judge the worship that Isaiah brings to his Savior. Why? Because they're not bringing it to me. Hopefully you're not bringing it, right? You're not bringing the worship, oh, go and pastor Bill, here's your offering. No, we give this to the Lord. Therefore, if you're bringing it to the Lord, he's the only one that has the right to make that determination. But here's the rub. Ms. Margo, the Lord's determination is always right. The Lord does not fail. He is always truth. He is always justice. So Kim, when the Lord makes a determination, it's not up for us to judge, right? So the Lord looked with favor on Abel and his offering, but on Cain and his offering, he did not look with favor. When I get to the end of my message, I will explain the why behind the statement. Right now, Ms. Amanda, I want to make it very clear. One offering was accepted and one was rejected. And how do I know it was rejected? Because I can now, the very next sentence shows me Cain's response. Cain was very angry and his face was downcast. Ms. Kim, if you and Ms. Andrea both brought offerings to the Lord, and Ms. Andrea's offering was beautiful and acceptable to God, and God told you, Kim, you should try again. Can you not see how that would hurt emotionally? Like, let's not disassociate. Cain is a human being. That means he has an emotion. He has a will. He has an intellect. He has a response to the stimuli that he is given. Cain is both angry and downcast. I think the subtext there is also probably a little jealous, right? God, how come you like Ms. Andrea but you don't like me? God, how come she can bring you an offering and you think it's great, but you look at me and you're like, bless your heart. Kim, you should try again. Kim, you should bring some difference. Two things I want you to see here. Number one, Cain brought an unacceptable offering to the Lord. That in and of itself, Ms. Stacey, means there's a wrong way to worship. Ooh, that's tough. I know. I know we just transitioned from like Joshua in history to topically talking about worship. But Ms. Stacey, that verse tells me there is such a thing as a wrong way to worship. And wrong not because I don't like it. Wrong not because Mr. Chris and I have differences of opinions on worship music. Not because Mr. Pete and I like to himnologically break down every song we bring to the church. No. Who made the differentiation between Cain and Abel's offerings? The boss did. That one's the boss. That one's above my pay grade. It is not my job to decide whether what you bring to the Lord is acceptable to him or not. It is my job, however, to respond like Cain when he says, oh, well, Ms. Kim, you're going to have to try again. You should be more like your sister. Right? That's tough, but that's exactly what happens to Cain. So now we move forward again. Sin impedes intimate worship. Genesis chapter 4 verses 6 through 7. Then the Lord said to Cain, why are you angry? Why is your face downcast? Now look at this. If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? Stop. Now I just learned something else, Mr. Rob. Not only does the Lord in his sovereign will make a determination between the offerings of Cain and Abel, but now the Lord has also told us that whatever Cain did was wrong. So not only does the Lord reject his worship, but something about the worship of Cain is wrong because the Lord's going, dude, why are you so upset? Like, if you would just follow the rules, New International Bill version, Brandy, right? Hey, Brandy, it's not my fault your worship isn't right. Maybe you should be more like your sister Andrea, right? If you would just follow the rules, will your offering not be accepted? But if you do not do what is right, which is actually what Cain did, by the way, not doing what is right, sin is crouching at your door. It desires to have you, but you must rule over it. Right here, Ms. Margarita, I have a juxtaposition between the rejection of Cain's sin and the rejection of Cain's offering and the correlation of sin crouching at his door. I don't think this is an accident, Mr. Chris. I can tell you from my personal experience, it's really hard to chase after sin on Saturday and Jesus on Sunday. Right? When you sell your heart into sin on Saturday night with whatever flavor that looks like for you, whatever stew you're cooking up, and you're chasing sin on Saturday, and then you come into Sunday morning trying to press into worship and get more of the Spirit, it's really hard to have that divided heart. Now, does that mean that God does not accept every sinner? He does. God in His love looks at your, God in His love knew about your sin on Saturday, on Thursday, before you decided to go there and still loves you on Sunday morning. But it's really hard to have that divided heart. Sin may be crouching at your door, but God says, listen, you need to be the master of it, not it the master of you. So God is making a correlation here that something about Cain's action, Megan, something about the wrongness of Cain's offering is being driven by sin in his life. You tracking with me so far? Something about the wrongness of Cain's worship is being driven by the sin in his life. So here's the big question, right? Let's go forward. Here's the big question. What was Cain's sin? Cain brought, and I've put it in caps here to give you an accentuation of it, Cain brought some of the fruits of the soil as an offering to the Lord, and Abel also brought an offering, fat portions of some of the firstborn of his flock. So let me dispense with the incorrect reading and then I'll give you the real one. Devin, too many people read this story and they automatically think that God rejected Cain's offering because it wasn't blood. Abel brought blood, right? He shed the blood of his sheep in order to bring the fat portions. We know that God takes sin offerings, so therefore God rejects Cain's offering because it's not blood. Whilst that sounds super preachy, it's actually wrong. And I'll give you two reasons. Number one, nothing in this passage talked about a sin offering. Nothing in this passage requires a blood sacrifice. Second, if you go to the law, there are grain offerings. There are wine offerings. God accepts the offerings of earth-based things, not just blood. So in order to force a blood reading into this passage, Rob, you have to bring in outside knowledge and bend it over backwards. So Cain's offering is not rejected because he brought fruits. And that's why I highlighted that some of the fruits. Now again, we have to understand we read the Bible in English, right? Well, I read the Bible in English. I don't know, some of you may be bilingual that I don't know about. But I read the Bible in English. But did Moses write Genesis in English? No. No. What language did Moses write Genesis in? Hebrew. Right. Hebrew. Well, Aramaic comes in at the later half of the Old Testament. This is written in Hebrew. So I've got to understand, if I want to truly understand the meaning of a word that the Holy Spirit has inspired into his text, I also have to be able to look at the Hebrew word. And that's where that word, some, comes in. The difference between Cain and Abel's offerings is not blood versus grain. It is priority versus leftovers, which is why I titled this message Leftovers. That some of the fruits in the Hebrew, as Ms. Charles implies, Cain kept the best for himself and gave God out of what was left, the leftovers. Cain gave God some of the leftovers. Whereas Abel is clearly described as giving the fat portions, which is the best of, the first born, the first of. Right? So say this another way. Abel gave the Lord his first and best. Cain kept the best and gave to God from the rest. Cain gave God leftovers. Abel gave God first takes. That is the difference between Cain's offering and Abel's offering. Has nothing to do with blood. Has nothing to do with the shepherd character shedding blood for... Yeah, does all that tie in? Sure, it could. But Ms. Heather, you got to be real careful not to use a New Testament lens when interpreting an Old Testament passage because this passage came first chronologically. This passage comes first in God's special revelation of who he is as a creator and as a savior. Abel gave God from the fat portions, which is the best of the animal, from the first born, the first of. Abel's description is first and best. Cain's description is to keep the best for himself and dole out to God from whatever the leftovers were. That's the difference in this story. So what's our takeaway? God desires our worship, but that does not mean he will accept anything we give him. He desires to be first in our hearts, lives, and in our worship. God does not want our leftovers. He wants our firsts, our bests. He wants to be number one in our hearts and therefore number one in every action that comes out of our heart. He wants to be first in our day, in his word, and in prayer. He wants to be first in our Sunday, coming and worshiping the first of our week. He also wants to be first in your giving. Like, I'm not going to back down from that one either. We're not going to talk about prayer. We're not going to talk about the word. And also not going to talk about communion, talk about giving of the Lord and our finances. God wants to be first and best because he wants the number one seat in your heart. And as my mentor would always say, be really careful. You can't have two number ones. You can't. It's mathematically impossible, Sam. You can't have two number ones. You cannot have two equal and competing priority ones. One will always win out. Now, you could try real hard to hold those two number ones in balance, but Ken, when push comes to shove, you'll make a choice. And then, whoop, and then they'll really be the one. So I just want you to find the whoop moment in your life. That's where you need Jesus. Find your whoop, and that's Jesus. God wants to be first in every aspect of your life. Here's a tough one. Ashley, Jeff, since you're seated right here and I can almost reach you. God wants to be first in your marriage. If you consider that reality, that God wants to be first even in the relationship between a husband and wife. God wants to be first in your relationship with your children. God wants to be first in your relationship with your church family. God wants to be first in your fill in the blank with whatever. That's one of the ways in which we can offer worthless worship to God.