So this is week two of this new teaching series. We're calling it Worthless Worship. And the point that I want to get across, here's the key thought in this series. Not all worship offered to God is accepted by Him. So let me say that again. Not all worship offered to God is accepted by Him. In our church today, we have pretty much equated worship with music. And I love the fact that when Mr. Rob was doing his teaching this morning, he pointed out that we worship God in multiple ways. We worship God in prayer. We worship God in giving. We worship God in song. We also worship God in the studying of His Word. However, one thing that remains true from the time of the Bible to today is, Miss Tiff, not all worship offered to God is accepted by Him. In fact, there are multiple instances in the Holy Scriptures where God's people offered Him worship, and Will, he rejected it. He said, no, I'm not going to accept worship given to me like that. Last week we kicked off the series by looking at Cain and Abel, the firstborn children of the first family. They both offered worship. One was accepted. One was rejected. This week our message is entitled Worthless Worship Selfish. Not sure if you've ever considered the reality that you could worship in a selfish manner, but that's what we're going to explore this morning. So, Jeff, if you brought your Bible with you, you want to turn or tap to Exodus chapter 32. We're going to examine the first eight verses of Exodus 32. While you turn there, let's go ahead and just review our biblical history. Rob, if we're in Exodus 32, what does that tell me about the biblical story? Well, that tells me that the time of the patriarchs has passed, the story of Joseph, that amazing narrative that the dreamer has passed, the story of Moses is now ongoing. Moses has redeemed the children of Israel from Egypt, and then they wander for 40 years in the wilderness because of some disobedience problems. This story that we're going to examine today takes place, Chip, during the wilderness wandering period. Now, there's one really important event that I wasn't able to really focus on when we did our annual walk through the Bible last year, and Stacey, it's during the wilderness wandering period that the Lord gives the instructions and they build the tabernacle and they install the priesthood. Both of those things happened during that wilderness wandering period. Now, David, we didn't get a chance to really touch on it last year because we were trying to get through the whole Bible in one year. This story takes place, and Ms. Ilona, that's why I mention this. The wilderness wandering period is really divided into two thematic sections. The first section is them getting out of Egypt, getting all the instructions from God, and then the second section is them getting ready into the promised land. Wes, our story today takes place smack dab in between those two things. So I just want you to sort of, Ms. Brandy, keep that in your mind that God has already given all the instructions to Israel. They've built the tabernacle, or why they need to build the tabernacle, the instructions of how to build it, and Aaron himself has already been anointed the high priest of Israel. And then we get to Exodus chapter 32. So the first point I want to make this morning is that righteous worship requires a right focus. Righteous worship. And what do I mean by that? Ken, I mean worship that is fully righteous in God's eyes, not in our eyes. I'm sure all of you would agree that our amazingly awesome and good-looking bass player who hangs out on the end of the stage is always super righteous on Sundays. That's not the kind of worship I'm talking about. Thanks, Ken. The kind of worship I mean when I say righteous worship is the kind of worship, Zach, where God looks at you and sees your worship as righteous. So not totally righteous, but God's, not Bill and Ted righteous, but God's form of righteous. So all the children in the 90s just love that reference. So here we go. Exodus 32 verse 1a. So this is the first part of verse 1. This is what it says. When the people saw that Moses was so long in coming down from the mountain, they gathered around Aaron. Now, Jeff, I realize this is only part of verse 1, but this is a big part because what this sentence, fragment says to me here is this is the causal factor for everything that comes after it. Mr. Pete, this is the first cause that begins this horrible moment that we're going to go down. And those of you who are familiar with this story, just hold on. Hopefully I can give you something you've never heard from it before. But when the people saw that Moses was so long in coming down from the mountain. So quiz question number one, which mountain? Mount Sinai, that's right. And what is Moses doing at the top of Mount Sinai? He's praying, he's worshipping, and he's receiving from the Lord. So he is at this moment in biblical history, he is the God appointed leader of the Israelites. He's led them out of Egypt. He's now at the top of Mount Sinai receiving the law from God. So the first question is, Maeve, is Moses taking a break? No. Moses is doing his job. He is doing exactly what the Lord has placed him to do. But Jeff, notice that while Moses is doing exactly what God has made him to do, the people get bored. But the people saw when Moses was so long, literally, Mr. Don, so much time. When Moses was so much time in coming down from the mountain, they gathered around Aaron. So first thing I want you to realize, Moses is doing everything he's supposed to do. Mr. Jack, second thing I want you to realize, the people get bored. The people get bored waiting for Moses. And out of that boredom, out of that, yeah, I'm just not really sure I'm down for waiting for him anymore. Now, several of you may be asking, well, how long was he on the top? Somewhere between 30 and 40 days receiving the law from the Lord. So, Ms. Janie, it's not like he just took a quick Taco Bell run to the top of Mount Sinai. It's been a few days. It's been a few weeks. It's been about a month that Moses is on the top of Mount Sinai. Ms. Margarita, is there ever a time limit that you can place on waiting on the Lord? I would say no. Several of you are already nodding no. I agree with you. I don't think we can put a time limit on waiting on God. But Ms. Heather, I think we can admit there is a point at which our flesh gets tired of waiting on God. Not that we should, of course, and not us here. Travis and his jawline, they're amazingly righteous. And Joey, that mustache you got going on is also amazingly righteous. But there's a part of the rest of us, coast guard aside, there's a part of the rest of us that do get tired waiting on God. That do get a little bored in the prayer meeting. Of course, none of y'all, right? Because y'all are all super righteous, right? Nobody gets distracted during a prayer meeting. Nobody gets distracted during worship and wanders off and wonders, oh, it's Sunday. Chick-fil-A is closed. Where am I going to go for lunch? None of that, Amanda, doesn't happen to any of us. But every other church in the world where there are less righteous people than us, they do get distracted. And they do get a little bored. And that's the beginning of this story. That's why I didn't want you to skip over this first cause. Because, Megan, it's out of this boredom and out of this no longer desirous to wait on the Lord that everything else happens. So let's go forward. Next, lack of relationship leads to idolatry. A lack of relationship leads to idolatry. This is 32, 1b, or the second half of verse 1. This is the people speaking to Aaron, the newly anointed high priest of Israel. Come, make us gods who will go before us. As for this fellow Moses who brought us up out of Egypt, we don't even know what's happened to him. So now what are they saying? So, Mr. Bill, out of their boredom, out of their lack of desire to wait on the Lord, they now go to their newly anointed high priest. Now, in the absence of Moses, Katie, I will admit, Aaron's kind of the top dog, right? Aaron, even though anybody who watches The Prince of Egypt, Aaron was totally left out of the exchanges between Moses and Pharaoh. And I think that's really sad because I thought it was a cool picture of two brothers serving the Lord. You know, one who came from far off and one who was right there. There's an amazing symmetry in that story that The Prince of Egypt sort of missed as a cartoon. But Aaron was intimately involved in the Exodus story. Aaron was intimately involved in the Lord working through Moses, redeeming the children of Israel out of sin and slavery. And now Aaron has been anointed the new high priest of Israel. And Katie, now that people are bored, let's go ahead and go to Aaron. And what does he say? The people say, come, make us gods who will go before us as for this fellow Moses. Oh, you know, as for that joker, you know, that Moses dude, like to me, to me, he, Angie, he's almost been relegated to some dude status. Right? You know, like, have you ever met a some dude? This is what I mean by some dude. Miss Janie, have you ever been walking down Wal-Mart, walking down, I don't know, whatever your favorite Wal-Mart aisle is, right? So you're pushing your cart and you're walking down the aisle in Wal-Mart and all of a sudden you turn the corner and there is something amazing going on right there. Whether it's the pajama pants or it's the hair that's not been washed in three days or it's the you wore your house shoes. Like, there's something that makes you go, that's some dude right there. There's no relationship, but there's a recognition of who it is. That's what this is. Moses has been relegated to some dude on the Wal-Mart aisle as for this fellow Moses. Notice they are disassociating from their deliverer. Who is Moses? Moses is the chosen, called, anointed, powerful servant of God who has redeemed them from slavery, who put the staff in the Red Sea and the waters parted, who led them all the way out, who called down the ten plagues of Egypt. Come on man, this is not some dude. This is the appointed deliverer. But after a little bit of boredom, after a little bit of distraction, Michelle B., we forget who the important people are. And all of a sudden our deliverer has become some dude in pajama pants and house shoes at Wal-Mart. Why? Because they forgot their relationship. Now Ms. Angie, I'm going to give, I know that was just pretty harsh talk. I'm also going to give them one up. They also say something else wrong here. As for this fellow Moses who brought us out of Egypt. Amanda, who really brought them out of Egypt? Of course God did. Jehovah God, the covenant making God, who had not forgotten about his people nor his promises. Remember those on Wednesday night were going through Genesis? Didn't God promise them the land? God even told Abraham, 400 years your descendants will be slaves but I will remember and I will come and get them. It's God who redeemed them from Egypt. But Chris, they've made the mistake of trusting too much in the man of God and not in the God behind the man. And here's the second part of their lack of relationship. Not only Ms. Linda have they relegated Moses to the pajama house shoes guy at Wal-Mart. But they've relegated their deliverance away from God and onto Moses. So when they disassociate from Moses, they're also disassociating from their deliverer. Their divine deliverer. If I needed to bring this into context today, Jason I think the obvious association here is that you supplant me or any pastor really. Any minister, any fill in the blank pastor, minister, teacher, Bible teacher, conference speaker, author, writer, whatever it is. Somebody that you just love listening to your teaching and trust me I have a list. I have some people that I will read whatever book they write because I love the way the Holy Spirit's ministry works through them. But don't get it wrong, it's not them. They've been, they've accepted their calling. They've submitted to their calling and the Spirit works through them. But it's not them. I love C.S. Lewis. Right Stacey? Make your brain hurt. Right? I love some of that when your brain's like tired of lifting weights. I love that. But C.S. Lewis is just a man. C.S. Lewis was a sinner saved by grace. I like R.T. Kendall, a more modern author. I like the way he writes. I'm reading another one of his books. But guess what? He's a sinner. He's a sinner who has accepted a calling from God and the Spirit works through him. But it's not him. It's the God behind the man. So don't put me in that category either Jeff. Listen, I love hanging out. I love hanging out with your kids. But I'm just a sinner. I'm just a sinner who's accepted a call and hopefully can get out of the way of the Holy Spirit enough that the Holy Spirit can do his job and I can try to keep up. So don't make the same mistake that being close to the pastors being close to God. That's the same mistake they're making. They disassociated from their true divine deliverer because they replaced him by a person. And then when they lost relationship with that person, Mr. Pete, they've now lost relationship with God. And how many times, you don't have to raise your hand, but how many times have you seen a friend, not you, again Mr. Don, we're perfect. I get it. But somebody we know that they get disassociated from their church friends and then they start attending church less, right? Oh, they get a riff, right? Oh, they get a riff with their church friends. Not here because we're all perfect. But Stacy, at some church that maybe you've been at before the Air Force brought you here, you met people in church that weren't nice. And then you get that riff between you and all of a sudden that personality riff brings you further and further away from the body of Christ. So don't think this is just an Exodus story time thing. This happens today. This happens over and over today. When human relationships break down, people are brought farther away from their relationship with their divine deliverer. So here's the next thing. Syncretism leads to replacement. I get to teach you a new word this morning. Syncretism leads to replacement. So before I move on, this is what syncretism is. Syncretism is any time you add something that is outside the Bible or true Christian doctrine into Christian worship. It's called syncretism or syncretic worship. So for instance, let's think about something that's not bad. Okay. How many people know there's a steeple on top of the roof? How many people know what color it is? Miss Cindy, what color is it? It's white. Very good. I'm glad we paid attention driving to church today. How many people know why we put steeples on roofs in churches? Okay. Quick history lesson. Christianity was illegal in the early part of the second century, right? Then all of a sudden there's a Roman emperor who has a vision from God. He says conquer in this name and he legalizes Christianity. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Constantine, right? So we make Christianity legal all across the Roman Empire. But in order to make Christianity equal to all of the other Greco-Roman religions, they had to give us our own temples of worship. So what Constantine did is he said, okay, let's make Christianity equal to all of the other Greco-Roman religions. So what Constantine did is he said, okay, listen, you over at Ephesus, you guys have like three temples to your goddess. I'm going to need one of them. We're going to go ahead and give it to those people who worship Christ. And over there in Philippi, Jack, you're going to need to give up one of your pagan temples. We're going to go ahead and give it to those people who worship Christos. And Miss Ilona, over there in Corinth where you have your outreach ministry, you're going to need to give up one of those temples in order to give it to those people who worship Christ. Guess what all of those Greek temples had in common? They all had a spire at the top. They all had a spire at the top that had bells in it. Then they rang those bells to call the pagans into worship. Now what does that sound like in our culture? A steeple with a bell tower, right? So does that mean, now here's the thing, does that mean that now that I've just told you that the steeple on top of our Christian church building actually has nothing to do with Christ, that it makes it bad or wrong in any sense? It does not mean that we're in here worshiping Greco-Roman idols. It does not mean that we're in any way being anti-biblical. So there's an example of something that while it is syncratic, it is not heretical. It does not harm our Christian faith. However, what about, I'm trying to think of something that's not going to really offend a lot of people. Okay, so how about, so I have some friends, right? I have some friends who super love Old Testament law. Super love Old Covenant, Old Testament food laws, Old Testament stuff. Does that mean that even though that's not a part of the New Testament church, it's bad? I would say yes and no, and here's why. No, because it's scriptural. Yes, if it changes New Testament doctrine. That's what I would say. If you elevate anything above the teachings of Christ, if you elevate and say you're not, because what's not wrong to say is let's celebrate a Seder meal at Passover. Not wrong. You're not saved if you don't celebrate this Seder meal. Wrong, right? There's a moment when syncretism crosses over into the negative. So with that said, let's take a look at verses two through four. Here's Aaron's answer to the people. All right, y'all. Take off your gold earrings that your wives, your sons, and your daughters are wearing and bring them to me. So all the people took off their earrings and brought them to Aaron. He took what they handed him, made it into an idol, cast in the shape of a calf, fashioning it with a tool. Then they said, these are your gods, Israel, who brought you up out of Egypt. Now Travis, I think we can all agree this is a negative form of syncretism, right? We've broken a whole bunch of the commandments here, right? Don't make a graven image. Don't practice idolatry. But notice, let me go back for a second. Notice where it starts. The people are bored. They go to Aaron in force, in number, in pressure. They say, make us an idol so that we can worship because we're not really sure if Moses is ever coming down the mountain because we're tired of waiting for him. Okay, all right. This is Aaron talking, right? Okay. All right, so here's what you do. Everybody give me your gold. Here's my solution. Everybody give me your gold, which in and of itself wouldn't be totally wrong because they could have put it in the tabernacle treasury. Like that's the one thing I want to say here. Right up until the point that Aaron makes the idol, he's not being bad. Look, go back and read in Exodus the amount of money they collected from the people to build the tabernacle. If he took all of this gold and said, God doesn't want graven images, you can't use this. Go and worship him the way he should be worshiped. Aaron would have been okay at his job. The problem is he gets a hold of all of that gold. And what does he do? He took what they handed him, made it into an idol, cast in the shape of a calf, fashioned it with a tool. Just look, Joe, look at all the verbs in that one sentence. These are all actions of Aaron himself. This is the moment where Aaron has given into the crowd the peer pressure that people pressure. This is the moment where Aaron leads them into idolatry. Up until this point, as high priest, he could have corrected them. Wes, didn't God just tell us he doesn't want graven images? God who brought us out of Egypt, the invisible God, the God who was a pillar, fire pillar. No, we're not making a graven image. But here's what's even worse. Chris, he took, he made, and he fashioned. Those are three verbs that Aaron did. He took the gold, made the idol, fashioned with a tool. At this point, Miss Heather, there is no way to escape. Aaron is making a graven idol. So here's the next question. Why did he choose a calf? He could have made anything. Why not a rabbit? I think that's a cool idol. Especially if you get one out of chocolate. Easter's coming. Why not a camel? That's a popular, why not a sheep? There's all of these other animals that could have been cast. Why choose a calf? When you're not at church, grab your phone, go back and look up the words. Egyptian calf, God. The calf was one of the most honored, venerated idols in the Egyptian pantheon. So now where did Aaron, someone who was born and raised in Egyptian life before being redeemed, never left like Moses did? Moses spent 40 years over in Midian before he received the call from God. Aaron stayed in Egypt his whole life. If you want my opinion, now Chris this is an opinion, I'm going to take a jump off the page, I'm going to jump right back. Why did Aaron choose a calf? Because his cultural upbringing made him revere something that's not godly. His culture that he grew up around was the Egyptian calf God. In fact, if you've, I just did a deep dive on this thing this week, they found mummified calves, mummified cows. Why? Because the Egyptians venerated them so much. They believed that they were still venerable in the afterlife. Anybody know what the Egyptian god of the dead's name is? Osiris. Do you know what his head looks like? A cow. Giant big steer horns. Osiris is the dead living embodiment of the Egyptian calf God. So in life the calf is venerated, in death the calf is exalted, and this is the creature we choose to make. This is the part that I think skips over like, oh, it's an animal, whatever. Maybe he just liked cows. Maybe he had a cow fetish. I don't know. But I can tell you this, if a man who was raised in Egypt then chooses an Egyptian symbol that's high ranking on the Egyptian pantheon, Miss Stacy, I don't find it coincidental. I don't believe that the god of the heavens and earth who wrote the scriptures works with coincidence. I believe Aaron accessed a cultural norm from Egyptian pagan culture, and he makes the calf. But what's worse is now what the children of Israel say about the calf. Mr. Jack, look at this. These are your gods, Israel. And now we attribute to this golden calf God that we just created who brought you up out of Egypt. So now I've lost a relationship with Moses. Because of my loss of relationship with Moses, I've lost a relationship with the true Jehovah God. We've now replaced him with something cultural, and I've elevated that thing into the place of the very God who gave us deliverance in the first place. Doesn't it? Doesn't it sound all like, I'm still speaking in generalities here, but doesn't that sound a whole lot familiar? Lack of relationship leads to cultural syncretism, which leads to the elevation of culture into the replacement of God. That is exactly what they do here. What's so sad about it is, Miss Cindy, here's what I think is dangerous. This is not an idol where we believe that it has replaced God. We have crafted an idol to be the place of the one true God. They're not denying they were delivered from Egypt. Miss Tiff, these are your gods who brought you up out of Egypt. They're not denying that the God who brought us up out of Egypt is worthy of worship. What we're denying is I get to pick how that God is worthy of worship. I get to use my cultural norms and my upbringing, and I get to call it the God who brought me out of Egypt. This is a much more insidious form of idolatry. You get to the New Testament, and we're worshiping this God, and we're worshiping that God that's so clearly not the God of the Bible, the God of creation. But Rob, this is, no, I'm going to worship the God of creation, but I'm going to choose the symbol and fashion in which he will appear for me. And I'm then going to choose something that's one of my cultural norms. Fast forward, watch this. Replacement leads to moral decay. This is verses 5 and 6. Replacement leads to moral decay. When Aaron saw this, what did he do? He built an altar. So when Aaron saw what? Chris, when Aaron saw that the people claimed the cath idol is the embodiment of God, the cath idol replaces the Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of the Covenant was intended to be the symbol of God's people, his presence with them. They've replaced it now. We've replaced the genuine symbol of God's presence with a man-made pagan symbol, and now we've attributed to it the very work of God. Aaron goes, well, okay. Dave, it's my job to lead these people in worship. This is where they want to go. All right. I'll go ahead and build the altar. So what does he do? He not only, oh, gosh, he doubles down. He not only builds the altar in front of the calf, but then he makes an announcement. Ms. Angie, this is a pastoral pronouncement. This is him operating in his authority as the high priest. Guess what? Tomorrow there will be a festival to the Lord. Who chooses when God's festivals are? God. Doesn't he do that? I'm pretty sure Leviticus 23 makes that pretty darn clear. God chooses the holy days for Israel. So now lack of relationship has led us to syncretism. Syncretism has led us to idolatry. And now all of a sudden Aaron starts freewheeling, deciding when Israel's holy days are. This is, I mean, this spiral is getting deep. I mean, we're going to need some muck boots to get out of it. Heather, you have to come get us. Tomorrow there will be a festival to the Lord. So the next day, the people rose early. Bible study years. What does that mean? When the people rise early. It's important. It shows that this is my priority one. I was having a conversation with Rob the other day. He said the two most important things you do are the first thing you do and the last thing before you lead work. So using Rob's theology is the most important thing for them right here. I'm going to get up early. What am I going to do? I'm going to get up early and worship the true living God in an idolatrous manner. And then they made sacrifices and burnt offerings and presented fellowship offerings. Now, is any of this bad? Giving offerings to the Lord, offering sacrifices to the Lord. In and of itself, it's not bad. But when you do it in a syncretic and idolatrous manner, even the offerings you offer to the Lord are sin. Right? God said, I am not to be worshiped this way. If we read the law, which Moses is supposed to be coming down from the mountain to give them, he says, make no graven images. That's like, I'm pretty sure that's like in the first five of the top ten, right? Make no graven images. And here the children of Israel doing this. Tomorrow there'll be a festival. They rose early. They sacrificed, presented fellowship offerings. And then here's what happens. Afterward, they sat down to eat and drink and got up to indulge in revelry. Now, in and of itself, in English, I don't think that sounds too bad, right? Let's get revelrous about our worship, right? That's like the Old Testament word for crunk. Let's get revelrous about our worship. Here's the problem. That word doesn't mean what it looks like it means. That word means licentious sexual debaucherous activities. Licentious sexual debaucherous. I'm trying to use big words so the little kids are going to have to ask mom and dad what it means. Right? That word means all of what you're thinking right now that I've used those words. So does that fit with the portrait and the understanding of the God of the Bible that we know and how he chooses to be worshiped by his people? No. Not at all. They deal with it later in the New Testament with the Greek gods. That is not how the God of creation, the true God of grace and mercy, desires to be loved. But because they've lost a relationship with him, they have replaced him with their own cultural symbol, now they get to elevate their own carnal desires and call it the worship of God. This cycle gets nasty and it gets nasty. We're only like seven verses in, y'all. Like this cycle gets bad and it gets bad quick. So what happens? False worship is displeasing to God. Here's the heavy hammer in case you didn't know. God's really not pleased with what his people just did. So watch this. Then the Lord said to Moses, go down because your people whom you brought out of Egypt have become corrupt. That word corrupt means everything you think it means. Stained, spoiled, dirty, disgusting. All of those things is what that word corrupt means. Now here's what's interesting. Katie, if Moses is all the way at the top of Sinai, does he know what's going on at the bottom of the mountain? No, he doesn't. Does the God who is speaking to Moses on the top of Sinai know what his people are doing at the foot of the mountain? Yes. So Travis, here's where I feel a little bad for Moses. You're Moses. You go all the way up Sinai. You are in the presence of the Lord. It is warm. It is glowy. It is everything you think it could be. Mount of Transfiguration and all of this. And you are taking down the law. You are in it to win it, bro. You are in the holy of holies in the presence of God. And all of a sudden God goes, dang, come it. Whoa. Like I'm in it, Jesus. I'm here. God, I'm with you. I'm receiving the law. We've just redeemed your people, your covenant promise. Hopefully I didn't break my remote. All of that good stuff. And all of a sudden God flips it. How does that feel to me? Like one thing I have to encourage you when you read the scriptures, remember these are real human beings. The Bible is theological history, but Zach, it's still history. Moses was a flesh and blood dude. Had two feet, wore sandals, I'm pretty sure. He's a real person when we examine the story and look at Moses' perspective. Moses is receiving the law. He's writing it down. All of a sudden God's like, dude, go get your boy. I can't imagine what this feels like to Moses. And God says, go down. Moses, I'm done. I have had it. Last straw, whatever example you want to use there, girl, out. Go get those people. And they'll notice the way the Lord phrases it, Miss Stacy. Because your people whom you brought out of Egypt. Do you notice the Lord distancing himself verbally? It's almost like a verbal disowning. The Lord says, no, no, no, Moses, those are your people. I don't know what Aaron did to my people, but my people love me. Your people are corrupt and ugly. Okay? So I don't know what all of your people did, but my people would not be this way. Your people who you led out of Egypt, they've become spoiled and dirty and disgusting and corrupt. They have, look at this, they have been quick to turn away from what I commanded them. And have made themselves an idol cast in the shape of a calf. Now, we know that Moses was at the top of the mountain for like a month, right, Kim? So whilst the people on the bottom of the mountain are like, oh my gosh, this takes so long, where's Moses? The people who are at the top of the mountain in God's presence, it's been quick. Notice how the passage of time changes a lot depending on where your focus is. Moses was at the top of the mountain receiving from God, man. He doesn't need to know about what's going on on the bottom. The people at the bottom who have disassociated from God, they're like, oh, is he going to shut up soon? I need a burger. Oh, right? You ever notice that when you're in the spirit, time doesn't seem to matter. But the moment you're trying to push yourself through sin and you're missing out on that anointing from God, all of a sudden church feels like a drudgery. Oh, I am so tired, I don't want to get up. I know it's family meal and maybe I'll just show up for those little smokies afterwards. All of those things happen, so watch what happens next. This is God describing to Moses what the people are doing at the foot of Sinai. They bow down to it and sacrifice to it and have said, these are your gods, Israel, who brought you up out of Egypt. Why does God disown his people verbally? Because they had already disowned him. They had already replaced him with their own handcrafted man-made symbol. And if you want my honest opinion, Jason, I don't have to say it's an opinion, I believe it's fact. I don't think the choosing of the calf was an accident. I think the people already had in mind the kind of worship they wanted to get down on, and so they chose the idol that would authorize their selfish worship. That's my opinion, Leslie, I can't prove it totally, but it does track with the story. So how do I bring all of this forward? What does this look like for today? Here's your takeaway. We are drawn into false, sinful worship when we are distracted from our focus and or influenced by our cultural norms. God is not pleased when he is replaced by any form of an idol, and this includes attributing his works to anything other than him. This golden calf was not a replacement in totality of God. It was a replacement of the invisible nature of God and the attributing of his miraculous works to anything other than the invisible God. It is a much more insidious, dangerous, and harder to spot form of idolatrous worship, and that's why it's dangerous. So what does that look like today? When people elevate going to church in replacement of their personal relationship with Christ, it's a golden calf. I'm going to go to church, therefore God knows me. I'm not going to crack open my Bible Monday to Saturday because I've put in my church time. God, yeah, we're good. You saw me on the third from the back pew. I'm good. Yeah. You've replaced the relationship with the invisible God with something tangible that you can touch like going to church. Now I'm really going to hurt you. Your Bible is the Word of God. It should never be the replacement of God. I'm reading a book and he said to some, they've turned the Holy Trinity instead of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. They've turned it into God the Son, God the Father, and God the Holy Bible. And they've missed the activity of the Spirit in the church. If the studying of the Scriptures quenches your ability to obey the Spirit, you're reading the wrong book or you're reading the book the wrong way. Because the Spirit who inspired every jot and tittle, as the Scriptures say, every jot and tittle of that book is inspired by the Spirit. You can't obey the Spirit and be outside the Word. When the Spirit wrote the book and God never lies, A always has to equal B. You can't. But there are so many people who have elevated the Bible to an idolatrous level and they've attributed God's miraculous works to the Bible and not the God who wrote the Bible. I will say I believe that is the same thing as attributing the Exodus of Egypt to the calf instead of the God who they claimed the calf was representing. Be very careful. Be very mindful. Because while so many times as a child when I learned this story, I was taught that the golden calf was there to completely replace God. When I read the text, that's not what it really said. They're attributing to the actions of the one true God to something they can see, touch, taste, and smell. Why? I think it makes it easier. We as people, we love idols, man. Like we love our idols. You have idols in your life, I guarantee it. If you don't think you have an idol, then your idol is pride. You just call it there. Everybody has an idol that we have to fight and struggle to keep God as the priority one. The reason I entitled this Selfish Worship is because it all started with them being bored and not willing to wait on the Lord. Not willing to wait for their chosen divine deliverer to return with the right news from God. Here's the cool part. You don't have to do that today. Tina, not only do we have a risen Savior who resurrected, who bought eternal life and eternal hope, but you know what He also said? He said, hey Linda, don't go nowhere because I have a gift for you. We have an advantage that the early Israelites did not have. And He's called God the Holy Spirit. And He's indwelt within every believer. We are never without our divine deliverer. So if that's true, then you should never replace Him with any idol in your life. Amen.