Good morning to everybody joining us on Facebook. Welcome to Readswood. My name is Bill. Thank you for joining us and being a part of our service today. Whether you're watching it live or whether you're watching it after the fact, we consider it a privilege that you've chosen to worship with us today. We're getting ready to start our teaching series. We're continuing to walk through a series entitled Victory. Discover the secret of biblical blessing. Discover the secret of biblical blessing. Now, as I've said before, Miss Cindy, the word blessed has become a colloquialism in our culture. We talk about blessed as if it's money. We talk about blessed as if it's luck. We talk about blessed as if it's the excuse you give when you are just so fly that you're walking out of the house looking good and you're like, I'll be blessed, girl. We come up with all of these unbiblical reasons to use a very biblical word and that cheapens the value of it when we come to talk about it here at church. So Rob, this series is designed for us to walk through a biblical picture of blessing. I believe every word in the Bible is true. I believe God's word is true. And when God's word shows me a father in heaven who desires to bless his children, and the Bible says that God doesn't change, he is eternal in his nature, then I believe there is still a God who desires to bless his children today. But here's the key thought for this series. God can and will bless his children, but guess what? There are rules. There are rules to biblical blessing, and that's what we're going to explore as we go through this series. What are the rules of biblical blessing? So the title of this morning's message is Victory, Discover the Secret of Biblical Blessing, Spiritual Readiness. Spiritual Readiness. Now if you brought your Bibles with me, if you will turn or tap to Joshua chapter 5. We're now in Joshua chapter 5. While you turn there, let me go ahead and review where we've been. Anita, we started at the very beginning of Joshua. Moses had died. God has now elected Joshua to be the new head. Then we watched Joshua lead God's people in following the ark, the ark, priest carried by the priest. It reaches the river, the waters part. Isaiah, they cross on dry land, just like they crossed out of Egypt on dry land. And now today, Dave, we're going to watch the final thing that God is going to do with his people before they take receipt of the land. So Heather, God has already chosen a new leader. God has led them supernaturally into the land of Canaan, but we haven't yet had the battle of Jericho, right? Some of you guys remember the battle of Jericho. We haven't made it there yet. There's one more thing, Jason, we need to see before we get to what most people think, the military aspect of Joshua. So here's the first point I'd like to make. Understanding blessing requires a godly sense of timing. Understanding true West Biblical blessing requires a godly sense of timing. So this is Joshua chapter five, verse one. Now, when all the Amorite kings west of the Jordan and all the Canaanite kings along the coast heard how the Lord had dried up the Jordan before the Israelites until they crossed over, their hearts melted in fear and they no longer had the courage to face the Israelites. Now, last week we looked at God doing this supernatural work. He parts the, he stops up the waters of the Jordan. They cross on dry ground and here now, Jeff, we get to see the reaction of the people who live in the land of Canaan. The reaction is, Miss Ilona, we be scarred, right? New international bill version, guess what? Can we be scarred? And why are we scared? This is the big thing here. This is verse one of chapter five. Remember that when the scriptures were written, there were no chapter and verse notations, right? So Leslie, we got to look at what is the divine author of scripture telling us about this chapter starting in this verse right here. It's not that we call it verse one. This is a major theme. Miss Linda, the people of Canaan are frightened of the Israelites who have now moved in. Now, Rob, I got to say as a military man, I'm sure the strategic advantage of your enemies being frightened of you is not lost on you as well as Chris and several other military members we have this morning. I'm sure the idea that your enemies are afraid of you grants a very good military advantage. However, here's what's interesting. The enemy being afraid of Israel while it does give a military advantage in the next verse, Mr. Pete, God doesn't say go attack Jericho. That's what's so cool. Maeve, that's what I don't want you to miss about this verse. This verse tells us the response of the people in Canaan, but Anita, the next verse tells us the response of God to his people. So just Tyler, stick in the back of your mind. Canaanites be scurred. New international bill version. Just hold on to that as we go on these next verses. Remember that the people in Canaan are scared of the Israelites. So now we go forward. What's the next point? Come on, change. Covenant fidelity is a requirement of biblical blessing. Let me say that again because there's big words in there. Covenant fidelity or Ken, maybe I could say faithfulness to our covenant relationship with God. Right? That's what covenant fidelity is. Faithfulness to our covenant relationship with God is a requirement of biblical blessing. Now let's look at verses two through nine. After that time, after which time? The time when the people were all afraid of Israel. After that time, the Lord said to Joshua, make flint knives and circumcise the Israelites again. So Joshua made flint knives and circumcised the Israelites at Gebeah Harav. Now this is why he did so. All those who came out of Egypt, all the men of military age died in the wilderness on the way after leaving Egypt. All the people that came out had been circumcised, but all the people born in the wilderness during the journey from Egypt had not. The Israelites had moved about in the wilderness 40 years until all the men who were of military age when they left Egypt had died since they had not obeyed the Lord. Keep going. They were still uncircumcised because they had not been circumcised on the way. We're really going to drive this point home with. And after the whole nation had been circumcised, they remained there, or they remained where they were in camp until they were healed. Then, there's your when causal statement Rob, when or then the Lord said to Joshua, today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you, so the place has been called Gilgal to this day. Now Jason, that's a lot of verses. Hopefully you saw the theme repeated here. What's going on? The children of Israel cross into the land of Canaan on dry land. God miraculously stops the river Jordan. They walk on dry land. Everyone is afraid of us. Ian, let's get them, right? Isn't that the normal human mentality? My enemy's afraid of me. Let's get them. Let's go take that town. Let's go take Jericho. So, in a standard human military aspect, that is what we think should be done. That is not, however, what God had his people do. And this is why it's so important that you don't detract that scared from verse from this next section. What is it that God had them do? Recircumcise the nation. Now let's talk about why they had to do this. I think the scriptures were very clear. What's interesting is Chris, while they're in Egypt, while they're in bondage, while they're in slavery, they obey the covenant and circumcise all their children. But the 40-year wilderness wandering in the desert, they do not. Freed from slavery, they became less obedient to the Lord. Leslie, isn't that backwards? You would think while we're in Egypt, while we're being persecuted, while we're in slavery, Kippi, it would be hard to be faithful to God. But after the 10 plagues, after the parting of the Red Sea, after being led in a pillar of fire at night and a pillar of smoke during the day, you would think my heart would be led to be obedient to God. And yet that is the exact opposite of what the children of Israel do. Clive, they're obedient under oppression. But as soon as they get a little bit of freedom, they're like, woo! All right, y'all forget that circumcision thing. We out now. Come on. And then we get lost and we wander in the wilderness for 40 years. So all of the children who are born during the 40-year wilderness wandering are not circumcised according to the covenant given to Abraham. So now let's talk about what is circumcision. If you go all the way back to Genesis, you will see circumcision is the sign of the covenant. Circumcision does not install the covenant. The covenant is installed by God. God chose Abraham. God made a purpose. Wednesday nighters, is the Abrahamic covenant conditional or unconditional? Unconditional. That's right. The man Abraham, his descendants, and the nation can never lose the covenant because it's guaranteed by God's character. But Mr. Pete, they have a responsibility. Within that covenant, they are to carry the sign of circumcision. And yet here during the 40-year wilderness wandering, Kim, they're like, eh, whatever. It's funny how when life is horrible and tough and rough, Ashley, we can be fervent in our prayer life. But the moment we get a little bit of a pause, a little sunshine through the clouds, we're like, whew, Jesus, that was rough. Come on, y'all, let's get some Dairy Queen. And all of a sudden, the depth of, it's funny how when life is hard, it's easy to have faith. All of a sudden when oppression breaks, it's easy to get lazy. And unfortunately, that's what the children of Israel does. So now, Chris, here's the cool, unfortunately, the cool part of this message comes in point two. So I'm sorry that I got to ruin the rest of it for you, Dave, but why does God ensure all of the Canaanites are afraid of Israel? Not because God needs to give Israel a human military advantage. God uses the fear of the Canaanites so that Israel can properly circumcise and heal without having to worry about defending itself. God provides protection so Israel can re-purify itself to him. The fear of the Canaanites is not for military advantage. In a minute, if we were to look at the Battle of Jericho, Chris, we would see God caused the walls of Jericho to fall. God in his power handed over the city of Jericho. We didn't need man's military might. Here in verse one, God causes the Canaanites to be afraid of them because actually this is what they need to do. Y'all don't need to remember I'm a holy God. I gave you a rule. Jason, get the snippers. And I know we find it funny and humorous today that this is the sign of circumcision, but when we bring it into the New Testament, we have just as important a symbolic sign of the new covenant in Christ. We call it baptism, but our sign of baptism is to identify with the death, burial, and resurrection of our Savior. You can't get out of the New Testament without understanding the power, the importance, and the beauty of baptism. If we only understood baptism the way the Old Testament Jews understood circumcision, I think our churches look a lot different. You know what I mean? So just take that for what you will. That's like a sidebar. What I want you to see here is God causes all the Canaanites to be afraid, Anita, because we have a holiness issue. You guys need to be recommitted to the covenant before the covenant recommits to you. Before you, Miss Tiff, before I give you all the things that I have promised your ancestors to give you, you at least need to be following the rules that I gave them, right? So also just to point out for those of you who like wordplay, the word Gilgal, the reason it's called Gilgal, Gilgal in Hebrew sounds a lot like galal or galal. Galal literally means to roll away. And so when he says today I have rolled away the reproach, it's literally talking about the foreskin that has been removed from all the male Israelites rolling down a hill, rolling away from the children of Israel. That Gebeah harloth, that word that I'm sure Dave I just jacked it up. Literally in the Hebrew it means hill of foreskins. So just in case anybody likes the wordplay, it's totally all over this verse. How does God roll away the reproach of Israel? Brandy, because you were disobedient for 40 years in the wilderness. And I'm trying to call you back to me, call you back to faithful obedience in order to receive the blessing that I want to give you. So let's go forward. Next, blessings should not distract from faithful obedience. Lauren, and take a look here at verse 10. On the evening of the 14th day of the month, while camped at Gilgal on the plains of Jericho, the Israelites celebrated the Passover. Here's the chip. The other thing that God requires of his people before he's going to march them in the land and give it to him. Number one, all of you who are not properly carrying the sign of circumcision in your flesh, all of those male members who were born during your period of disobedience, it's time to get on the boat. It is time to get obedient to me. Second, if you go all the way back to Exodus, you will see that when God instituted the Passover, Rob, he instituted it as an annual thing. Go to Leviticus 23, you can see the multiple annual festivals that God required of his children. Passover is one of them. In order to be fully obedient, we didn't need to just be obedient in our flesh. Rob, we needed to be obedient in our practice. We need to be obedient in our communal acts of worship and remembrance. So what is Passover remembering? Can you throw it out there? What's Passover remember? Right, the saving of the firstborn from the penalty of death in Egypt, right? God sends the angel of death. It's the big climax of the prince of Egypt. The angel of death sweeps through, but because the children of Israel had the lamb's blood on the doorpost, come on people. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. Because of the blood of the lamb, the faithful are saved from the penalty of sin, which is death. I mean, that's the Exodus story in a short nutshell. We're going to remember that, Miss Cindy, before we go into the promised land and receive the receipt of that blessing that God has promised us all the way back in Genesis 12. We are going to hold the sign of the covenant in our flesh and we are going to worship the way we should communally in obedience to God. Despite the fact that they're now in a foreign land, Chip, the fear of the Canaanites bought or took the pressure off and bought the Israelites the space they needed to worship correctly, to worship God in holiness the way they're supposed to. If I were to bring that into our modern day culture today, I would say that maybe, just maybe, we need to take the pressure off when we come to church and allow culture to stay outside and don't carry culture all the way in to where culture begins to stifle and oppress the communal worship that we do together. Right? Obviously, I can't tell you that because of God's covenant promise, Rob, God is going to give you your neighbor's property. You should just tell him that that's what God said. If that works, come back. But we can typologically understand that because of Christ, Kippee, I have a home in glory that I hope to receive. Right? I still have a kingdom that my eyes have not yet seen, that my Savior has promised. Behold, I go and prepare a place for you. If it were not true, I would have told you. We haven't taken receipt of our promised land yet, but Mr. Pete, my hope is strong. Right? My hope is strong in that. Because Christ resurrected and promised it to me. So we're in the same boat here today. We're in the same boat that we have not yet laid eyes on, the promised land that we've been given. But trust me, I believe it'd be there. Absolutely believe it's there. But I can't ignore the rest of the passage when it comes to what's my responsibility, Jeff. My responsibility is to live in the sign of the covenant which we have been given. Now, I have been given the new covenant. Praise God. I was born in the time of the church where Jesus has already been crucified and resurrected and sent the Spirit, and I'm a part of the new covenant. Those of you who know me, you know my family is Hawaiian. My lineage is polytheistic as the day is long. I am the Gentile of Gentiles. If Paul were preaching, he'd be preaching to me. You know, that God that you did not know that you worship, let me tell you about him. That's my family. But because of the new covenant, I'm allowed to be a part of God's kingdom now. But I have a sign that I'm to carry. I died to my sins when I went in that water. Those sins should no longer be part of my life. I resurrected to a brand new life called Jesus. I resurrected to a brand new life that's not supposed to look like my former life. Right? Now we're starting to put it all together. As we receive blessing from God, we're supposed to not be distracted by culture, but give yourself the space, give yourself the distance, and be faithfully obedient. Take a look at the next thing. Blessing often comes in the form of provision. Right? So now let's, Ken, let's, excuse me, we're going to talk about this. Everybody else can take five. Ken, watch this. Ready? Blessing often comes in the form of provision. Let's look at verses 11 and 12. The day after the Passover, that very day, that very day, they ate some of the produce of the land, unleavened bread and roasted grain. The manna stopped. The day after they ate this food from the land, there was no longer any manna for the Israelites. But that year they ate of the produce of Canaan. These are all super important details that show us the theological nature of Joshua. So what happens? Ken, we cross over. We go ahead and get circumcised because we were born during the 40-year wilderness wandering. Sorry about that. You can heal up because God's already got everybody afraid of us. So we have the time to heal. We've now worshiped the Lord in the Passover. And what's the very next thing that God does? Pete, you no longer need my supernatural provision. What was the manna? The manna was God's supernatural provision for his children as they walked through the wilderness wandering period. If you ever want to see the love of God, God served meals three times a day for 40 years because his children were disobedient. I don't care how much. My son, his favorite food is mac and cheese. Micah is a mac and cheese monster. Right? How much do you love mac and cheese, bud? You can say it out loud. How much? That is what he says. Yep. It is total. And believe it or not, he says that at the dinner table at home. Mac and cheese is his manna from heaven. I don't care. Okay, now Micah, you've got to let me go. Thank you for the point. Now you throw it back to dad. I don't care how much you love mac and cheese. I'd get tired of it after a couple years. Right? God supernaturally provided for his children for 40 years in the midst of their disobedience. I think, Kim, maybe it's a big deal when God turns the faucet off. Maybe we should see why. Right? For 40 years, God has supernaturally provided mac and cheese from heaven, Velveeta, and Jesus all day. Come on. And then one day it stops. Have you ever thought about what that meant to the children of Israel? Have you ever thought about it? In this moment, Dave, Ken, Zach, the four of us, we're all healed up. Right? We just got circumcised. We're all healed up. And we just celebrated the Passover. And then, dude, every day of my life I've collected manna except for that one day a week. My whole life, anybody who's in this room under the age of 40, all you've ever known is God's supernatural daily provision. And Lisa, on this one day, it turns off. I think we sometimes, Chip, we're in such a rush to get to the military might of Joshua. We miss all that God is preparing in the hearts of his people. Rob, you're in the land I've given you now. I've now supernaturally provided via the land I no longer need to supernaturally provide in the wilderness. What does that also say? He doesn't stop the manna until after the reproach has rolled away, after the Gilgal moment. He provided for them, my Silona, the whole time they were in sin, the whole time they lived in disobedience. But when you finally got right, got the disobedience out of the way, committed back to celebrating the Passover, in the land, now they actually eat of the fruit of the land of Canaan. Is God still providing for his children? Yeah. But now he's providing for them from the land in which he has promised them. Miss Linda, it's a totally different kind of provision. The manna was for that season because they were constantly moving around. Now that you've got a place and you've got a home, and Dave, you're going to be here for a while because I promised it to your great, great, great, great, Dandy Abe. Now you're going to eat of the fruit of the land. What's funny is Mr. Pete, and I'm going to say your generation because I happen to know you're at least 42. So I'm going to go with the fact that I know Mr. Pete is older than me and I know I'm under 40. If Mr. Pete's generation, actually no, your daddy's generation because your daddy died. Right. If y'all's generation could have just been obedient, there would have never been a need for manna. There would have never been a need for the supernatural provision for God's people. If they had been obedient, but because they hadn't, Miss Heather, our generation gets a shot. But don't miss how big of a symbol this must have been. I mean, every day of my life, I turned 40 at the end of this year, so I would have been one of the first babies born in the wilderness wandering generation. Every day of my life, except for the Sabbath, I would have been out there with my father picking up manna. And now all of a sudden, Miss Stacey, it's gone. Man, I don't know about you, but Jack, that weighs heavy on my heart. What that would have meant. And plus, how tired would you be of the same food for 40 years? All of a sudden, we mean, look at what scripture says here. All of a sudden, unleavened bread and roasted grain and dates. And I just want to believe they had avocados because we need some guacamole in order to be holy. I'm telling you, it's not a bad day when you can have guacamole and your Jesus friends at the same time. It's not a bad day. I may already be. So watch what happens next. Jesus must be the center of our perspective. This is the last thing that happens in Chapter five before we go take Jericho. And this is huge. Joshua Chapter five, verses 13 through 15. Now, when Joshua was near Jericho, he looked up and saw a man standing in front of him with a drawn sword in his hand. Joshua went up to him and asked, Are you for us or are you against us? Are you for us or for our enemies? Neither, he replied. But as commander of the army of the Lord, I have now come. Then Joshua fell face down on the ground in reverence and asked, What message does my Lord have for his servant? The commander of the Lord's army replied, Take off your sandals for the place where you are standing is holy. So Joshua did so. Two things I want to point out about this passage. First is, hopefully you recognize the same symmetry between Moses and the burning bush. Take off your sandals. The place is holy. Now, let's just walk through some basic theology here. Is God an eternal being? Yes, he is. That means God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit are all co-equal and co-eternal. That means God the Son, who we call Jesus, was alive from eternity past to eternity future. Yes? We all follow along. That means Jesus, even though he wasn't born to Mary and called Jesus yet, God the Son, the second member of the Trinity, is alive during Old Testament times, right? Because he's co-eternal. This is an appearance of the God we call Jesus, the God the Son, in the Old Testament, a pre-incarnate appearance of Jesus. Those of you who like taking notes, the theological term here is Christophany. If you weren't sure which member of the Trinity it was, you could say Theophany, and that means a godly appearance. However, I'm going to go ahead with Christophany because I believe very clearly this is in human form. And the one of the three members, the Godhead, the one we know and have seen in human form multiple times, is God the Son. So this is Jesus talking to Joshua. Or if you wanted to say it in Hebrew, Chip, we could say this is Yeshua speaking to Yeshua. Right? Remember, Jesus is born, Hebrew name was Yeshua, Moses changed Joshua's name to also be Yeshua. So this is a Yeshua-Yeshua conversation. Just, I mean, again, a little wordplay here. What is, I want to go back for a second. What is it that Joshua asks? I think very, very poignant. Miss Heather, hey, are you with us or against us? And what does Jesus say? Neither. Neither. Probably the best answer in a whole chapter. Dave, are you with me or against me? Neither. Why? Because ultimately what Jesus is saying is, Rob, this is not a matter of whether I am with you or against you. It's a matter of whether you're with me or not. That's what Jesus is saying to Joshua. He's saying, listen, it's not me being with you, bro. It's you being with me. I led you. Remember the presence of God? The ark opened up the River Jordan. The holiness of God led them into the land. This is Jesus saying, Angie, if you want to take the land that, by the way, I promised to your great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-granddaddy Abraham. Remember me, God? Yeah, I made that promise. Then you need to be with me, not me with you. You need to make sure you're on my side, not whether God is on your side. And that's a big theological distinction. But look at the whole chapter now. Let's talk about this is the conclusion. But as commander of the army of the Lord, I have now. And that's a big word. Now come. Why does Jesus wait till the end of chapter five? Well, Dave, if you want my personal opinion on it, it's because all of the events of Chapter five had to happen in order for the children of Israel to be ready and prepared to be led by Jesus. And then the next chapter, we begin the conquest of the land. All of this is precursor. All of this is important because if we just skip to Joshua taking the battle of Jericho, Miss Ilona, we could be tempted to believe that they won in their own military might. We could be tempted to fight in the battle of Jericho. We could be tempted to believe that they won in their own military might. We could be tempted to forget when God makes promises, those promises are good. When God makes promises, you can take them to the bank. That's why I believe this chip. This might be the single most important and yet overlooked chapter in the entire Book of Joshua. All that God required of his people. And remember, what was verse one? The Canaanites were afraid of them. And if you had a personal human, you know, military aspect, Tyler, you would have attacked while they were still fearful of you. That was not the purpose of the enemy's fear. The purpose of the enemy's fear is so that the people could get right with God, that they could be circumcised, that they could celebrate the Passover. Then Joshua would be reminded, bro, it's if you're on my side, not me on your side, don't get it wrong. How many times, and I'll just say this, how many times have I gotten that phone call from a random distant friend? Nobody in our church, because you guys are super Christians, I get that. But there are other people who struggle to live out their faith daily. And I get calls all the time, Bill, I got this job interview on Tuesday, will you pray for me? Bro, I'll pray for you right now. Hang on, let's pray over the phone. And then I'll follow up with them. And they'll, Miss Stacy, did you get that job? Oh, I did. Thank you so much for praying. Oh, great. Are you going to tie it off that income that you asked God to give you? Oh, all of a sudden nobody wants to have that conversation, right? Nobody wants to say, God, I trust that you gave this to me, I'm going to give back to you. That's the putting God on your side, not you on his side mentality. Don't get it wrong. They got the land of Canaan because God had already promised it to them. But God had promised it to them because of their obedience. If you remember our year long walk through the Bible last year, God took his children away from the land, not his land, away from the children, all because of their disobedience. This is the beginning of that story. And Jesus is reminding Joshua, bro, it's not I'm with you. It's your way that you're with me. That's the question that we have to leave with ourselves today. Yes, we have a new sign of a new covenant. Have you submitted to that sign? Let me just honestly, can we say I've come to Christ? Yeah, that's fantastic. But there's more to the story. It doesn't, you know, and I will say I don't always fault my upbringing. I was raised American Baptist in New Jersey. And then when we got paroled out of New Jersey, we moved to Florida. And then I found out that Southern Baptists Southern Baptist had drum sets. I was like, wow, this is cool. The church I grew up in had a full size black grand piano, beautiful instrument and an actual pipe organ in the wall. Like it vibrated the balcony when she hit the low left. It was awesome. But that's all I knew. Then we moved to Tallahassee, Florida, and everybody has an accent and it don't sound like mine from New Jersey. So they're like, hey, man, you talk weird. I'm like, I don't talk weird. You talk. So then I find out, Angie, you can have a drum set in church. Then I started and then we had handbells, handbells we had in Jersey. But the children were never allowed to touch the handbells. I joined the handbell choir when I was like 12. That's how I learned how to read music. And then as I've lived my life, I will get to you. Actually, there's been that I've kind of wanted God to bless my path. I want to go here. If you could bless that, that'd be super great. It's not really God. Do you want me to go there? But God, I'm going this way. I have decided in and of my own sovereign awesomeness that this is how we should go. So, God, if you could bless this way, it'd be great. Versus. God, I could go left or I could go right here. Which one is what you want me to do? That requires patience. Go back to the beginning. That requires that godly sense of timing and putting a focus on Jesus and not on yourself. Let me go forward here. So what's the takeaway? Here's how I want you to bring this forward to today. Understanding God's blessing in our lives requires a perspective centered on Christ and the patience to wait for his timing. Our responsibility is to live in faithful obedience. Remembering our covenant relationship with the Savior.