Our culture has given into this idea that blessing is either completely abstract or it's like the Christian version of luck Mr. Pete because you and I are lucky that we must be blessed that is equally as Wrong. The reality is the Bible talks about a God who loves his children Who wants to see them be blessed? However, there are rules to it So here's our key thought God can and will bless his children But there are rules to biblical blessing I cannot change the Word of God nor will I but I can tell you this the Bible talks a lot about a God who wants to bless his children But we have to follow the rules So this morning's message is victory discovering the secret of biblical blessing crossing the Jordan so if you would like to turn or tap with me to Joshua chapter 3 our text this morning is going to begin in Joshua 3 1 and take us all the way over through to Joshua chapter 4 verse 7 miss Lisa If you'll remember we talked about this on Wednesdays when the scriptures were written there were no chapter and verse notations There what Joshua didn't stop and go Joe. I think this is a good place to put chapter 4. Let's take a break We'll get a new scroll now We added the chapter and verse notations years and hundreds of years after Christ so we could do what we're doing today But if you read Joshua chapters 3 and 4 I believe what you will notice Jack is the story continues. We're watching one big narrative So before we jump into it now that I know that you guys are all you know big story biblical scholars Let's talk about where does the book of Joshua take place well the story and the book of Joshua the conquest of Canaan takes place After the exodus from Egypt so that puts us after the Moses story right Moses is born in Egypt He redeems the children of Israel they come out they wander in the wilderness for 40 years because of well Let's face it disobedience Then Moses and all of that generation except for two people die off Joshua being one of those two one who were faithful Originally and then as we saw last week God has now appointed Joshua to be the head of the nation of Israel Joshua will now lead so this Joshua has led the children of Israel to the river last week miss angel We watched God prepare his people for blessing this week We will watch them actually cross over into the land of promised blessing so here's the first point. I'd like to make this morning The holiness of God is to be our guide the holiness of God is to be our guide So let's start here early in the morning Joshua stop Wednesday night Bible study people what kind of term is early in the morning. What does it tell us? Tells us as an important thing I heard it an important thing. I'm not waiting till mid-morning I didn't wait till the afternoon mr. Pete I didn't wait until we had our lunch in our afternoon nap in order to get to this early in the morning meaning Kenneth you're dead on of a high priority early in the morning Joshua and all The Israelites so now not only miss Kippy am I starting early in the morning? I'm starting early in the morning And I'm including everyone the full breadth of Israel led by God's appointed leader Joshua Sets out from Sheetam and went to the Jordan where they camped before crossing over So Wes if you draw that mental map in your head, right? They're over here if the community tables the River Jordan, they're camped over here. They have not crossed into Jordan They haven't crossed the river yet. It means they're not into the land that God promised, but they're they're poised to receive That's the best way I can put that Kim They are poised to receive all the God has promised them this land this blessing Three after three days the officers went through the camp giving orders to the people here comes the orders go next When you see the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your God and all the litigantical feasts priests carrying it You are to move out from your positions and follow it. So Sweet there it is. So First off we have to talk about miss margarita. What's the Ark? We're Old Testament times Jesus hasn't come yet. There's no ascension There's no Holy Spirit during the Old Testament times the Ark of the Covenant is the visible Manifestation of God's presence with his people. This is in essence God saying Cindy I'd be with you new international bill translation I'd be with you and not only that but look at the point here Who is to do the leading when it comes to leading them into the land of blessing? when you see the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your God and the litigantical priests carrying it you are to move out your positions and Follow it You cannot lead yourself into blessing in front of God That's not how that works yet Joe that'd be an equal of saying God I'm going this way bless that Instead of saying Lord, where do you want me to go? Oh this way? Oh, okay If I got 360 degrees to pick from Jack I got 259 different choices that are wrong God wants us to go this way So the first thing I have to when I take this and I bring it into their context and bring it forward is this You can't make God bless your choices He blesses your choices when they line up with his leading with his direction So they follow the Ark of the Covenant then You will know which way to go since you have never been this way before now Margo. Here's an interesting point Had they actually crossed into the Jordan yet? No, they haven't so in my opinion There's kind of like a double meaning to this sentence here number one You need to follow my holiness You need to follow my presence because you've never been to the land of Canaan before but put it in context to where we are In the Bible chip you ain't lived in holiness before either you haven't actually followed my law Why do you think we wandered for 40 years? Because you couldn't figure out how to be obedient So this sentence has a double meaning there Not only do they need to follow because they've not physically been there but miss Kim They needed to follow because they'd not spiritually been following God's holiness God saying listen that land David you can see over the shoreline of the river. You can see it's right there But you're gonna follow me to get there. It'd be why because you ain't never been this way before New international bill version you're gonna follow and and I have to say that's so true for us today how many people stop and go Lord am I living in holiness? Like I know when I grew up holiness was a much more popular term than it is today Right, how often do you hear preachers rip on the idea of living a holy life? It is not Culturally popular to talk about holiness why cuz you know, it's the on the unfortunate truth Maeve I can't talk about holiness without pointing out their sin in your life I'm sorry like ooh ouch. That's harsh, right? I can't talk about living in holiness if we can't say that going in holiness means going against sin Following in holiness means going away from the sinful things that I want and turning towards the holy things that God wants and He's saying listen, you're gonna need to follow my presence You're gonna need to follow the visible manifestation of me in your presence because you've not been this way before Now mr. Melvin, we have a wonderful blessing living in the age of the church Once you have become a Christian and indwelt with the spirit We have the presence of God carried within each one of us and yet somehow we still can't figure out how to go this way before So I don't really feel bad for the ancient Israelites. I feel bad for us Miss Heather, I can be filled with the spirit and still choose sin. How wrecked is that right? So you've not been this way before but keep a distance of about 2,000 cubits when you and the ark go near it now Here's something interesting is anybody here reading in a translation that's not NIV Mr. Pete you are right your two sentences are reversed aren't they? Well, cuz what I'll tell you is this the NIV translators translated these last two sentences and I know why they did and miss Laura I'm gonna point out why they did but I think in Transposing these two sentences we miss a big point here. So watch this so Your second to last sentence talks about then you will know which way to go since you've never been this way before The last sentence that is but keep a distance about 2,000 cubits I'm gonna reverse those sentences and read it again When you see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God and Levitical priests carrying it You are to move out from your positions and follow it But keep a distance of about 2,000 cubits between you and the ark do not go near it Then you will know which way to go since you have never been this way before Right that the inversion is what's the priority versus what's the action? So chip? What's the priority following God's holiness, but what's the action? Respecting the distance that the NIV translators inverted these two sentences in order to accentuate the one the problem is Miss Ilona, I think we can miss the other We should be following God with a healthy respect for his holiness. Am I right your translations got the sentences reversed, right? So I'm reading out of the NIV But I wanted to point that out because it's great to read the Bible in multiple translations Because kippy in this instance when you reverse those you say listen I want you to follow it But keep a distance then you'll know which way to go it puts more emphasis on God's holiness and less emphasis on the direction We're going we miss that in the NIV when they invert it they inverted it for the purpose of hey This is where we're going but chip you're not going that way if God's holiness isn't going in front of you So just want to point that out. It's never bad to read the Bible in more than one translation So If that's gonna connect that'll be my next point. No, there you go So my next point is this Consecration here's angel another super popular word that we love to talk about today Consecration is our responsibility. This is Joshua chapter 1 verse 5 Joshua told the people consecrate yourselves Consecrate yourselves now. Here's what's interesting Let's talk about what consecration really means So Consecration is a word that you may not have used depending on your church background Depending on whether you come from a more liturgical or traditional background But what consecration means is if we were standing in the old tabernacle there were lampstands, right? So I'm just gonna take this mic stand right here If we take this microphone stand and miss Cindy we dedicate it For the use of God for the purposes of God only to be used to serve God That's called consecrating it I could say this setting it apart for a special and divine or sacramental or holy usage That's what consecration means Sanctification I could use that one and applies to the human sanctification is the same idea Consecration refers to understanding that that mic stand is never to be taken to a gig never to be taken to a bar Never to be taken to a birthday party because this Object has been consecrated for the use of God Or another way I could say it some of you probably it's already in tip your tongue. This is the guest towel I've said this before we grow up with guest towels I grew up with guest towels my mama had special towels that went into the guest bathroom That I as an icky teenage boy was never allowed to touch because they were embroidered and they were beautiful They were decorated and why because its purpose is of a different nature You as the stinky 13 year old teenage boy you get the ratty towels that have been like they're about to be cycled out of usage Because they got holes in them. That's what you give the teenage boys, right? But the nice towels the embroidered towels the higher purpose towels That's think about that way being consecrated when an object is consecrated to the Lord It's for a higher purpose. It's for a more sacramental purpose. Now, what does Joshua say? Jeff consecrate yourself meaning See yourself as assigned for a higher purpose for a more spiritual value Set apart not for daily use not for early day stuff. You are set apart for godly stuff You've got to see yourself is what Josh was telling them The whole the holiness of God is about to lead you in the promised land But you got to get this holy before your feet walk on what that which is already yours He's saying consecrate yourselves miss Cindy see yourself as set apart for God's purpose Stop or if I could translate it into our modern-day language Dave stop living for the world Stop living for yourself stop living for your own pleasure or your own growth and See yourself as set apart for godliness Now that's that I mean that's a whole series in and of itself What does it mean to truly be set apart for godliness? But this is what he's saying here Consecrate now who's gonna do the action of consecration? You are consecrate yourself This is a great. I mean I could bring this in the New Testament Joe We could be in the world but not of the world I could be rubbing elbows with sinners all day long your sin does Not make my soul dirty My Jesus makes your soul white. It's a very easy math problem before I moved here in my church in Florida I played on a Thursday night billiard team So I played on a billiard team with and it was in a big smoky bar and Melanie made me wash my clothes Every single Thursday night as soon as I came home And I got asked from a pastor friend of mine how I thought that that was okay And I told them I said Because my Jesus can make the bar Holy the bar can't make my Jesus sinful like it's a simple math problem for me now I was there with friends from my church. There were several people from our church that all played on the same team I don't smoke. I don't drink like it wasn't an issue What was really funny is actually I never came out and said I was a pastor I asked a couple people in my church not don't don't don't do this to me Okay, let's not walk in the door of the pool hall and everybody needs to like not talk around the preacher But what's funny is after being there for four or six weeks the other team captains became aware of what I did Went on my non billiard nights and they all of a sudden like oh you can't cuss at it Like when you're playing him you need to watch your mouth Like they all of a sudden started policing themselves and then all of my games became theological conversations Talking about the difference between Catholic and Protestant doctrine talking about how did the Bible come to be I spent Thursday nights Evangelizing in a smoke-filled bar fueled or beer fueled bar just because I was able to play pool Does that mean I was making myself sinful? No, I think I was trying to do what Jesus did and not be afraid to rub elbows with sinners because it doesn't make me Look bad It makes him look good But I can't take credit for that either now the end of that story is none of those people ever came to my church Did some of them get saved? I believe they did I fully believe that's the Holy Spirit's ministry not mine I'm not responsible to sign off on that He says consecrate yourselves why David because for or because Tomorrow the Lord will do amazing things among you You ever considered a reality that God wants to do amazing things in your life, but can't because you're not consecrated enough. I Know that stings right that hurts God desires to bless his children But before they could cross into the land of blessing he says Tyler you need to be living for me and not you You need to be living for me and not your wallet living for me and not your popularity living for me and not your ego Not just Tyler, but all of us Consecrate yourselves for tomorrow. The Lord will do here's my next point faithful obedience doesn't have to make sense This is my absolute favorite part of what we're about to say here faithful obedience doesn't have to make sense watch Christian watch what God asks them to do sir I'm still in chapter 3. I'm about to cross in Okay, I'm sorry. No, we still be chapter 3. I may have gotten the notation wrong When you see the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord No, no, I gotta read from over here Joshua said to the preeks take up the Ark of the Covenant and pass on ahead of the People okay, great God's holiness being carried by his priests are gonna pass on So they took it up and went ahead of them and the Lord said to Joshua today I will exalt you in the eyes of all Israel so that they may know I am with you as I was with Moses We talked about that last week Joshua taking the place of the divine leader of Israel and then watch what happens Tell the priests to carry the Ark of the Covenant when you reach the edge of the Jordan's waters go stand in the river Mr. Don you live on the water, right? What I mean just put again we know what's gonna happen. Mr. Pete We've read it a bunch of times but put yourself in the mindset of this very day The priests are just picking up the holiness of God. Mr. Don I need you to go wait out into the middle of the pianka tank Just go Doesn't that feel weird? Like don't over spiritualize the text and miss the faith that these men had to have they are carrying the visible manifestation of God Janie go check your crab traps It it feels which you can let it feel weird it's okay I'm giving you permission to let the Bible feel a little bit weird because we're carrying the holiness of God and we're walking out Into the middle of the river miss Susanna. Let's go to the beach walk out in the middle of the pianka tank God's gonna do something cool Now keep in mind This is the same nation that crossed the Red Sea on dry land Right, so most of the older generation died, but the children who left Egypt are the adults in this story So the Tucker and the Micah and Tyler's not quite military age yet the Tyler Maverin, Lornan, Jessen, Kamje them they crossed out of Egypt on dry land and They're now grown up to be the Wesley and the Jason and the will and and maybe uncle Jack, you know So they're the generation doing this they did cross the Red Sea, but 40 years of wilderness. Did they remember it? I don't know God's about to slap him upside the face and remind them in true holiness fashion what he's about to do But don't miss the odd nature of this Sometimes God asks us to do things that just don't make no sense Does that mean we shouldn't obey No, but it does mean we should expect My wife tells the story is not my story. It's my wife's but she's not here. So I get to preach it My wife tells the story of a friend of hers who went to a local drugstore and Absolutely felt the Lord telling them go stand on your head right outside the drugstore go to that corner over there Go stand on your head Lord No, I Mean honestly, no that that that's weird. That doesn't make no sense You know God that just don't make no sense So he goes in the store he does his shopping still Holy Spirit knocks on his head again go in the corner stand on your head But God, I'm shopping. I got I got bags of stuff now spill all my stuff God would just don't make no sense comes back out of the stories back on the park on the sidewalk third time Go in the corner stand on your head, dude Okay, Holy Spirit, I don't know what this is. But so the young man goes stands on his head in the corner other side of the parking lot a woman gets out of her car in tears Rushes across the entire parking lot walks right up to the young man Who's now right side up again right stood on his head waited there for a few seconds in? Tears and she says young man. I have to tell you I was just in my car and I've had a horrible week and she enumerates the tragedies in her life And she said I was crying out saying God if you're real go make someone stand on their head That's a true real-life story that happened during my lifetime you could ask my wife about it now She didn't see it, but she heard the story secondhand Well, God, I just don't make no sense. Maybe it doesn't need to make sense to you because you're not the God talking to everybody else Right. Sometimes in order for us to be obedient We must get outside of our comfort zone a little bit outside of our that don't make no sense Zone a little bit and be willing to be a little bit embarrassed. I'm sure that young man thought what the man can what are we doing? But see our limited scope we have to accept the reality West our limited scope does not see all that God sees God knew about that woman on the other side of the parking lot the young man did not all God needed from him was his obedience For God to do the rest of the ministry drew the rest of the work God needed obedience and then he does all that he does So when the priests go they carry the very holiness of God to go check the crab traps in the middle of the river It does feel weird and that's okay Jack maybe God's gonna ask us to do weird stuff and we have to decide whether we're gonna be obedient or not So let's go forward again now blessing can be miraculous job. This is chapter 3 not one. I apologize blessing can be miraculous. We keep going Joshua said to these Israelites come here and listen to the words of the Lord your God So first who are they obeying Joshua or God? They're being God that's also very important to remember Isaiah This is really God talking through the spokesperson of Joshua, but still God leading his children. And what does he say? This is how you will know I love it when God says that takes the guesswork out miss Heather This is how you will know That the living God is among you and that he will certainly drive out before you the Canaanites Hittites Hiavites Peresites Girgashites Amorites and Jebusites Where are they now geographically at the Jordan about to cross into Canaan? Who are all the idea ites? All the people who are living there God is going to drive out the idea as a theological term, right? I'd I'd you know exactly what I mean. They're gonna drive out all of the I.T.S. because why this is the big why does God drive all those people out? Because way back in Genesis chapter 12 God made a promise to a man named Abraham and he's finally making do on that promise This land is given to my children. We call that the Abrahamic Covenant, that's right Abrahamic covenant one of the components of the Abrahamic covenant is giving the land to his children here for the first time They're going to take receipt of it. So we go forward See the Ark of the Covenant remember that's the manifestation of God's presence Ark of the Covenant and all the earth will go into Jordan ahead of you now then Choose 12 monk men from the tribes of Israel one from each tribe and as soon as the priests who carry the Ark of the Lord The Lord of all the earth set foot in the Jordan its water Flowing excuse me. It's waters flowing downstream will be cut off and stand up in a heap now two things number one The standing up on a heap if you were to get your Bible atlas out happens some 26 miles upstream It's a ways of it's a good ways away So the was soon as the priests carrying the water now here Don you and Janey you're carrying the presence of God out into the Pianca tank out past your your crab traps, but the moment your feet touch the water This is not the Red Sea moment where you watch it stand up No, no, this is the other way around miss Heather. You touch the water and all of a sudden the river starts decreasing Because see it stopped 26 miles upstream at another town and so you're not watching this Like the Red Sea and you know everybody likes the Prince of Egypt with the big walls of water and the lightning crashes with the whales Behind it super epic. This is not that this is the other way around Kim You step in the water and all of a sudden it's like somebody pulled the plug out of the river a river runs dry 26 miles away The river just runs dry then the priests carry all the way out into it now the other thing I need you to see is They told to pick 12 guys for 12 stones Circle underline long press highlight do what you need to do with your Bible Don't miss that because where we're going you're gonna want to know that So when people broke camp to cross the Jordan the priests carrying the Ark of the Covenant went ahead of them who led God or Joshua God did God is leading now the Jordan is at flood stage during all harvest yet as soon as the priests who carry the Ark Reach the Jordan their feet touch the water's edge the water from upstream Stopped flowing so flood stage means this is the widest the river can be miss miss Susanna We cannot blame this on somebody accidentally rolled a small stone into a little creek and that's what cut off the water No, we are talking flood stage river at the highest peak of the year and as soon as the priests touch it That's technical term to do all of a sudden the water goes down It piled up in a heap a great distance away at a town called Adam in the city of Zarathan While the water flowing down to the sea of Arabia. That's the Dead Sea was completely cut off Why so the people crossed opposite Jericho Jason one thing? I want you to know about this This is the second and last time in the entire Bible that God performs a natural miracle For the benefit of his entire nation. What was the first one? the Red Sea in both instances The children of Israel crossed between water on dry land To receive that which God has for them the Red Sea is the redemption from sin that punishment of death, right? That's all whole Exodus story and they cross the waters get out of that the second one they cross the water again So go into their land of blessing huge analogies here for the blood of Christ in the waters of baptism Huge analogy that I have time to unpack it all but those of you who are nodding you're tracking with me You know right where I'm going huge analogies here both times the children of Israel cross on dry land through water One is the redemption of sin one is the receipt of blessing don't miss how those come into our lives in the New Testament Also, I can't unpack the rest of that because you guys all I know that I'm not I know who I'm preaching to The priest who carried the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord stopped in the middle of the Jordan and stood on dry ground while look at that all Israel passed until the whole nation had completed the course the priests West You and Don and Janie and chip you guys stand in the middle of the Jordan River while the entire nation crosses now remember There is 26 miles of dry land in this river This is not like oh the aisle right here between the pews This is not let's take the entire nation of Israel and walk them two by two across the River Jordan No, there's a massive expanse of dry land when they cross into the Jordan's act. This is a massive military maneuver a huge breadth of nation goes I'm here all in one time and notice where they crossed Right across from the city of Jericho now We're not going to expound the story of Jericho and rehab But if you go through that chapter and look at it what you'll see is rehab admits We're melting in fear because of you why not because you guys are numerous I've got a big city with walls to protect me you have a god that can cut off a river Not sure what my walls are gonna do for that Not sure how my walls are gonna work when you have a god who can stop a river 26 miles away and everyone crosses but why does God do this? Why does God do this miracle because the children of Israel have already been promised their land of blessing All of this miracle right here is God Fulfilling that which he has already promised and finally this blessings are to be remembered crossover to Joshua chapter 4 verse 7 verses When the whole nation crosses the Jordan River Joshua chapter 4 verse 7 verses when the whole nation had finished crossing So how long Wes and Don and Janie how long are you standing there the entire nation crosses the river the holiness of God makes the way The entire nation receives the promise when the whole nation had finished crossing the Jordan the Lord said to Joshua Choose 12 men from among the people one from each tribe and tell them to take up 12 stones in the middle of the Jordan For right where the priests are standing Notice that right where Don and Janie and Wes are don't go anywhere in the river go to that exact spot and collect 12 stones right from where they're standing and carry them over with you and Put them down at the place where you stay tonight. Why? So Joshua called the 12 men He appointed the Israelites one from each tribe said to them go before the ark into the middle of the Jordan take up a stone On his shoulder notice this this is not a pebble, right? Mave this is not something you're sticking in your purse on your on your way out of the Jordan This is a heavy enough stone that you would have needed to carry it on your shoulder Each one of you take a shot as according to the number of tribes. So how many tribes are there in Israel? Fantastic. So how many stones did we take? That's right to sir. We're good at math today, too Oh, I mean go back to that last line why to serve as a sign among you? Not only is God going to perform a miraculous miracle. I Want you to remember it Mr. Pete you and 11 dudes one from each tribe now Why is that important because this miracle is not an individual miracle Joe? This is the whole nation got this the whole nation received its promised land So each tribe will take one stone from the very place where Don Janie and Wes are standing with the presence of God And you're gonna take it out. You're gonna take it back to your camp Why to serve as a sign among you why in the future? When your children ask you what do these stones mean? Tell them the flow of Jordan was cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord it went Or when it crossed the Jordan the waters of the Jordan were cut off These stones are to be here as a memorial to the people of Israel forever Wes when God gives you a blessing Don't keep it to yourself That blessing that he gave you can be an encouragement to Heather or to Ashley or to Jeff or to myself or to chip with Kim This is a corporate blessing remember we talked about the fact that in the Old Testament God deals with his children Corporately in the New Testament he deals with us individually praise God for that blessing that doesn't mean God still doesn't have a corporate agenda For his church it just means that we get individual salvation praise God. I'm happy Here we clearly see God performing a miracle for his people and then telling him Ashley Teach your children remind your children those who aren't here today because they say what do these stones mean when we cross the implication is The children you're gonna teach that to aren't alive on this particular day. They're not the Micah Tucker Tyler's They're not the cam J and Lauren and in Maverins They're y'all's kids chip your grandkids who didn't write let's just let's just wrap that for your minute Chips gonna need prayer after church so When chips grandchildren ask what about those stones miss Kim your grandchildren my grandchildren miss Ashley your grandchildren Miss Laura your grandchildren, right? When your child's child asks about these stones Tell them what God did and tell them why God did it tell them we crossed over on dry Land when the river was at flood stage in order to receive the promise he'd already given us Yes, there are times where God's gonna ask you to do something and your natural humans gonna say God that just don't make no sense But he can do the miraculous and Ken, let's be honest miracles don't make a lot of sense either until they happen, right? We're watching this miracle from the the the what is the hindsight right hindsight's always 2020 I almost said 4040 that'd be really bad hindsight better hindsight's always 2020. Mr. Don we get to see the reason for this blessing What about the miracle that God wants to do in your life tomorrow that you haven't seen or heard or felt yet? That one's not gonna make a lot of sense in the moment But miss angel is gonna make a lot of sense a week or a month or a year or five years after that And then you're gonna look back and go that was totally God working in my life And then once you have that nugget right there, dude teach your kids that Joe teach your grandkids that make them teach their kids that God still can work the miraculous God can still do amazing Like has God really changed? Like I don't need to get all super preachy, but I still believe in a miracle work in love and powerful sovereign. Holy God And I believe he still is as powerful today as he was on this day But the question we have to ask ourselves is God doing today in us and in our church Because we're not Joshua crossing the Jordan into the land of Canaan We're Reed's wood Christian Church here in Gloucester, Virginia. We have a different mission God has given us his Holy Spirit something they didn't have then so the circumstances has changed The idea that God's character still doesn't desire to bless his children has not So here's the takeover how do we bring this forward just like the ancient Israelites we have a biblical Responsibility to live as though we are consecrated to the Lord when blessing comes our way We need to memorialize it and share it with others Those two points I think are very clear and can be brought forward I can't tell you that if you cross the piyanka tank God is going to give you your neighbor's land That might not be the way God's working in your life today Don let me know if that works though because if it does I'm coming over I'm not saying that's what God's doing today. What I'm saying is what is he doing today? I believe he's still at work in his church I believe he's still at work in his children and I believe we are still called to live as consecrated people So last week we talked about the fact that you can't live in blessing without obedience second point You can't live in our blessing without consecration. I know that's a rough. That's a look. That's a sticky subject But you can't chart a course through sin and say God bless that No, you've got to stop and say Lord, which way are you leading me because I know you'll bless that You understand the difference. We're not charting our own course and saying God I'm going that way I really hope you could bless something along the way We're saying God which way do you want me to go because I know your way will be blessed I know just like the 23rd Psalm if you lead me you will lead me into blessing