Hi, good morning. Welcome to Readswood. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining our church online on Facebook. Thank you for those of you who are listening to the audio recording after the fact. Really appreciate you being a part of our service today. We are going to be concluding our study entitled Worth Less Worship Today. So for the last several weeks, Jeff, we have been studying moments in the Scriptures where God rejects the worship of His people. I know that seems like a backward statement, Miss Stacey, but there are times, and we have explored three so far. So as a way of review, for those of you who have either watched or listened, as a way of review, let's look at the ones we have looked at. So the very first week, we were at the super beginning of the Bible in the book of Genesis, the story of Cain and Abel. That's right. God accepted one and rejected the next. The next week, where did we go? The Golden Calf at Mount Sinai, where God rejects the corporate worship of His people. And that's to tell Moses, go down there and deal with your people because your people have problems. Then where did we go? Aaron's sons, Nadab and Abihu, right at the beginning of the... You got it, Aaron's sons. I know where you're going. Nadab and Abihu, they offer legitimate worship before God, and it is rejected. And then finally, this week, let me give you the key thought that's going to put all of this together. Not all worship offered to God is accepted by Him. So that's our key thought that's putting all this together. And here is this morning's message. No, is that going to change? Oh, it does. Just delays a lot. There we go. Deceptive worship. Acts chapter five. Nope. It does not like... Here we go. All right. So it does not like two remotes at the same time. It gets confused. So we'll just use the clicker. So this morning's message is entitled Worthless Worship. Deceptive worship. Deceptive worship. I believe if you'll turn with me to the book of Acts chapter five, we're going to look at the first 11 verses. We are going to see an instance where someone gave worship to God in a deceptive manner. Those of you who may be familiar with the book of Acts, you may know exactly where we're going. I want you to do me a favor. If you are familiar with this story, I want you to resist the temptation to beat me to the punch. Let me have a good sermon today, Amanda. I know you know the story, but let me have a good sermon. All right. So Acts chapter five, verses one through 11. Here's the first point I want to make to you. Motivation in worship is everything. Your motive in why we worship God. Kippie, why do we come up here to use our musical talents to lead people in God, to lead people in the worship of God? The motive behind why you do something directly flavors everything that you will do about it. I've been on worship teams with people who need to be seen. You know, not our worship team because our worship team is amazing. It gets to your first Sunday you have walked into the Lord's perfect church. There are no imperfect people here. While you are here, you are perfect. You have no flaws. But there are churches out there, you know, out there somewhere that's not here, but in a galaxy far, far away. There's a church where there are people who get up on stage because they need to be seen on stage. That's a wrong motive for wanting to worship God. So let's take a look at the first two verses of Acts chapter five. Now, a man named Ananias, together with his wife, Sapphira, also sold a piece of property with his wife's full knowledge. He kept back part of the money for himself, but brought the rest and put it at the apostles feet. Now, let's take a look at what we just learned. So Ashley, our first character is named for us, Ananias. Together with his wife, Sapphira, Ananias is a man. Sapphira is his wife. And that also tells me what they just did. They also sold a piece of property. Now, if you have an actual Bible, I want you to underline, circle, long press, highlight, do something with the word also right there. In the second line, also sold a piece of property. I know I've said it several times, but Zach, when the Bible was written, there were no chapter and verse notations, right? Luke did not stop, right? He didn't stop and say, you know what? This feels like a good chapter break. Let's go ahead and start a new story here. No, he just wrote as the spirit inspired him. And here's a major problem with this particular chapter break. Zach, when you go to the beginning of this chapter five, you're tempted to think that it's the beginning of a story. But the reality is, this story really started at the end of last chapter. That's why it says, also sold a piece of property. So, also tells me someone else did it first. So, if you go to the end of Acts chapter four, you're going to find a small little reference to a guy named Joseph, who's known by a more popular name, Barnabas, who sold a piece of property and laid the money at the Apostles feet. Now, Ananias and Sapphira also sold a piece of property. See, so if you just are, you get blinded by your chapter and verse notations, we can sometimes be tempted to miss events that should be correlative in the scriptures. This story really starts at the beginning of, or at the end of chapter four, when Barnabas, also named Joseph, sells a piece of property and he gives it all to the Apostles. Because at that time, the church just shared in everything. It wasn't communism, it was communi-tee. They shared all that they had for the benefit of all who had need. And Barnabas does this, and Miss Linda, Ananias and Sapphira want to be like Barnabas. So, you can't properly understand the story of Ananias and Sapphira unless you go back and look at the verses preceding chapter five and see that there were already other people doing this. Ananias and Sapphira are not the first people in the New Testament to sell a piece of property and give the money to the Apostles. They are following a pre-established pattern. And we actually are already told, one person who does it, his name is Barnabas. However, now we need to, Brian, look at what is described, how are Ananias' and Sapphira's gift different from that of the previous gifts that have been mentioned. So, now a man named Ananias, together with his wife Sapphira, also sold a piece of property. Cool, Ash, we can do that. We can sell a piece of property. But, with his wife's full knowledge, he kept back part of the money for himself and brought the rest and put it at the Apostles' feet. So, Miss Cindy, now we see how is the Scriptures shining a light on Ananias and Sapphira. They were following an established practice that other people had already done, but they did it a little differently. They kept back some of the money that they made from this sale and gave the rest to the Apostles. Now, at face value, Leslie, there is nothing wrong with that. But we are going to see that there is something majorly wrong with the way they give it to the Lord. So, let's go forward. What's next? Bad motives lead to sinful worship. Bad motives lead to sinful worship. Then Peter said, how is it that Satan has so filled your heart that you have lied to the Holy Spirit and have kept for yourself some of the money you received for the land? Stop. There is a lot going on in this question. Okay? And I voiced Peter totally wrong because in my mind, he is a backwards redneck fisherman. But, that is for another day. Then Peter said, Ananias, how is it, Heather, that Satan has so filled your heart that you have lied to the Holy Spirit and kept some of the money you received for the land? So, what is Peter pointing out? Peter is pointing out two very important things. Number one, Ananias and Sapphira's actions are lying by definition. There is no mistaking what Peter is saying. He is saying, Kippe, you could have kept the money and said, here, Apostles, here is 80% of the money I received from selling my land. I need to square some other things away. Like, I'll be honest right now. Anybody who wants to go sell something and give 80% of it to the church, I think that's awesome. Darrell, I mean fair? And if you would willingly and knowingly said, listen, I had some business affairs, some things I needed to take care of, but the rest of it I willingly want to give to the Lord. Here is 80% of what I made. Would that be deceptive? No. So, how is it deceptive? He kept the money back but claimed he sold the land for less. So, let's say somebody out there sells a property and let's just call it 100 grand, right? So, you sell a $100,000 property, you give 80,000 of it to the church. Miss Stacy, there is nothing wrong with that. If you told everyone up front, it was a $100,000 piece of property. But when you come to the church and say, I sold my $80,000 piece of property, here is all the money. That's what they are doing. He is saying, no, no, no, no. In fact, I think it was my daughter, my daughter Zola, who probably won't watch this, so I'll say this. She told me the other day, she said, you know how, the secret, ladies, I'm going to let you in, this is wisdom from a 16-year-old girl, right? How do you always have people compliment you on your age and how you look? You know how to tell everybody you are eight years older than you really are. How do I always get compliments on how I look? Oh, you look great for 55. I know, isn't that great? Of course, unfortunately, I have the gray hair to pull that off. But Ananias is lying about the total that he made off the property. That is why Peter is able to say to him, Satan has so filled your heart. So now, Dave, we've got to ask the obvious question. What does Ananias get out of lying about the property? One word, gospel according to Aretha Franklin, R-E-S-P-E-C-T. He wants every, right? I'm not going to sing it, unfortunately. It's the wrong key for me. But he wants everyone to think he gave it all when in reality he didn't. He wants all of y'all's church people to see, did you see Don Brewster? I mean, I talked to that realtor. He done gave all that money he made off his back 40. You know, he is a blessed and godly man. That's what he wants. He wants the accolades. He wants to be equal to Barnabas and the other unnamed individuals. Barnabas is not the only person who gave property in Acts chapter 4. Go back and read it. There are other people who've done this. Ananias and Sapphira want to be part of the cool kids. Want to be part of the cool kids. But Jeff don't want to make the same sacrifices to get there. They want the easy way out of getting the same respect without giving the same sacrifice. This is how Peter is able to say, Ananias, how is it that Satan has so filled your heart that you have lied to the Holy Spirit, Heather, and have kept some of the money you received for the land? Didn't it belong to you before it was sold? And after it was sold, wasn't the money at your disposal? What made you think of doing such a thing? You have not lied just to humans, but to God. Because you're saying, Lord. Now here's what's funny. Linda, is it actually humanly possible to lie to God? Like just, I mean, come on. Just process that for a second with me, Kim. Can you actually bring an offering to God? Like Jeff, you got an offering envelope in the pew in front of you? Here, give it to me for a second. Here we go. Let's make an example, right? I'm going to write my offering check. I'm going to put it in this envelope. God, you are not sovereign enough to actually see what I'm giving. So that's exactly what he just did. He said, God, you're not sovereign enough. You're not powerful enough. You're not knowledgeable enough to know what I'm actually going to give. So I'm going to get one over on you. I'm going to get one over on you. And what am I going to get out of it? I'm going to get the respect of all the people, Bill. Everybody's going to think I'm like one of those cool guys who sacrifices everything. And Peter says, dude, you've not just lied to us as people. You tried to lie to God. So what happens? Right worship is a corporate expectation. Here's the other thing I think people always get wrong about the Ananias. It's the fire story. Watch this. Verses five and six. When Ananias heard this, he fell down dead. He fell down and died. And great fear seized all who heard what had happened. Then some young men came forward, wrapped his body and carried him out. So now, Chris, you know what I just learned? Whatever this exchange was, it happened in a public arena, which further supports the understanding that Ananias' gift wasn't about worshiping God. It was about the credits. It was about the accolades. It was about Miss Margarita. I need everybody to see me giving. So Peter takes this opportunity, you know, moved by the Holy Spirit. And he's going to teach a lesson not only to Ananias, who learns it in the most severe of circumstance, but he's also going to teach the rest of the church. See, this is the Holy Spirit teaching the entire church what is and is not good about worship. When Ananias heard this, he fell down and died. I don't think there's a bigger whoo that just happened. You know what I mean? Like thankfully, our church is blessed to have multiple medically trained personnel in our church. If there were to be a medical emergency, we have plans in place to help with those things. We have people who used to work on ambulances. We have nurses in-house. We have an entire med ops protocol being written. I don't know that they had any of that in the first century, Dave. They also didn't have the hospital like a half shake away. You know, when you guys decide to have a heart attack, we're like super close. We'll get you there. But all of a sudden, Ananias, I mean, just picture that, Heather, Ananias brings up an offering. He gives it to the Lord. Peter calls him out and boom, Peter's gone. And then Peter, I mean, excuse me, Ananias is gone. And now Peter uses it to teach the whole church. Like Ashley, what would you do? I'm going to ask Chris to come up here and give an offering. And he dies right here in front of the church. I'm pretty sure Peter's got everybody's attention. You know what I mean? Like if you were sleeping, you just woke up. If you just watched this go down and then an entire lesson is able to be taught to the church. A great fear seized all who heard what had happened. Now, great fear. Brian, the word fear in English, we almost always associate it with negative things, right? I'm afraid of scary stuff, right? Exactly, Noah. The word fear in Greek also includes awe and reverence. So when we read this, a great fear. Yeah, guess what, Miss Ilona? I'd be a little afraid to make sure I was right with my offerings. You know what I mean? But why would I be afraid of that? Not because I am a fearful of Peter, but because I have an awe and a reverence for the God who is judging my heart as I am worshiping him. It's not just a fear like Halloween afraid. It is an internal sense of this God is so great and so powerful and so awesome and so knowledgeable. And then we could go into all of the omnis, omnipresent, omniscient, omni benevolent. He's so wonderfully so great. He's so big. That Jeff, I do have a legitimate fear and awe. We almost use the word awesome a little much, like of course being a child of the 80s, totally awesome, bro. The word awesome almost got a little played out, a little worn out when having awe about something is a real deal. I mean, I have never personally met any sitting president of the United States. Never personally done that. When I was a kid, took a tour of the White House, went and saw the Statue of Liberty. I have to admit I would be a little intimidated if I met any any sitting president during their term or afterwards. I've never met someone of that like stature. I mean, like the coolest person I know is Chris, you know, so, you know, I'll let you I'll let you interpret what that means for my social life later. But I mean, to be fair, and Ken, you guys are the highest ranking military personnel I've ever met in my life. To me, that's really cool. But that's the most important person I've ever met. I think there'd be a little bit of awe if I met some I mean, never met the Queen of England. I would be a little in awe if I had to meet the Queen of England. Why? Because I have a lot of respect and reverence for that position, you know, and therein lies this word. A great fear seized all who heard what had happened. We are not afraid of the God we worship. But I should also say maybe we shouldn't be so comfortable with him that we don't have a reverence for who he is. You know, I'm saying there's there's a balance here. Jesus is absolutely the lover of my soul. But God the Father is the creator and judge of the universe. So let's not be so familiar with Christ that we forget the awe and reverence of our creator, our sustainer. So great fear sees all who heard. Then some of the young men came forward, wrapped his body and carried him out. So the other thing I just learned, Heather, is if one of y'all strokes out, we are not stopping church. That's what they just did. Tyler, grab a couple of young men. Get this cat out of here. I got more of a sermon to preach. Moving on. So the next thing, right worship is a family experience. Chip, I got to say this is another point that I don't think it's born out enough in the Ananias. It's a fiery story. Let's take a look at verses seven through nine. About three hours later, how many of y'all will be OK if I just kept on preaching for another three and a half hours? Right, Zach, we're still in church three hours later. Praise Jesus. We have a shorter service plan, right? About three hours later, his wife came in. Now, what's his wife's name? Sapphire. Just make sure everybody's tracking. Now, wherever Sapphire was, she is unaware of what has transpired. So we as the reader, Miss Cindy, we as the reader have already been given certain knowledge via Peter and the Holy Spirit and Luke of what has happened. Wherever Sapphire was, she is unaware of what just happened with Ananias. So at this point, Sapphire hasn't done anything wrong, but she's about to step in it big time. Peter asks her, asks who? Ask Sapphire. Tell me, what is the price you and Ananias paid for that land? Yes, she said. That is the price. Or is this the price you and Ananias paid for that? She said, Yeah, that's it. So did Ananias just commit the same? I mean, did Sapphire just commit the same lie as her husband? Yes. They're claiming the property is worth less than it really was because they took some off the top. Right. How many people think it would be appropriate for me to just take the loose cash in this offering and put it in my pocket right now? That's exactly what they did. And they took an offering to the Lord, kept some for themselves. Right. There's another reason that this sits up in front of the church the whole time. Nobody can accuse anybody in this room of being inappropriate with it because it all sits here in front of everybody. We all know where it is. But this is exactly what Ananias and Sapphire did. We decided I'm going to give to the Lord. I'm going to give all of that. But I'm going to claim it's everything. So now she steps in it makes the same exact mistake. Peter says to her, How could you conspire to test the spirit of the Lord? Now, that sentence tells me two things, Clyde. Number one, Ananias and Sapphire worked together on this deception. We find that all the way at the very beginning with his wife's full knowledge. And here Peter via the Holy Spirit says, How could you conspire? Here's the second thing. The attitude and culture of worship in Ananias and Sapphire's marriage found this move acceptable. They're doing the same thing. They're doing it together. They're doing it like on one hand I got to say, Guess what, Miss Ilona? At least husband and wife are working together. It's a shame we couldn't work together for righteousness. It's a shame we couldn't work together to draw each other closer to God. More led by the Holy Spirit. But whatever the worship culture is that's in Ananias and Sapphire's home, they're both okay with this deception. Now that's a big warning for all of you parents, all of you married couples, all of you grandparents. The worship culture that you set in your home is what your children find will be their guide in life. President Lincoln said the attitude of the classroom in one generation is the attitude of the government in the next. I could say the same thing to you. The attitude about Christ in your dining room table when your children are young is the attitude the church will have about Christ when your children become the people up here. So what kind of worship culture are you setting at home? Now granted, you could go ahead and blame the fact that I'm the preacher and I'm also going to school. So Amanda, we have every single kind of theological conversation at our dining room table. Two weeks ago it was justification and adoption. The week before that it was the extent of the enemy's authority and demonic activity in the life of the Christian believer. Like we have some legit crazy conversations in my house. Hopefully I'm not the only person having those kinds of conversations in my house. You know what I mean? But what I have come to understand from this is Ananias and Sapphira were both okay with this kind of deceptive worship. They decided on it together. They worked it out together. Chris, at least they're working together. So let's not throw the baby out with the bath water. They did work together, but they didn't have anybody that came alongside of them and said, Kim, is that really the way you guys want to go down? Is that really the way you want to do it? Like nobody could have came to them and said, Chip, I know you want to be a leader. I know you want to be seen. But just be honest. Where was the friend that pushed the integrity button in their life and said, hey, just give the 80 and call it 80. Everyone will just respect you enough to be true. I would honestly say I would respect the guy who gave 80 almost more than 100 because he had the guts to tell the truth. Guess what? Darrell, maybe you got to pay off a little bit of that extra move that just brought you back stateside. Welcome home, by the way. So maybe you needed a little bit of that 20 percent to get you back from Abu Dhabi. That's cool, man. That's cool. You gave all that you were able and also took care of your family. I can respect that. But the attitude in which Ananias and Safira had was unacceptable in their marriage. Finally, look at this revival leads to renewed reverence versus 10 and 11 revival leads to renewed reverence. At the moment, she fell down at his feet and died. Then the young men came in and finding her dead, carried her out and buried her beside her husband. And great. Yeah. I mean, way to way to get a little cardio in for the day. Let's just go bury a married couple. Great, great fear. That is not a ministry plan, by the way. Don't take that one little quote out of my sermon and think that that's the takeaway for today. It's not. Great fear sees the whole church and all who heard about these events. Again, we've already talked about the word fear. It doesn't just mean scary. I run away Halloween afraid. It means great awe, great reverent reverence for who? Reverence for Almighty God and the way he desires to be worshiped. That's where this story comes to its conclusion. Who's the lesson really for the global church? Ananias and Sapphira happened to be the people that God chose to use as the lesson. But Miss Lisa, this lesson still for us today. God does not want to be deceptively worshiped. God does not want you to brag about your tithing. Just stepped on everybody's toes. Nobody. Amen. That one. God doesn't want you to brag about how much you gave to dare to chair. God wants you to give in your heart what you have settled to give. Give it honestly. Give it with integrity and get off. We still have this problem today. You know, there are churches, obviously not ours, because like I said, we are the perfect church. Thank you for joining us online. Our perfection does come through the phone and it makes whatever space you're currently sitting watching this in also perfect. So amen for you. But there are churches when they collect their offering, they call out dollar amounts, right? And people come forward to give this dollar amount. Then people come forward to give this dollar amount. Then people come forward to give this dollar amount. That's totally the wrong atmosphere. That's giving so that other people see you give. Not give when your left hand does not know what your right hand is doing. We should not interpret from this passage that we should not give sacrificially to the Lord. Zach, give sacrificially with integrity. Don't sacrifice your integrity while giving sacrificially. Choose what you're going to give. And Ms. Margarita, don't be focused on who's going to respect you because of that gift. Give it to the Lord and let him respect you and be out. Okay? So what's the takeaway? How do we bring this forward to today? Here's your takeaway. The motives of our heart will affect our families and our churches' worship quality. If we want to experience revival at the corporate level, the seeds must be cultivated at the personal and family levels first. I've said it before and I'll say it again. Parents, my wife and I do everything we can do. She just looked at me and waved. It was awesome. It was a little me moment. You guys can't see through the window, but we have this like perfect little lineup so when she's at her pulpit and I'm at mine, I can see it. We're working our butts off to grow the church, right? But my wife and I only get 75 minutes with your family a week. And we're singing for some of that. You know? We only get, Anita, we only get this little bit of time, uno poquito tempiempo, in order to pour into you the spiritual juice. It's going to get that gas tank to help carry you throughout the week. That's why we have Wednesday Bible study so you can come back and get the tank topped off. Be excited about growing in Christ. And if you do not create a culture in your home and with your family in which spiritual things are discussed, Ms. Shelby, I can't do enough in one sermon on a Sunday to overcome the culture that you create at home. That's why it's so important that the body of Christ works together throughout the week. That you have these interpersonal friendships that you can text and call your Christian friends and be like, Oh my dear goodness, I am going through, fill in the blank, will somebody please talk to me? I can only do so much from here, but I'll tell you this, and I'll use an example that my mentor has used quite often. And I promised I was going to do this with the worship team, so I will still do it, but it's very applicable. One Sunday morning, early on in my ministry career, my mentor, Pastor Rick, who is still the most amazing godly man I've ever known, was the worship pastor. I was the assistant worship pastor. He came in on Sunday morning with clear solo cups, and he lined up a bunch of clear solo cups on the table, and then he had a pitcher of water. And he put a little bit of water in all the solo cups, and in one solo cup he put salt, in one solo cup he put pepper, in one solo cup he put some dirt from outside, in one solo cup he dropped like a jalapeno. I mean it was like a whole bunch of stuff. And at this point you're all going, has Bill lost it? I promise there's a point. Then he handed all these cups to each of us. And then the pitcher that he originally poured the water from was empty because he had put it in all the cups. And then he handed our cups to each of us, and he said, I want you to take your cup, and I want you to pour it back in the pitcher. Because when we get up here to work together as a team, Miss Leslie, we're each putting in whatever we've been into that week. We're each putting in what we brought to church, and that's the soup that we pour out to everybody else. And then after we put everything in the big pitcher, and so you've got the salt and you've got the pepper and you've got the jalapeno, then he poured the cups back out. And he said, who wants a drink? He said, Dave, it doesn't really matter what you brought. It's getting poured out across everybody. It doesn't really matter what I brought. It's getting poured out across everybody. I'll say this, Miss Ilona, I cannot be the sole individual proprietor of God moving at Reedswood. I'm not big enough, and I'm a big dude. You know? I'm not big enough. I'm not strong enough. I'm not, can I say, I'm not holy enough for me to be the only cause of revival in our church. Is that like cool for me to say as the pastor? I'm not holy enough. But Anita, what you do in your week comes to church with you, and that's part of who we are as a church. And Miss Leslie, what you do in your week comes here on Sunday morning, and that's part of who we are as a church. If we want to experience revival at this corporate level, then guess what? It has to start in your individual and family levels. Just like Ananias and Sapphira's worship culture started at home and it affected the lesson at church, what if it was the other way around? What if, parents, you are worshiping with your kids at home? Reading the scriptures at home? Doing devotionals together at home? Wouldn't that greatly change their expectation of what church is like? You'd have a hard time stopping the youth group from getting together, because they'd understand what it means to grow in faith at that really harsh preteen and teen level. So as we close out our Worthless Worship series, I hope I haven't discouraged you from worship, but I do want to discourage you from worshiping wrong.