Good morning, Readswood family and extended Facebook guests. Welcome to Readswood. My name is Bill and we are just getting ready to start our teaching this morning. And so I was supposed to begin a brand new series today. And Mr. Pete, I say was because given the climate and what is going on in our country, I'm taking an audible out of my normal playbook. And Mr. Skippy, normally I like to plan the entire year's worth of sermons, ensure that you're going to get fed a good round biblical meal of Old Testament, New Testament, doctrine, Christian living, family. But today I'm going to put that aside because with everything that is going on in our country and the main reason there are many of our families staying at home, I want to revisit and look at the way our Savior looks at illness. There is a lot of worry in our country today. There is a lot of fear. In some there may even be panic on what is going on. How do we deal with it? So I want to take just a few moments to look at how our Savior dealt with sickness and with illness. Because I think it is important and I've said it several times this past week, Skippy, I think it is important that in times of crisis we remind our community of who Christ is. And we are His representatives until the day that He is elected that we don't know about, Megan, but there's going to come a day when Jesus returns and then He gets to remind everybody for Himself. But until that day we have to carry that responsibility to be the hands and feet and yes, also the mouth and repeat the words of Jesus. So this morning I want to take a page out of our book. We will get back to our Cultivating Stewardship series another day. But for today I want us to jump into the Gospel of Matthew and examine Jesus the Healer. So the title of my message this morning is entitled Jesus the Healer. Turn my little on. And here's the key thought that I want everyone to experience. One of the prophetic missions of Jesus, the Messiah, is to heal us from sickness and disease. And I reworked that sentence several times. One of the prophetic, meaning it was prophesied about Him before His birth. It was prophesied about Him before the 400 years of intertestamental silence. It was prophesied about the Messiah that He would have a ministry to heal us from sickness and disease. So if you're looking for the text for our sermon this morning, we are in the Gospel of Matthew. I invite you to turn or tap with me to chapter 8. Matthew chapter 8. Now to give a little background before we get into Matthew chapter 8, Miss Kim, I think it's important that you know about Matthew chapter 6 and 7. If you have one of those Bibles where Jesus' words are printed in red, you know, old school saints we call that a red letter Bible because there's red letters in the Bible. That's a real confusing term. If you happen to have a red letter Bible, you're going to notice that chapter 6 and 7, there's a lot of red, right? Those of you who are looking at it, there's a lot of red there. Because chapter 6 and 7 are Matthew's recording of Jesus' famous sermon on the mount. So Jesus goes up on a high place and He teaches a large group of people. And it is, Robert's now been called the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus was not preaching about mountains, but He was speaking from an elevated platform. And the Sermon on the Mount, if I could just briefly boil it, the Sermon on the Mount is lifestyle Christianity. It is Jesus during His earthly ministry teaching us how to live to be a part of His kingdom. Why is that important? Because Christian, we've said it several times. When Matthew, or also known as, anybody know his other name, his Jewish name? Starts with an L. Levi. Levi. Matthew and Levi, they're both the same character. And so, the tax collector became a disciple of Jesus. 6 and 7 are Jesus' establishment of lifestyle Christianity in the kingdom. Here we enter into chapter 8, and He is now going to offer proof of His authority to speak on the lifestyle of the kingdom of God. So Rob, the reason I want you to understand 6 and 7, 6 and 7 are what Jesus taught about the kingdom of God, how we ought to live, super important. But today I want to focus on how Jesus established His authority. Yeah, all that stuff I just said, yeah, this is why I'm good for that. All that stuff I just said about being a member of the kingdom of God, Ken, this is how you're going to know it's really me. So let's take a look at the setting here. In Matthew's Gospel, the following scenes take place after Jesus delivers His famous Sermon on the Mount. After speaking at length of the way subjects in the new kingdom of God would live, Jesus established His authority as the Messiah through a series of healings. And that's very important, through a series of healings. So here's the first point I'd like to make, and then we're going to start walking into Matthew chapter 8. First, Jesus healed up close and personal. Jesus healed up close and personal. Let's take a look at the first three verses of Matthew chapter 8. When He came down from the mountainside, large crowds followed Him. A man with leprosy came and knelt before Him and said, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. Jesus reached out His hand and touched the man. I am willing, He said, be clean. Immediately, He was cured of His leprosy. Now, Ken, I just want to take these three verses first. What you're going to notice in this chapter is there are three portraits of Jesus healing. Something I think you really ought to notice is the location in which all of these healings take place. So where's this first one? He came down from the mountainside. Well, which mountainside? The mountainside He was on while He taught for the last two chapters. When He comes down from that place, He comes across this man. Now, this man is not given a name, but the detail we are told about him, Linda, is that he is a leper or he suffers from leprosy. Now, in the first century when they wrote, Ken, they didn't have the same medical knowledge that we have today as far as what is leprosy. So they would have taken any skin illness, psoriasis. My daughter has eczema. They would have taken any sort of rash or skin sickness and interpreted it as leprosy. We today have a little bit better understanding medically of what leprosy is. But what they did have in this first century time period was a major distancing or social distancing factor for all who had leprosy. If you had leprosy, Stacy, you can sleep out of town. Like we're going to ask that you, for the sake of all of us, because we don't know where your Stacy level cooties came from, we're going to ask that you keep your Stacy cooties out there. If you want your kids to come and visit you, that's totally cool. And I think this is very applicable for today. When our government is shutting down schools and they're telling us to keep distance away from people, here it is in the Bible. They were doing this. They were creating social distance because of disease, because of transmission of disease. What does Jesus do? Number one, I want you to notice the leprous man came to Jesus. Linda, a man with leprosy came and knelt before him. Who him? Jesus. So this man with leprosy, Devin, comes up to Jesus and kneels before him. At this point, still hasn't touched him, but is definitely in the three to six foot social distancing bubble. What does Jesus do? The leper says, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. This illustrates the leper's faith. Who is he putting his faith in? He's putting his faith in Jesus for the byproduct of healing. His faith was not for healing. It was in Christ for healing. He comes to Christ and says, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. And now Jesus does the unthinkable. Jesus reached out his hand and touched. He reached out his hand and touched the man that his culture said needed to be socially distanced by six feet. And what does he say? Very simple. I am willing. Be clean. So Jesus's twofold pronouncement is in direct response to the leper's twofold request. First, he says, Lord, if you are willing, meaning, Pete, God, Jesus is still capable of healing, even if he chooses not to. That's what the leper is saying. Even if you choose not to heal me, I recognize you are capable of that healing. Jesus responds to his faith in the same two-part process. One, I am willing. And now I'm going to show you how willing I am. I'm going to reach out and touch you. So here's the million dollar question. Can sin and disease make the holy savior dirty in any way? No, it cannot. Can the holy, righteous, messiah son of God make illness, sickness, disease, and sin eradicated? Absolutely. And this is what Matthew is establishing here. Remember, Jesus just taught for two whole chapters on how do we live as the kingdom of God. And now I'm going to establish for you why I am the messiah who gets to make these rules. And the first thing we see here, Jesus is still not even done. Like, he's not gone back. There's no lunch break yet, Ken. We get out of preaching church. I walk out in the parking lot and boom, get hit with somebody. Jesus hasn't taken a break. He's not like taking a fiber with his disciples, you know, putting their feet in the sand and cooking up some fish. Ministry still hasn't stopped yet. He just taught, taught, taught, and now he's healing. Let's keep going forward. What happens next? Jesus cared about the testimony of God. The testimony of God. Watch this, Matthew 8, chapter 4. Then Jesus said to him, So see that you don't tell anyone, which I know that seems super odd for Jesus, right? See that you don't tell anyone, but show yourself to the priest and offer the gift Moses commanded as a testimony to them. Now, I believe that Jesus is the incarnate Son of God. I believe that Jesus is the promised Jewish Messiah in fulfillment of the Old Testament. I also believe almost everybody who lived in his day didn't get those two things. Right? Kippie, we get the advantage. We're reading the written word of God. Thousands of years after the resurrection of Christ is a historically verified event. These people are living in the day. He's just some weird Nazarean, you know, synagogue preacher who's all of a sudden started to do some funky stuff. And if you want to look, the historical record outside of the Bible absolutely establishes Jesus ministered with supernatural powers. In fact, in the Greco-Roman records, he is referred to as a sorcerer because they could not explain where his supernatural ministry came from. Here, Jesus says, Listen, Pete, I am super glad you're no longer a leper. But do me a favor. Don't go tell everybody about it. Go and worship. Who is ultimately the leper's healing from? Jesus as God. Go and worship. Offer the appropriate sacrifice, which is in obedience to the law, which was still a thing at this time. Go worship. Offer a sacrifice. Why? Because with Cindy, that's the testimony to the priests. Jesus wanted this man who had now been healed by his faith to be a testimony to others of who God really is. So Jesus does an act of ministry and then almost deputizes this guy to now go and do ministry. You've been healed. You've been redeemed. Now go offer the appropriate sacrifice. Be obedient to the law, but also be a testimony to the priests and those in Jerusalem. So let's keep going forward. Next, Jesus heals Jews and Gentiles. Now this is big considering we're studying the Gospel of Matthew. Anybody remember those of you who took the introduction to the Gospel class in Reidswood University? Does anybody remember what Matthew's main thesis statement about Jesus is? The promised Messiah. And who is the intended audience of the Book of Matthew? Jewish. Jewish people. To see that Jesus is their Messiah. Ken, when you understand that, seeing the fact that what Jesus is about to throw down right here, big deal considering it's in a Jewish focused book. Take a look at this. Let me go back. We are in Matthew chapter eight verses five to nine. Matthew eight, five to nine. When Jesus had entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him asking for help. Lord, he said, my servant lies at home paralyzed and in terrible suffering. Jesus said to him, I will go and heal him. The centurion replied, Lord, I do not deserve to have you come under my roof, but just say the word and my servant will be healed. He goes on, for I myself am a man under authority with soldiers under me. I tell this one go and he goes. I tell that one come and he comes. I say to my servant, do this and he does it. Now let me go back and break this down a little bit. First, now Jesus has left the mountainside. Where is he now? Capernaum. Does anybody from Wednesday night remember where the city of Capernaum is? It is in the northern part. It's in Galilee. It is right on the body of water there that's got three different names. Anybody? Sea of Galilee, Sea of Tiberius, Lake of Gennesaret. All three describe the same body of water. Capernaum is right there. And as we're about to discover, Capernaum is also the hometown of a very, very important disciple and apostle. It is also the center of Jesus' Galilean ministry. So when Jesus ministers in Galilee, the breadth of his ministry is done out of this city. Capernaum. Now Kippe, that explains why is a Roman centurion coming to a Jewish rabbi for healing. That's the question we have to ask when we get into the first sentence. When Jesus had entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him and asking for help. Now who is a centurion? Centurion is a military officer in the Roman military in command of how many troops? A hundred. That's right. Way to go, girl. Way to get your Bible right. So a centurion is in command of 100 soldiers, hence the term. This is not, Rob, you call it non-rate, right? That's the way down low people. This is not a non-rate. I mean, argue if I was going to talk to an army officer. I don't even think this is in the NCO territory. I think this is probably low ranking officer. I mean, definitely big deal. I mean, like Ken Larson style big deal. You know what I'm saying? Like this guy is in charge of 100 people and is in charge of the security of the town of Capernaum. This is not a low ranking dude who's just some boot polisher in the Roman military. This is a influential man. This is a influential man. And this influential military good looking man, just like Senor Larson, comes to Jesus and says his first word, Lord. I just heard somebody say it. In the Greek that word is kurios. You know what kurios means? Miss Linda, it means one who has authority over me. That is a Greek word specifically denoting that Mr. Pete, I recognize I am speaking to someone whose authority outranks my own. Now that word could be used to address a magistrate, a judge, a king, clearly obviously Caesar. But in the military context, who's the man saying this? He is a military soldier. For him to use the word kurios, he knows what he is saying. He is saying, Miss Kippe, I recognize you as Christ, whoever you are. Your authority is greater than mine. And of course that will play into his response to Jesus here in a moment. He says kurios, or Lord, my servant. Stop. Now look at the relationship again between the Roman centurion. Who is he speaking about? He is speaking about someone who he has authority over. He is speaking to Jesus who he feels that he is under authority of. Speaking of a servant who is over authority of. My servant lies home paralyzed in terrible suffering. Now before I even get out of the centurion's first sentence, I've learned his perspective on Jesus. I've learned his relationship to the one who he is requesting and interceding for. And I have also learned that this is a compassionate man. I know that the typical idea of the big buff, broody military man is that they are not compassionate at all. And they are just super, you know, meaty and heady. And of course I've got two men right here in this room who serve in our military who I know personally. And I know that they are not that way. But this man is not that way. He is not just a brutish soldier. Because his request here comes from a place of care, concern, possibly love. But since that word servant, Devon, it can be interpreted a bunch of different ways. The only thing I'm sure about is he is referring to someone of a lesser authority than him. It does not specifically say of a familial relationship. Which might even add to his compassion that, Megan, I'm going to go talk about to this Messiah, this Jesus. He is well informed of who he's got, who's in his house, his heart that he loves. And I love the fact that a high ranking military man comes to a Jewish local rabbi for help. This to me speaks of Jesus' reputation in the city of Capernaum. Jesus says to him, I will go and heal him. Again, do you notice the twofold? I will go and I will heal him. He's responding to both aspects of the centurion's request. And now the centurion really lets it rip. So Kimmy says this, Lord, there's that word, kurios. Kurios, one who is in authority over me, one who is higher ranking than I am. Kurios, I do not deserve to have you come under my roof. Now there's a cultural thing here that I need you to understand. Why does the centurion not deserve for Jesus to come under his roof? Now in our context today, Christian, we know that Jesus is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. The centurion cannot know this yet unless it was revealed by God. God can reveal. But I believe that the purpose of the centurion telling Jesus is you can't come under my roof is partially out of respect for Jesus. But because what would happen if a Jewish rabbi were to walk inside the home of a Gentile soldier? He would become, somebody said it, he would become unclean. Jesus would become ceremonially unclean and then have to go through a cleansing ritual before being allowed into the synagogue and into the temple. The centurion knows this. Miss Stacy, this even doubles down on my theory that the centurion is very well informed about the people who live in Capernaum and the cultural practices of the people that he is governing. He does not want Jesus to come into his house because of what the house would do to Jesus, not Jesus due to the house. He wants to respect Jesus enough. He says, Miss Linda, I do not deserve for you to make yourself unclean just to heal my servant. That's what he's actually saying. I do not deserve for you to spend that much of your cleanliness to heal my servant who is hurting. I don't deserve that. And then here's where his faith comes in. But just say the word and my servant will be healed. And then he explains it. He talks about authority. I myself am a man under authority. He's already put himself under Christ's authority by using Koriath twice with the soldiers under me. I tell this one go and go. I tell us when come and he comes. He has a very clear understanding couched in his military terminology that Jesus has the authority over illness, even when the illness is not present to the Savior. And this is a Gentile. This is not a Jew. Rob, this is not somebody who grew up going to temple, who grew up memorizing the Torah. This is not someone who lives according to Jewish law. This is not someone who is a part of God's chosen covenant people. But this cat has down Jesus's authority over illness that even when that illness is not present in proximity to Christ, it is still subject to the words of Christ. Now, how does that play for us today? Very simple. Our intercession through Christ does not need to be present to be effective. Let me say that again. Our intercession through Christ does not need to be present to be effective. When we call upon the name of Jesus in our prayers, we are accessing an authority level, as the centurion put it, who is above, so to speak, the authority level. Above sickness and illness and death. When you pray for our community, for your family members, those of you who are joining us on Facebook, if you sat in your living room and prayed with the name of Jesus, you are accessing an authority level that is higher and greater than sickness and illness. So let's go forward. Come on. No? All right. Take me forward one, please. Yep. There it is. Jesus foresaw the age of faith healing division. Now, this is Jesus's reply. You know, Centurion Larson has this amazing outburst of there in Capernaum speaking to Jesus. Jesus replies by foreseeing the age when faith will heal division. This is eight. This is chapter eight, verses 10 through 13. When Jesus heard this, heard what, Aaron, when he heard the centurion's comment about faith and words, when Jesus heard this, he was astonished and said to those following him, stop. Who are those following him? Are they Jews or are they Gentiles? Where did Jesus just come from? Sermon on the Mount. Who's the sermon on the Mount to? Jews. So who is the crowd that is following Jesus right now? Jews. You tracked me on that, right? Six, seven, Jesus's sermon on the Mount. He comes down from the Mount, meets the leper, makes it into Capernaum. People are still following him from his sermon in six and eight, six and seven. And now he addresses a Jewish audience and says, I tell you the truth. I have not found anyone in Israel with such great faith. How do you think that made all of the local Jews feel at that moment? Right? That's a drop the mic. I'm out kind of saying. I have not found such great faith in all Israel. I say to you that many will come from east and the west who will take their places at the feast of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. But the subjects of the kingdom will be thrown outside into the darkness where there will be weakening and gnashing of teeth. Then Jesus said to the centurion, go and it will be done as you believed it would. And his servant was healed at that very hour. Let's rewind because now we're getting into some Jewish eschatology. I want to unpack this for you. So Jesus is blown away by the faith of this Roman military Gentile. And he tells the people following him, aka the Jews from the Mount sermon on the Mount, that I have not found faith like this in all of Israel, which had to sting just a little. Then he says this. I say to you many will come from the east and west will take their places at the feast of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. What is that? That is the wedding feast of the lamb that is to take place in the book of Revelation. Now, later on this year, we're going to go through Revelation all again. It was one of the most requested sermon topics of the year. I think it's like October timeframe. We're going to go through the events of the end of days. What I need to understand right now is there is a promised wedding feast from the book of Revelation where God's will recollect his people. That includes the covenant nation of Israel and the Church of Jesus Christ. And there will be a wedding celebration when the culmination of Christ's redemptive work is complete. That is what he is referring to. His Jewish audience understands the feast of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. They know what that means. So I need you to know what it means. What happens? The Jews are now also first century. Kippi, they don't understand yet that Gentiles are going to be a part of the kingdom, but they're getting a hard fast on the jaw lesson from the Savior himself. I tell you from the east and the west will take their places at the feast of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. But the subjects of the kingdom will be thrown outside. Who are the subjects of the kingdom? Jews. When this wedding feast comes, what y'all don't get is my wedding feast is going to be a feast of faith like this. He had the faith that made him one of my subjects. That there will come a time where there will be a division. Because most in first century, most of them just assumed they would automatically be given entrance into Abraham's kingdom because of their genetic background. They didn't realize what Jesus is saying here is whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, what we now know. The church of Jesus Christ will be comprised of both Jew and Gentile. That God's grace is always meant to be poured out on all mankind. And that salvation will be given to all nationalities, not just national Israel. So he chides the Jewish audience who's following him, then turns to the centurion and says, go ahead. It will be done as you believed it would. And his servant was healed at that very hour. One big thing I want to point out here, whose faith healed the centurion's servant? The centurions did. Don't miss that. Whose faith just healed that living person, not that person's faith. The faith of the person who sought the Savior for their healing. Another powerful illustration of the way we as the body of Christ ought to respond to our community in this day and age. Your faith is enough in Christ to heal someone. Your faith is enough in Christ to heal someone else other than just yourself. Now, doesn't that make the healing still subject to the will of God? Absolutely. I'm not saying that we get to pray and bend God's arm and make him do. But I've got a clear biblical example of someone else's faith healing a third party through Christ. Make no mistake, I believe God is just as powerful today. Here, Jesus healed proving his messianic credentials. This is verses 14-17. When Jesus came to Peter's house, he saw Peter's mother-in-law lying in the bed with a fever. Stop. Just in case you didn't know that Peter was married, there it is in black and white in the Gospel of Matthew. What's the only way Peter has a mother-in-law? If he were married. So, in case anybody ever wonders and tries to pull over on you that all of the church fathers were unmarried single servants like Paul, I can prove to you biblically, Peter had a wife. So when Jesus came to Peter's house, he saw Peter's mother-in-law lying in bed with a fever. He touched her hand and the fever left her and she got up and she began to wait on them. Stop. Ladies, I'm sure this probably grates at you a little bit. So let me explain what Matthew is saying here. Megan, he is not saying that a woman's place is to wait tables. That's not what he's saying. By the mother-in-law, you have to think about what was her place in the home. They said it is Peter's home, but his mother-in-law is there. That means it's Peter and his wife's job to run the home and to support and care for his wife's mother. What is her role in the home? To help care for guests. Her waiting on people is not saying that ladies, your only job should be to cook and clean for your husband. That's not what that says. What that says is culturally, this is Peter's home. Peter is providing protection and sustenance for his mother's wife until her life is extended. What is the mother-in-law's only role in the house? To be taken care of and to show hospitality to others. That is what Peter's mother-in-law's position in the family was supposed to be, and that is exactly what she does. What does that say, Kipi? Her healing was total and instant, all the way back to a restored relationship, where should she be in her culture and her family? This is not a progressive healing. This is not a, I'm going to rub this on your eyes and then go wash in the pool of Siloam. This is not, take two Jesus pills and call me on Tuesday. This is immediate, full, total bodily healing so that she regained her position in the home and her role to care for guests. Then what happened? When evening came, come back over here, when evening came, many who were demon possessed were brought to him. And he drove out spirits with a word and healed all the sick. And here's where we wrap it out. This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah. He took up our infirmities and carried our diseases. Keep in mind, that was written likely more than 600 years before Jesus was ever born. The Hebrew Bible, through the Old Testament prophets, prophesied that the coming Messiah, who we now know as Jesus of Nazareth, Jesus Christ, Isaiah said it then, he took up our infirmities and carried our diseases. Miss Stacy, one of the symbols that was supposed to tell us who the Messiah is, is his ability to heal the sick. If they needed that symbol to know who the Messiah is, then Kim, I gotta say we need that symbol to remember who our Messiah is. If he came from Isaiah and said, listen, this how you gon' know, Christian, first century shoemaker, go for it. This how you gon' know when your Messiah shows up. When brother starts laying hands to healing folk, you better listen to him. That's the New International Bill version of Isaiah. Isaiah was like a street level prophet. The Old Testament assures us that Jesus came to carry our infirmities and our diseases. Right here in this, this just a small section, we've seen three different instances of Jesus healing. Two by touch and one at a distance by his word. All of them are to establish his messianic credential as the one true chosen Messiah and Savior of God. And he is today the same as he was then and the same when Isaiah wrote it 600 years before he was born. Jesus is the God who heals. And we've been guaranteed from the Old Testament and from the New Testament and the ministry of the church today. I'm not trying to drag all of you into the super Pentecostal realm, but I will say this. I absolutely never stop believing in a God who heals. Not asking everybody to start clucking like ducks and yelling in tongues and falling over the pews. But you better believe in a God who heals because the Bible says that's what he came to do. That was part of his credentials as the Messiah. Why do we as the church not pray for healing more often? I can only come up with two reasons, Rob. One, we're intimidated by the task. And I think that's legitimate. If you've ever walked up to somebody who was sick and put your hands on their body and in the name of Jesus prayed for them to be restored. That's an intimidating prayer. I'll get that. But I think it's only intimidated, Megan, because we believe that it's our prayer that really does anything. If you just give in to the fact that it's always been Jesus, it's always been God who heals. We are just his hands and feet, his words, his servants. We are not his replacements. I carry a vial of anointing oil on my key chain everywhere I go. So that way when I get those last minute calls to go to the hospital or go over Rob at your house even, came over to Rob's house like a year ago. And Jacob was sick. I don't remember why he was sick. But I remember Micah was there with me. And my son, he was I think nine at the time, he came to me and asked for my keys. And I'm like, why does my nine-year-old want my car keys? Because he knew where my oil was. And Micah took that oil out, put it on his thumb, put it on Jacob. And Micah straight prayed for him to be healed right there in the living room. Because I tried to raise my children to believe that God is a God who heals. This is what our culture needs to hear today. While there are graphs and measurements and coronavirus running rampant, it's going to kill everybody. Woo! They're just killing everybody out here. Let me finish, but I'm almost done. And then we can have lunch, I promise. So how do I wrap all of this up for you? Here's your takeaway. Jesus is the promised healer and restorer of the Old Testament. In His earthly ministry, He commanded power of sickness and even death. As Christians, we must remember we serve a risen Savior who has already conquered sickness and rose from the grave. I don't know about the Jesus you came to praise today, but that's my King. The King over death, the King over sickness, the King over illness. Now, does that mean that I am in any way throwing shade at all of our family members who chose to stay home? No, it doesn't. Because you know what the Bible also says? Ken, use wisdom. I am not saying that we take and we bolster our faith in an amazing healing Jesus so that we just rub some dirt on it and pray and be fine. No. I am not saying ignore your wisdom. I'm not saying that if you have someone in your home that needs to be protected from illness. I'm not saying ignore any of that. But I am saying in the midst of that, do not allow the enemy to cast fear on your home, to cast fear on our community. We serve a Jesus who killed sickness and death and rose to prove it. And then sent us a Holy Spirit to give us the ministry of healing. That's our job today. Be the hands and feet of Jesus.