anything else? I hope not because now I got to preach before we get to the fun part of our service. So this morning we begin a brand new teaching series. Those of you who know me, I enjoy teaching in and through series because it gives us the chance not only to look at different topics throughout the year but to spend a little bit of time getting deep into a singular topic. So this, the beginning of our beginning of our year this year is a series entitled required and notice I put around it in me as in Christ until his return and I came up with that. That's not a that's not a quote from anywhere but it's the attitude that I want all of us to embody as we step into this series entitled required and what I mean by that is Mr. West that's which is required of us as Christians. I believe there are certain things in the Bible that we as followers of Christ are required to do. So hopefully everybody brought their big boy and big girl pants this morning because we're starting the year off by looking at what Jesus requires of us. Now the key thought that will wind all of these sermons together is this. When we come to faith in Christ we also commit to live in obedience to his word. Let me say that again. When we come to faith in Christ we also commit to obedience to his word. Now this morning we're going to talk about the requirement of prayer. I think this is an obvious one. Many people in many different faith traditions pray but as I will be speaking from the Bible I believe it is a biblical requirement that Christians have a prayer life. Now if you didn't grow up in church the term prayer life simply means having an active practice of prayer in your daily life. There's not an extra thing there's not like an extra Christian concession stand you have to go to and you buy the prayer life button. No but prayer should be an active part of the daily life of a believer. Now if you have your Bibles with you I'm going to ask that you turn or tap with me to Matthew chapter six. Matthew chapter six today we are going to read verses five through 13. Those of us who grew up in church this may be a familiar passage to some. It is from Jesus's very famous sermon on the mount where Jesus spoke about daily lifestyle Christianity but today specifically we're going to look at verses five through 13 which speak about the topic of prayer. So allow me to read it to you first and then we will start chopping it up. And when you pray this is Jesus speaking on a hillside in Galilee to people who were his followers. And when you pray don't be like the hypocrites for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by others. Truly I tell you they have received their reward in full but when you pray go into your room close the door and pray to your father who is unseen. Then your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. And when you pray don't keep babbling on like the pagans for they think they will be heard because of their many words. Do not be like them for your father knows what you need before you ask him. This then is how you should pray. Our father in heaven hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily bread and forgive our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from the evil one. And that's where I'm going to stop at the passage verses 5 through 13. Jesus himself speaking to those who are eager to hear his teaching on a hillside in Galilee. Later on this year we are having an entire series entitled message from the mount in which we explore the full breadth of Jesus's sermon on the mount. But this morning I would like to give you five things to help you understand personal prayer is a requirement for the Christian life. And here's the first one. Genuine prayer is a required activity. Genuine prayer is a required activity. Let's look at verse 5. And when you pray, stop. I could probably Bryson we can make the whole sermon just those first four words. And when you pray. Jesus did not say and if you pray. The expectation on the first part of that sentence and when you pray. Now let's talk about the idea where is Jesus. He is in first century Galilee. He is speaking to people of Jewish descent. He is teaching them as their messiah. There was an expectation on the part of Jewish society that prayer would be a natural part of the spiritual life. Jesus isn't making something new. He's standing on something very old. Which is the fact that genuine prayer is a required activity for anyone who is in relationship with the God of the universe. That's an Old Testament fact. We can go back to the Shema in Deuteronomy 5 and see how God instructed his people Israel to spend time praying to him. Jesus is not inventing something new for us as Christians. Mr. Jack he's standing on top of something very old and he's saying bro don't forget. By the way when you pray. Not if you pray. Not when you get around to praying. The assumption on the part of the savior is Mr. John we already have active prayer. And now he's helping to guide that prayer. And when you pray. Now notice the point I just said was genuine prayer. I would absolutely submit. Amber I believe there is ungenuine or disingenuous prayer. I believe there's false prayer. And how do we know that? Look at what Jesus defines. First and when you pray. Jason prayer is a required part of your life. Good moving on. Now when you pray do not be like the hypocrites. You ever considered the fact that your prayer life can be hypocritical? Miss Linda Jesus says it can. Jesus makes the point that even in prayer we can fall into hypocrisy. Why? He defines it for us. The people who are hypocrites in their prayer life. They love standing or to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by others. So he gives the action praying on the street corner. Is that bad? No it's not. There's nothing wrong with praying publicly. There's nothing wrong with praying communally. We just did it several times. What's wrong is the motivation behind the action. They're hypocrites because they were standing praying in public to be seen by people. Not be in relationship with God. That's a big difference. I would not stand up here and ever tell you that public prayer is a bad thing. They had public prayer in the Old Testament. Jesus prayed publicly in the New Testament. We follow his example. We pray publicly today. Public prayer is nothing wrong with that. If it's genuine. If it's disingenuous. If the only time you pray is when you're being watched by other people. Parents. It could be watched by your parents or parents watched by your kids either way. If the only time we spend in prayer is when other people are watching us. We are being hypocritical in our prayer life. Our prayers should be genuine. From a heart that says God I want to be in relationship with you. I want to talk to you. I want to know you. I want you to know me. This is the genuine life of prayer. Hypocritical prayer is when we pray concerned about others opinions of us. If the only time I ever prayed was when you were watching me. Don't you think that would undermine my character and legitimacy? Don't you have an assumption that when I come up here and I've got these really really pretty multi-colored notes and I've written out my sermon. Don't you assume that I've prayed over it at least once? Right? Is there an assumption that my character should be not a hypocrite? What if I just bought a sermon and read it and I didn't do any of the studying and I didn't do any of the praying. Then my teaching would be hypocritical because it's not my teaching. When I take the time to make the notes and do the studying and God are we saying the right thing and double check with the elders. Elders are we teaching the right topics? All of that is so that it can be genuine. The first thing I need you to understand is genuine prayer is a required activity. Second, personal prayer should be personal. I know that sounds odd right? Miss Linda, personal prayer it should be personal. Let's take a look at verse six. Notice he says again and when you pray. This is going to be the anthem of this sermon. It comes around a lot. It's like a really good reprise on a Hillsong song. They just don't put it down. And when you pray. Now we're speaking again about an assumed activity. I'm going to be praying and I'm now no longer going to be a hypocrite while I pray. So now Jason I've ruled out what I shouldn't do. Now Jesus focuses in on what I should do. When you pray go into your room close the door and pray to your father who is unseen. Now again let's not take this farther than Jesus's assumption. Are there examples of public prayer in the Old New Testament? Yes. I think of Daniel the prophet while they were exiled. The prophet Daniel was was given a very difficult task which was there was to make the long story really short. Daniel's in the Persian Empire. Persian people want to kill the Jews. They convince um is it not Darius? They convinced whichever one it was Xerxes to declare that nobody's allowed to pray to anything other than the Persian gods. And Daniel had a habit of praying at his window every morning to the Lord God. So now Daniel has a choice. I can disobey the governing authorities in order to obey my father which he does. That's ultimately what gets him thrown into the lion's den by the way. Which then the Lord supernaturally and miraculously protects him. And then Xerxes throws or I think it was Darius actually throws everybody else into the lion's den who tried to kill Daniel. That's a super shortened version of that story. Why? Because Daniel was willing to pray in his room and yet still not willing to back down from his faith. So when we say go into your room pray close the door pray to your father who is unseen. Then there's a cause and effect. Cause I pray to my father who is unseen. Effect then your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. Jesus is speaking about having a relationship in prayer. When I pray to my heavenly father I then don't try to pick it up and make it happen myself. I know I know. I'm like the super weak person. I'm the only person that's ever done that right? I'm the only person that's ever prayed about something. God I'm going to give it to you. I hand it to you. Lord I trust you. By the way I've got a plan to do this myself. Right? It was Darius. Thank you. I was like no Darius. Yeah it was. When we accept the responsibility to pray. Which again Jesus begins this statement. But when you pray. The idea that you could be a Christian and not have a prayer life is like saying you can be a human and not have a heartbeat. Your body might be the right shape but you ain't living it. You're just sitting there dead as a doornail. We must not only accept the fact we must pray genuinely but in order to have a genuine prayer life with God we must pray personally. Next words do not make prayer effective. Now if you are new to the Christian faith. If you are joining us virtually the first time and you've never heard anything about Jesus. This point is probably not going to bother you very much. But for those of us who grew up in church. Those of us who were raised around church. This one this one cuts a little deep. So I'm not meaning to hurt you but roll with me here. Words do not make prayer more effective. Verses seven and eight. Notice again and when you pray. Third time Jesus has said it. I think he's making a point Miss Kim. And when you pray. Here's the other thing I don't want you to do. Do not keep on babbling like pagans. Don't keep on babbling like pagans. For they think they will be heard because of their many words. Now Jesus is making a first century reference that his audience would have understood greatly. We have to step outside of the reference and apply the principle. Because the actual practical of that no longer applies. I don't live around pagan temples where people bag of babble to pagan gods. I might live around a lot of idolatry which we'll get to later this year. But keep on babbling like pagans. Why? For they think they will be heard because of their many words. If you would permit me let me translate this into the new international bill version. Don't keep on babbling like religious people who think their prayers are better because they're longer. Or don't keep on babbling like religious people who think their prayers are better because their words are bigger. Right? You ever been around somebody that every time they pray it's like they're making their own theological doctrine statement. They use all these big third words. I love studying. I want us to be a thinking person's church. I want us to understand the deep things about God. But you don't have to pull out anti-trinitarianism every time you pray to make sure that you love Jesus. Sometimes the simplest prayer can be Lord help me. I'm not backing down. I'm going to go where you send me to go. Or how about Lord I'm ready send me. Now those of us who like to pray. I am not and there are several of you in this room. I really enjoy having you in the Sunday morning prayer meeting because you don't just give the short prayers. Long prayers have a place. I am not and normally when I pray it takes me I don't know what a good minute to minute and a half just to make a point. Because number one I'm really emotional. Number two I'm super ADHD and those two make for like rabbit trails in prayer. And I gotta like bring myself back. I'm not saying that a long prayer is a bad prayer. What I'm saying is if you believe a long prayer is good because it's long that's a bad prayer. If you believe the prayer is important or powerful or effective because of your word choice not because of who we're praying to. That's the difference. There are those of us I like long prayers bro. I like prayer time. I'm not saying that every prayer needs to be a drive-through like Chick-fil-A style drive-through. I mean you're in and out. I'm gonna say what I need to say. I'm gonna grab a chicken sandwich. Praise Jesus I'm out. Sometimes we need to linger in his presence but we don't linger in his presence because the length makes it effective. We linger in his presence because the God we pray to makes prayer effective. He says this, they think they will be heard because of their many words. Do not be like them. Don't do it. I mean it's pretty simple. Hey those people who pray because they think their word choices make a difference don't do that. Why? Do not be like them. Why? For your heavenly father knows what you need before you ask him. Super simple question. Let's just think it through. Let's be a thinking person's church. Does God already know what you're going to say? Right? Yes. Let's not give up the omniscience of God. Let's not give up the omnipresence of God. Of course he knows. So then why do I have to say it? Well I mean let me say this. How many parents? How many parents love to hear your kids talk to you? Even though I know as soon as church is over, I'm going to get another Minecraft story from my son. I know it. Right? Right? All of you who know Micah, all of you are nodding your heads. Totally true. And you know what? He's going to tell me the same five Minecraft facts over and over and over because he just learned them and he's super excited about them and every time he tells me I need to make it sound like it's the first time I've heard it because sometimes I don't remember it and I don't know a lot about video games. But do you not think I love to hear my son excited about what he loves? Of course I do. Why? Because my relationship with him is the context for my conversation with him. My relationship with him is the context of my conversation with him. The same is with my heavenly father and I'm the silly ADHD kid who rattles on about this, that, and the next thing that gets into my bubble maker mind and all of a sudden I'm here and then I'm here and then I'm here. Does God not know what I'm going to say? Absolutely he does. But it's in my relationship with him and I'm just going to take Mr Pete's point because it was really good. It's in my relationship with him he allows me to express myself. That's where this genuineness of prayer comes from. I'm not babbling on because I think babbling makes my prayer effective. No, I'm babbling on because in my relationship with my father I'm excited to tell him about what I'm excited about. That doesn't make a bad prayer. It's when I think the length of the amount of words I use or I try to use a lot of words like Miss Kim. You know she's like she's the super smart staff member. She's the one with the $13 words. $20 words. I'm sorry they inflation they've gone up. The $20 words. You don't have to use these big theological words to make your prayer. Genuine prayer is a required activity. Keep it personal. Words don't make it effective. Now I'm really really really going to upset everybody so don't shoot me. I promise I'm going to make a good point. Jesus prayer in this passage is a model not a mantra. Just go with me. I promise when we're done if you need to warm up the tar and feathers I'll take it. But watch this. Jesus prayer in this passage. How many of you recognize the Lord's Prayer when I started reading it? Right? Many of us who've grown up in church you have. We've recognized it because we've repeated it a lot. But the model that Jesus left for us is a model not a mantra. Take a look at just the first part of verse 9. Matthew chapter 6 verse 9a. This then is how you should pray. This then is how you should pray. I made a huge point about the fact Jesus said and when you pray not if you pray. Right? I'm going to make another huge point here. Jesus says this is how you should pray not what you should pray. The Lord's Prayer this passage that we call the Lord's Prayer is absolutely a beautiful example of prayer. But Jesus never left it to turn it into a mantra or an incantation that we just repeat soullessly and endlessly because we memorized it. Now I memorized it when I was a little kid. I remember I grew up in American Baptist Church in in New Jersey. I remember third fourth grade we were memorizing the Lord's Prayer in Sunday school. Like I've known it for years then I memorized a different version. Then I go to another translation. I memorized a different version. The model that Jesus left for us in prayer I don't want you to feel bad about repeating the Lord's Prayer. It's still Jesus praying to God the Father. It's not a bad thing to repeat but it doesn't have power just because you repeat it. Think about the point we just made. Prayer is not made effective by word choice. Therefore just because you choose to pray a prayer keep in mind Jesus didn't speak English. Right? So you're still not repeating what Jesus actually said. Unless you could speak Aramaic and Hebrew you're not actually quoting what Jesus said. You're quoting a translation of what Jesus said. But what I want you to see here is Jesus left a powerful model for you and I to build a prayer life. Not just a mantra to repeat the strength of his prayer life. You with me? All right so let's take a look at this. Here are the parts of Jesus's prayer. I'm going to give there's five of them. This will be my last point and it's like basically five sub points. There are five components to Jesus prayer that we can then take those components and Jack include them any way we want in our personal prayer life. Here's the first point. Holiness. Jesus, what's the first line of the prayer? Anybody? What's the first line? Our Father in heaven hallowed be your name. Hallowed is the adjective form of the word holy. What does holy mean? It means to be set apart for a righteous and holy purpose. Holy means to be set apart. I often use the example of guest towels. I grew up in a house where my mama has guest towels. A year or so ago I got given a set of monogrammed guest towels for my house which are still hanging in my bathroom this morning. Used it to dry my hands after I shaved. Why? Because that towel was made for a better purpose than my paper towels. Than the shop towels you keep in the garage. Why? Because the towel itself is purposed for something greater. That's what it means to be holy. To be set apart for a better purpose. The first thing Jesus says is our Father in heaven. Notice his relationship to God is couched in the community not individual. He said our Father not my Father. Is Jesus, is God his Father? Absolutely. Is he my Father? Yes. Is he Miss Ilona's Father? Yes. Is he Miss Andre's Father? Yes. But collectively we find a communal relationship between us and God. He said our Father in heaven hallowed be your name. Jesus begins his prayer by recognizing the holy and set apart nature of God. Point number two. Then Jesus speaks of obedience. He says your kingdom come your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Now keep in mind Jesus is a Jew. He's praying teaching mostly Jews on a hillside in Galilee filled with Jews. So when we say your kingdom what is Jesus referring to? Jesus is referring to the expectation of the millennial kingdom where the Davidic promises would be fulfilled. If you guys remember October we went through Revelation right? There's a coming kingdom where Jesus is going to come back and Jesus is going to actually rule and reign on a literal throne in a literal Jerusalem on a real earth. Very very real. This was the Jewish expectation coming out of the Old Testament. That there was going to be a coming who would fulfill those promises to David and to Abraham and the Palestinian covenant of getting land together. All of that end times knowledge is buried in this word. Your kingdom come. But not just that. But Lord when your kingdom comes. Now let me paraphrase your will be done. Lord when your kingdom come help us be as obedient to you as the angels in heaven are to you. That's what he's saying. When your kingdom comes your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. He's saying Miss Cindy when you come as the king I pray that I will be able to be as obedient to your kingship as the angels in heaven are to you now. He's not talking about God's will being done out on the earth as much as he's saying God's will being done out on the earth through my personal obedience. There's a huge point in prayer reminding yourself I still have a king. He's not here yet. He's ruling up there right now. He's coming down here to rule. But he is still my king and I need to be obedient to him. The third thing now we get to talking about provision. Give us today our daily bread. Anybody who's a first century Jew is going to know exactly the story Jesus is referring to here. He's referring to the manna in the wilderness. When even while God's people were in disobedience God supernaturally provided for them day by day by day by day by day by day two for the Sabbath and day by day by day. When he says give us today our daily bread he's referring to trusting in God's provision on the daily. Not on the bi-weekly or not on the semi-monthly or not on the first of the monthly or whenever it is you get paid but trusting in God's provision day by day by day by day by day Sabbath by day. That's what he's saying. To a first century Jew they immediately would have caught the context. We need to know God provides for us even in our disobedience but man does he bless us in our obedience. Remember when we looked at the Exodus you can't fully understand the story of the Exodus and the wilderness wandering without the third part which is the conquest of Canaan. They all go together as one big piece of God saving his people providing for his people and giving them the promises. That's how all that section of the Bible goes together. So not only am I going to remember God's holiness not only am I going to remind myself to be obedient to my father I'm going to remind myself that it's God who provides for me but his provision is not just for my daily life it's for my eternal life and forgive us of our debts or sins as we forgive those who are we forgive our debtors or those who have trespassed against us depending on which translation of that prayer you memorized. Not only do I remember God's holiness I remember my responsibility to be obedient. I remember his blessing of provision but I remember his forgiveness. What is the debt referred to here? The debt that every Jew understood they could never pay to their creator. The debt of sin. I cannot pay back that which I owe God. I don't have enough in the tank. None of us do. There's not enough money on the planet. Keep in mind the fact that God owns everything already anyway by virtue of being the creator but there's not enough money. Why did God forgive our debt? Because he loved us. Not because he had to. God would have been fully God without humanity. You got to know that. God is fully holy. He is fully righteous. He is fully pure. He's fully relational in the members of the Trinity. He didn't have to. He chose to. But notice what the Lord links here. He links the acceptance of God's forgiveness with the requirement for us to forgive others. This is the number one hypocritical thing I see in Christianity. I don't normally get on soap boxes. I probably do more than I think. But I'm going to say this is a soap box for me. I have a hard time with people who will accept God's forgiveness for their sins but then not let other people off the hook for the sins committed against them. Now forgiveness of sin does not equal absolution of consequence. If you come over my house and we have burgers and you steal my car I might let you come over my house again but I'm going to put my car keys away. Right? Forgiveness of sin does not equal absolution of consequence nor does it mean full restoration of relationship. What it does mean is you stop carrying around the fence. And how do I know that? If you can wake up and pray for that person to be blessed you've forgiven them. If you cannot wake up and pray for their blessing you haven't. That's right. Parable of talents. Very easy. R.T. Kendall total forgiveness. Fantastic book. Rock your world. Not a sponsor but amazing book nonetheless. We must accept the fact that God forgives us because we are required to forgive others. Here's the fifth part of Jesus's prayer. He says two things. Lead us and deliver us. Two verbs associated with God's activity of which we are the ones being moved. First is lead us not into temptation. Lead us not down the bad path. Which means what? West, lead us away from temptation. But then there's a second part. Deliver us from the evil one. I would submit to you that in my opinion these are two actions that are causally related. If we would follow God in leading us away from temptation, the act of us following away from temptation is in and of itself deliverance from the evil one. You know what was hard? Is people say, Lord give me what I want but save me from the consequences. Lord I totally want to smoke crack but I don't want to be addicted. Lord I totally want to run out and do something I shouldn't. Right? All of you. I have four faces that went oh my God what is he about to say? I totally want to run out and do something I shouldn't. But Lord I want you to save me from the consequences of my actions. That's being a hypocrite. If we take these two phrases together, lead us not into temptation and by doing so deliver us from the evil one. Notice the us again. The group is in picture. The individuals are saved from temptation by individually following the shepherd collectively away from the evil one. The problem is if you don't obey the first half, you get caught in the snare of the second. If you're not willing to obey and follow God away from temptation then by virtue you are delivering yourself further into sin. Do we believe that God would ever willingly and knowingly march us right into the gates of hell? No. That absolutely goes against the Bible in his character. But do I think sometimes God goes, Bill I'm gonna let you make this choice. I'm gonna be super disappointed if you do the wrong thing but I'm gonna let you experience the consequences of your choices so that you understand not to do it again. Yes. I absolutely believe that is in the character of God because I watched him do it to his children in the Bible over and over and over and over. Sometimes a dog returns to its vomit. No, my favorite story Mr. Pete is when the children of Israel, it's during the wilderness wandering period. That period just absolutely I love. I think because I feel like a crackpot wandering more often than not. And I noticed God, they're complaining. They're like we had we had pots of meat to eat in Egypt. We should go back. We should go back and be slaves. God says fine. You want meat? I'm gonna give you so much meat it's gonna come out of your ears. You're gonna be so sick and tired of meat by the like. He's like fine. You want it? Here's some more. Here's some more. Here's some more. Until you get so sick of what you want that you realize you should have never had it in the first place. I think the biggest thing I learned in 2020, this is just my personal thing, biggest thing I learned in 2020, God will often punish my sin by giving me more of it not less of it. He'll give me so much of it that it makes me sick to my stomach that I even got into it in the first place. And then go, Lord I don't want any more of that. He lets me eat. Now, the Lord has never done this with chocolate. I'm just saying that. I really love chocolate. I've never eaten chocolate to the point I got sick of it. But I have eaten chocolate to the point that I don't want anymore. Or coffee. Actually, yeah. Coffee is another good one. You could drink so much sin that ultimately makes you sick. Why? Because if I had just done what Jesus said and followed the Lord's direction leading away from temptation, the action of following God away from temptation automatically delivers us from evil. So, if I take these five things together, these are the five points that I want you to see from the Lord's prayer. It's not that it's bad to repeat it. They all five points are included in Jesus's prayer. But again, if the words we choose to pray don't make our prayers more powerful, repeating a translation of something Jesus said doesn't make it more powerful as a prayer. It does make it powerful as the word of God. Don't think I'm going farther than it should. But in our daily prayer lives, that's what I want you to have. I want you to get into a prayer. It says, Lord, God, I know. And here's how I would do this. God, I recognize you are so holy and I am not. Lord, thank you that you loved me even though I don't deserve to be loved by someone as holy as you. Thank you that you love me. Lord, help me to be obedient to your word. Help me to treat my wife the way the Bible tells me to. Help me to treat my children the way the Bible tells me to. Help me to lead our church in the way the Bible tells me to. Lord, I thank you that as I'm going to walk through obedience, you've already provided for me. Lord, I don't know what tomorrow brings but you do. And if you have not chosen to send me a telegram that tells me what's coming tomorrow, then Lord, I trust that you will provide for my needs as I continue to walk through obedience. Father, forgive me when I fail. Forgive me when I know I'm not going to be good enough. But continue to lead me, Lord, because I want to follow. There's all five points of Jesus's prayer. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. In a way that makes sense to me. I didn't need any huge $20 Kim words. I didn't grab any theological terms. But that's a simple prayer that follows the Lord's model. So here's the takeaway. What do we, we just did a fun exposition of Jesus's prayer. Here's the takeaway. Jesus model prayer is a way for us to meet this requirement of our faith. We each must have a daily habit of personal prayer with the Lord in which we remember his holiness, provision, forgiveness, and direction. Our responsibility is obedience and forgiving others. I need you to start this year off healthily. So all kinds of New Year's resolutions, right? We talked about that last week. People love making New Year's resolutions. How about you start off benefiting your relationship with God? Make prayer important. Make prayer important. If you need to, take a picture of those, of that screen. Just grab your phone, take a picture of it. If you're watching this, you can go ahead, take a screenshot. Zoe, are we big or are we little right now? Can you make it? Yeah, keep it big. If you need to, take a screenshot of that or take a picture of it. That's what I want you to model your prayer life after. Why? Because that's the way Jesus left it for us. It's simple, it's easy. You could pray through those five points any way you want. If you want, you could mix them up. Thank God for his direction first. Ask for his forgiveness when you fail. Thank him for the provision even when you do fail. He's not forgotten you. Recommit to being obedience and end with his holiness. However you mix those five things up, that is the model that Jesus left us because prayer is a requirement. So do me a favor. Ms. Kim introduced you to our connection card earlier in the service. So those who are here on campus, please do me a favor and pull out your connection card. Those who are joining us virtually, you don't have one of these in your hand most likely, but you can go to rwood.cc forward slash card, C-A-R-D, R-W-O-O-D, thank you very much, right there. rwood.cc forward slash card and that will get you the digital version of this connection card. Number one, it helps us to notice that you came to church. Helps us to keep our attendance up. We're working on rolling out virtual membership, but it also gives you an opportunity to respond. So this morning as I close my message, I have to ask you the simple question. Do you even have a relationship with God to begin with? Because the presupposition before Jesus' Sermon on the Mount was the fact that he was talking to people who are already in relationship with God. He was talking to Jews who knew who their creator was, who knew who their covenant maker was. That's where the walk of faith has to start. Do you know that you have a relationship with Jesus? So that's my first question to you this morning. Now whether you're on campus or you're virtual, you can take a look at your connection card. If you have the physical one, it starts on the back. If you're doing the digital one, you can scroll down to about middle way and it says, I want to make a faith step today. And that first step is, I want to begin a life with Jesus. You cannot have a full spirit field prayer life without being in relationship with Jesus. That's just, I'm not trying to be mean. I'm just trying to tell you the truth. The truth is, we all need to be in relationship with God. But only you know whether you have made that step to put your faith in Christ. The second says, I want to rededicate my life. There are those of us who grew up in church and then we had our own personal wilderness wandering experience. And now our Monday to Saturday life does not look like our Sunday morning attendance. Been there, done that. Got the t-shirt and the matching socks. I had like frequent flyer miles for a while. I know what that feels like. Do you need to make a momentary rededication that says, God, I've been all over the map today. Right now, I'm going to commit to being serious in my relationship with you. You can also see there, I'm interested in getting baptized. We're about to celebrate a baptism moment. Baptism is a hugely important part of the Christian walk. It's got Old Testament foundation, New Testament expression. Jesus stood on top of both in order to make Christian baptism what it is. I want you to be able to experience the fullness of that. If you're not really sure about baptism, you have questions. Go ahead and fill that out. I'm interested in getting baptized. The staff will let me know that we need to have a conversation and we can have one offline. You can see there, I'm interested in becoming a member, learning about electronic giving or maybe you need to talk to me. Something I said in my sermon today. Whether you're joining us virtually or not. Something I said in my message today that made you think, hmm, I wonder about that. Maybe it's a question, maybe it's a comment, maybe it's a rebuttal. You don't like the way I handled the text. I don't care what it is. I would love to have a one-on-one conversation with you where we can talk about what is God doing in your life. But I can only do that if you invite me. Now, maybe you have something in your life. You need to talk about it but you really don't want to write the word out. I get that. We have a code word for that. You put the word taco on the back of your card. If you're joining us digitally, nobody's going to see it anyway until it gets emailed in. Write the word taco. T-A-C-O. That's our code word for I need to talk about something but I need to keep it a little confidential. So, the staff will let me know. I will contact you and then privately you and I will talk about it. So, I want you to do this. Do me a favor. Miss Linda, if you and the worship team could rejoin us on stage. In a moment, we're going to collect your connection cards, your pens, and this morning's tithes and offerings. Now, again, we have our electronic giving console. If you would like to go to www.givetoreadswood.com, that'll take you right over to our eGiving console. Or for those of you who are here on campus, you can use the offering envelope that was in your bulletin. If you do not want to use the envelope, if you would please just put it back in the offering paint blank. It helps us to recycle them and makes the church's investment last a little longer. So, what I'm going to ask you to do is, Mr. West, if in a moment you guys would come up and collect our connection cards as our offering as we close in a song, we've got one more thing to do which is going to be celebrate the baptism of a young believer. Very excited about that. So, I'm going to hand it over, Mr. West, after I pray, you can come on up. After I pray, if you guys will collect connection cards, pens, offering, Ms. Linda is going to lead us in a song and then hopefully I can quick change and be back into the baptistry in the time it takes you to sing a song. So, let's pray and we'll give to the Lord this morning. Heavenly Father, I thank you for the gifts and provision you've already provided to us. Lord, we give to you this morning out of the grace which you have already poured out to us. We thank you, Lord, that you have provided for us and now we give back to your graciousness. We give back out of love, not compulsion, but Father, we give to you this morning to glorify you, to worship you, and to further the agenda of your kingdom. Not our church, Lord, but your will. In Jesus' name, Amen. Jason, take Bryce into the back. Jason, take Bryce into the back.