01: What are Angels?
Tuesday, November 12, 2024 4:02 PM
Key Thought: Angels are a cultural topic with a lot of
misunderstanding. The Bible is the only authoritative source to
inform us about angels.
Recent Polls:
69% of Americans believe in Angels (2023, AP-NORC)
67% of Americans who do not identify with any religious
group believe in angels (2025, Gallop)
3 Main ways to know about Angels:
Cultural: It's a Wonderful Life, Good Omens, Supernatural
Personal: family, friend, or personal encounter
Biblical: What does the Bible say?
1: What are angels?
[Angels are created beings.]
John 1:1-3
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with
God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the
beginning. Through him all things were made; without him
nothing was made that has been made.
In the beginning - the moment before creation, only God
existed, He and He alone is the uncaused, first-cause
According to the Angels 2024 Page 1

existed, He and He alone is the uncaused, first-cause
Through Him - Jesus is the means of creation. God spoke,
Jesus made.
Nothing was made - EVERYTHING outside of God Himself is
a created thing. This includes angels!
Colossians 1:16
16 For in him all things were created: things in heaven and on
earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or powers or rulers
or authorities; all things have been created through him and for
him.
All things - all things other than God
And for Him - angels were created by God FOR GOD
not deceased humans - we don't become angels
bell rings don't make wings - we don't create angels
2: What do angels do?
[Angels are messengers.]
Hebrew: /mal-AK/ "messenger" (107 of 115)
Greek: /ang-GEY-los/ "messenger" (168 of 178)
According to the Angels 2024 Page 2

Genesis 19:15
15 With the coming of dawn, the angels urged Lot, saying,
“Hurry! Take your wife and your two daughters who are here,
or you will be swept away when the city is punished.”
Angels urged Lot - they were not delivering their own
message, but God's plan for the cities
Will be swept away - the plan was already in motion and
the angels were "messengers" informing Lot of the coming
destruction.
Matthew 1:20
20 But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord
appeared to him in a dream and said, “Joseph son of David, do
not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is
conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
Angel appeared to him - the angel is sent by God to deliver
His message, not speaking for itself
Is from the Holy Spirit - the angel is the "messenger" of
God's plan for the incarnation speaking to Joseph
Revelation 12:7
7 Then war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought
against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back.
According to the Angels 2024 Page 3

Angels fought - servants fight for the King and His Kingdom
3: How many angels are there?
[There are a countless number of angels.]
Revelation 5:11
11 Then I looked and heard the voice of many angels,
numbering thousands upon thousands, and ten thousand times
ten thousand. They encircled the throne and the living creatures
and the elders.
Thousands upon thousands - this could be hyperbole, but
the effect is still the same… an un-countable amount
4: Angels do not have children?
[Angels do not bear offspring.]
Matthew 22:30
30 At the resurrection people will neither marry nor be given in
marriage; they will be like the angels in heaven.
Like the angels - angels are immortal beings, they do not
marry or make "baby angels"
5: When were the angels created?
According to the Angels 2024 Page 4

5: When were the angels created?
[Angels were created before earth.]
Job 38:4–7
4 “Where were you when I laid the earth’s foundation? Tell me,
if you understand.
5 Who marked off its dimensions? Surely you know! Who
stretched a measuring line across it?
6 On what were its footings set, or who laid its cornerstone—
7 while the morning stars sang together and all the angels
shouted for joy?
Earth's foundations - the creating of the earth
All the angels - meaning they were "all" made by this
Shouted for joy - angels respond to the glory of creation
The Takeaway:
Angels are created beings that are more powerful than
humans, who serve God as messengers, servants, and warriors.
According to the Angels 2024 Page 5

02: What are Demons?
Tuesday, November 12, 2024 4:08 PM
Key Thought: Angels are a cultural topic with a lot of
misunderstanding. The Bible is the only authoritative source to
inform us about angels.
Recent Polls:
69% of Americans believe in Angels (2023, AP-NORC)
67% of Americans who do not identify with any religious
group believe in angels (2024, Gallop)
3 Main ways to know about Angels:
Cultural: It's a Wonderful Life, Good Omens, Supernatural
Personal: family, friend, or personal encounter
Biblical: What does the Bible say?
1: What is Satan?
[Satan is a fallen angel who led a rebellion against God.]
The origin of Satan only has three options:
a: Satan is an uncreated being (eternal, necessary)
b: Satan is a self-created being (logically impossible)
c: Satan is a created being (Bible's answer)
Ezekiel 28:11–19
According to the Angels 2024 Page 6

11 The word of the LORD came to me:
12 “Son of man, take up a lament concerning the king of Tyre
and say to him: ‘This is what the Sovereign LORD says: “ ‘You
were the seal of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in
beauty.
King of Tyre - several aspects appear to be more than
would apply to a mortal human
13 You were in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone
adorned you: carnelian, chrysolite and emerald, topaz, onyx and
jasper, lapis lazuli, turquoise and beryl. Your settings and
mountings were made of gold; on the day you were created
they were prepared.
You were in Eden - the human King was NOT in eden
14 You were anointed as a guardian cherub, for so I ordained
you. You were on the holy mount of God; you walked among the
fiery stones.
Anointed a guardian cherub - could be hyperbole for a
human king, or a literal description of an angel
15 You were blameless in your ways from the day you were
created till wickedness was found in you.
Blameless… until wickedness - this cannot be a human, but
could easily be an angelic being
According to the Angels 2024 Page 7

could easily be an angelic being
16 Through your widespread trade you were filled with violence,
and you sinned. So I drove you in disgrace from the mount of
God, and I expelled you, guardian cherub, from among the fiery
stones.
Widespread trade - this sounds like the human king of Tyre,
and not Satan
From the Mount of God - this is hard to interpret as a
human, thought "trade" could very well be
17 Your heart became proud on account of your beauty, and
you corrupted your wisdom because of your splendor. So I threw
you to the earth; I made a spectacle of you before kings.
Your heart become proud - PRIDE is the original sin. Pride in
one's self that makes one deserving of someone else's
things. Coveting.
18 By your many sins and dishonest trade you have desecrated
your sanctuaries. So I made a fire come out from you, and it
consumed you, and I reduced you to ashes on the ground in the
sight of all who were watching.
Dishonest trade - this also sounds like the human king, not
Satan
19 All the nations who knew you are appalled at you; you have
come to a horrible end and will be no more.’ ”
According to the Angels 2024 Page 8

come to a horrible end and will be no more.’ ”
2: What is Satan's authority?
[Satan is the ruler of this world.]
John 12:31–32
31 Now is the time for judgment on this world; now the prince
of this world will be driven out.
Prince - lit. "ruler, leader, official"
This world - /KOS-mos/ "world, order"
32 And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all
people to myself.”
Draw all people - through His death and resurrection, Jesus
will literally "drag" or extract His people from the Kingdom
of Satan
Ex: Mayor of Wilmington doesn't disqualify the Governor of
Delaware
3: What are demons?
[Demons are fallen angels that followed Satan in rebellion
against God.]
According to the Angels 2024 Page 9

Matthew 12:24–28
24 But when the Pharisees heard this, they said, “It is only by
Beelzebul, the prince of demons, that this fellow drives out
demons.”
Matthew 25:41
41 “Then he will say to those on his left, ‘Depart from me, you
who are cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and
his angels.
Demons are NOT the souls of evil humans trapped on earth.
[In a biblical worldview, ghosts are demons.]
4: What is demonic possession?
Matthew 17:14–18
14 When they came to the crowd, a man approached Jesus and
knelt before him.
15 “Lord, have mercy on my son,” he said. “He has seizures and
is suffering greatly. He often falls into the fire or into the water.
Has seizures - the demon was able to control or override
the boys physical body
16 I brought him to your disciples, but they could not heal him.”
17 “You unbelieving and perverse generation,” Jesus replied,
“how long shall I stay with you? How long shall I put up with
you? Bring the boy here to me.”
According to the Angels 2024 Page 10

18 Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of the boy, and he
was healed at that moment.
Healed at that moment - The cause of the boy's affliction
was demonic.
Not all gray things are elephants!
The Takeaway:
Demons are fallen angels who followed Satan in rebellion
against God and now serve Him to do evil in the world.
According to the Angels 2024 Page 11

03: The Message to Zechariah
Tuesday, November 12, 2024 4:08 PM
Key Thought:
The angelic messages that heralded the incarnation of Jesus
have continued meaning for us today.
Setting:
God has not spoken to His people in 400 hundred years. He
breaks His silence with this first angelic message of the
Christmas story.
Luke 1:5–25
5 In the time of Herod king of Judea there was a priest named
Zechariah, who belonged to the priestly division of Abijah; his
wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron.
Time of Herod king of Judea - Luke places his narrative in
history with a known marker his readers would have
recognized
Priest named Zechariah - this explains his working at the
Temple, and also the lineage of God's servants
Priestly division of Abijah - a direct descendant of Aaron,
the first high priest of Israel
Wife Elizabeth was also a descendant - the child will be a
descendant of the original high priest on both sides of his
family
According to the Angels 2024 Page 12

6 Both of them were righteous in the sight of God, observing all
the Lord’s commands and decrees blamelessly.
Both were righteous - their internal character reflects their
lineage; being servants of the Lord
In the sight of God - righteousness can only be measured by
God's character, because He is the source of righteousness
Observing… blamelessly - this speaks of their active
obedience to the Lord, the external working of their internal
character
7 But they were childless because Elizabeth was not able to
conceive, and they were both very old.
They were childless - this would have been seen as a
disgrace in their time and culture. Much like Sarai, the wife
of Abraham who didn't conceive until it was time for the
"son of promise" to be born.
8 Once when Zechariah’s division was on duty and he was
serving as priest before God,
Once when - it seems like a random time, but it is an
appointed time!
9 he was chosen by lot, according to the custom of the
priesthood, to go into the temple of the Lord and burn incense.
According to the Angels 2024 Page 13

Chosen by lot - this also seems coincidental, but it is
actually providential ; this is a one-in-a-lifetime event
Burn incense - this is a task of worship done in the temple
10 And when the time for the burning of incense came, all the
assembled worshipers were praying outside.
When the time came - this is something God can see that
we cannot. Only He knows when "the time" is.
We stay busy being faithful while God is working plans!
11 Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the
right side of the altar of incense.
Then - this is the promised, prophesied, providentially
appointed time for God's working in and for His people!
An angel of the Lord appeared - God's faithful angels are
created beings who are His messengers, this time it is in a
very literal sense.
The right side of the altar - where did Luke get this exact
piece of information. He had to have received it from the
source, as Zechariah is the only one who was there!
12 When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and was gripped
According to the Angels 2024 Page 14

12 When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and was gripped
with fear.
Startled - lit. disturbed or troubled
Gripped with fear - /pho-bos/ the anticipating of danger, a
desire to fight or flee
13 But the angel said to him: “Do not be afraid, Zechariah; your
prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son,
and you are to call him John.
Your prayer has been heard - clearly, they had been praying
for the Lord to give them a child
Will bear you a son - this can only be foretold by God,
angels, as created beings, cannot know the future, only God
can do this
Call him John - just like the patriarchs, the "son of promise"
was already selected by a name; this would normally have
been Zechariah's job
14 He will be a joy and delight to you, and many will rejoice
because of his birth,
Joy and delight - joy is an internal feeling; delight is the
external action from it; lit. exaltation
15 for he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He is never to
According to the Angels 2024 Page 15

15 for he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He is never to
take wine or other fermented drink, and he will be filled with
the Holy Spirit even before he is born.
Great in the sight of the Lord - John will do something
'great' in the will of the Lord
Never take wine - part of being a Nazarite, or a servant
dedicated to the Lord
Filled with the Holy Spirit - the first person in the NT!
16 He will bring back many of the people of Israel to the Lord
their God.
Bring back many - this is the key point, John's ministry was
to prepare the hearts of the people to recognize their
messiah
17 And he will go on before the Lord, in the spirit and power of
Elijah, to turn the hearts of the parents to their children and the
disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous—to make ready a
people prepared for the Lord.”
Spirit and power of Elijah - in the same way that Elijah was
a powerful prophet who called the people of God back to
faithfulness to Him during the time of King Ahab; so this
would be John's calling as well
Make ready a people - this was John's mission. To prepare
the people to receive their promised Messiah
According to the Angels 2024 Page 16

the people to receive their promised Messiah
18 Zechariah asked the angel, “How can I be sure of this? I am
an old man and my wife is well along in years.”
How can I be sure… well along in years - Zechariah doesn’t
question the message, He questions the "how" when he
clearly knew that increase in age made it challenging to
conceive.
19 The angel said to him, “I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence
of God, and I have been sent to speak to you and to tell you this
good news.
Stand in the presence of God - Gabriel's answer is based on
the character of the One who is sending the message, not
the one who is delivering it.
20 And now you will be silent and not able to speak until the
day this happens, because you did not believe my words, which
will come true at their appointed time.”
You will be silent - this is a clear rebuke for his lack of faith.
Scripture isn't clear on how his response was different from
Mary's, but the Lord's response to them clearly is. So that's
all we can really see from the text.
21 Meanwhile, the people were waiting for Zechariah and
wondering why he stayed so long in the temple.
According to the Angels 2024 Page 17

wondering why he stayed so long in the temple.
22 When he came out, he could not speak to them. They
realized he had seen a vision in the temple, for he kept making
signs to them but remained unable to speak.
He had seen a vision - this was a real normal part of their
worldview. They knew God could speak in visions. But
hadn't for a long time. It is interesting they so quickly went
for this explanation.
23 When his time of service was completed, he returned home.
24 After this his wife Elizabeth became pregnant and for five
months remained in seclusion.
Elizabeth became pregnant - this is a normal human
pregnancy. HOW he got Elizabeth to understand what God
told him is not detailed.
25 “The Lord has done this for me,” she said. “In these days he
has shown his favor and taken away my disgrace among the
people.”
The Lord has done this - Elizabeth also recognizes God's
hand in her conception.
Taken away my disgrace - not bearing children was a
disgrace on a family at this time.
According to the Angels 2024 Page 18

The Takeaway:
The plans of God work through the people of God. Gabriel's
message reminds us that God is working, even when we don't
see or feel Him. A providential moment could happen at any
time.
According to the Angels 2024 Page 19

04: The Message to Mary
Tuesday, November 12, 2024 4:09 PM
Key Thought:
The angelic messages that heralded the incarnation of Jesus
have continued meaning for us today.
Setting:
God has not spoken to His people in 400 hundred years. He
breaks His silence with the angelic messages of the Christmas
story.
Luke 1:26–38
26 In the sixth month of Elizabeth’s pregnancy, God sent the
angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee,
Sixth month of - Luke is linking this narrative to the
previous one, placing them both "in time" as history
God sent Gabriel - again, Gabriel is the messenger, God is
the authority and source of the message
Nazareth, a town in Galilee - the location is not very
notable or important; obscure, 'the backwoods'; the use of
"a town in Galilee" is a QUALIFYING PHRASE that tells us
the original readers weren't from Galilee!
27 to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a
descendant of David. The virgin’s name was Mary.
A virgin - /par-THEN-ohs/ lit. a female human who has
According to the Angels 2024 Page 20

A virgin - /par-THEN-ohs/ lit. a female human who has
never had sexual intercourse; an unmarried woman
Pledged to be married - marriage in this culture is two-
stages. This stage the families agree to the terms, a bride-
price is paid for the bride, and a declaration/agreement of
marriage is signed.
This agreement was legally binding. Any sexual contact by the
daughter with another person was considered adultery. Mary
would have been no more than 15 years old at this time.
Descendant of David - God promised King David a "forever
king" that would come from his lineage. The promised king
has to come from David's line.
28 The angel went to her and said, “Greetings, you who are
highly favored! The Lord is with you.”
You who are highly favored - the favor comes FROM GOD
because HE CHOSE HER, Luke is not saying that Mary was
chosen by God because of her own holiness or special
worthiness on her own apart from God's choice.
29 Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what
kind of greeting this might be.
Troubled - the only time this word appears in Scripture,
carries the idea of confused to an extreme degree
According to the Angels 2024 Page 21

30 But the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary; you have
found favor with God.
Do not be afraid - typical angelic response
31 You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you are to call
him Jesus.
You will conceive and give birth - something physically
impossible for a young woman who has never been sexually
active.
Call him Jesus - Heb. "yeshua", Greek "iesous"
32 He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High.
The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David,
Son of the Most High - Mary's baby will be the son of God,
equal in divinity to Yahweh. He will be God.
Lord God - lit. Kyrios Theos - God who holds all authority
His Father David - Jesus is the Son of David, the promised
King to come and redeem Israel
33 and he will reign over Jacob’s descendants forever; his
kingdom will never end.”
Kingdom will never end - the "forever king" promised in the
Davidic Covenant
According to the Angels 2024 Page 22

Davidic Covenant
34 “How will this be,” Mary asked the angel, “since I am a
virgin?”
How will this be - this question is different from Zechariah,
because it doesn't include the doubt element Gabriel noted
in the previous narrative
Since I am a virgin - Mary clearly understood how
pregnancy worked. This is also not a claim for "perpetual
virginity". This idea is just not in the text.
35 The angel answered, “The Holy Spirit will come on you, and
the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the holy
one to be born will be called the Son of God.
The Holy Spirit - the incarnation of Jesus in the womb of
Mary was a creative act of the Holy Spirit
This how we can be sure that Jesus was both fully God (Holy
Spirit) and fully human (Mary).
Overshadow you - same imagery as creation. The Holy
Spirit "overshadowed" the earth preparing it for creation.
The Holy One - Jesus would be born holy, set part from sin
and for God. Jesus was born sinless.
36 Even Elizabeth your relative is going to have a child in her old
According to the Angels 2024 Page 23

36 Even Elizabeth your relative is going to have a child in her old
age, and she who was said to be unable to conceive is in her
sixth month.
Even Elizabeth - Gabriel uses the previous narrative as
evidence of God's power to do the "impossible".
37 For no word from God will ever fail.”
38“I am the Lord’s servant,” Mary answered. “May your word
to me be fulfilled.” Then the angel left her.
I am the Lord's servant - this is Mary's statement of faith
and obedience.
The Takeaway:
Gabriel's message to Mary reminds us that Jesus was born
sinless, fully man and fully God, to inherit the throne of David
as the promised Forever King.
According to the Angels 2024 Page 24

05: The Message to Joseph
Tuesday, November 12, 2024 4:09 PM
Key Thought:
The angelic messages that heralded the incarnation of Jesus
have continued meaning for us today.
Setting:
God has not spoken to His people in 400 hundred years. He
breaks His silence with the angelic messages of the Christmas
story.
Matthew 1:18–25
18 This is how the birth of Jesus the Messiah came about: His
mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before
they came together, she was found to be pregnant through the
Holy Spirit.
Jesus the Messiah - Matthew opens with identifying Jesus
as the 'anointed one' of Isreal. Fulfilling prophecy of His
arrival
His mother Mary - there is no debate on who Jesus's
mother is
Pledged to be married - engaged, no sex allowed
Before…pregnant - this is an 'impossible' circumstance
Through the Holy Spirit - Matthew starts with Jesus as the
divine Messiah
According to the Angels 2024 Page 25

19 Because Joseph her husband was faithful to the law, and yet
did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to
divorce her quietly.
Faithful to the law - Joseph was a faithful man
Did not want to expose her - Joseph was also
compassionate to Mary
Divorce - in their culture, engagement required a divorce
20 But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord
appeared to him in a dream and said, “Joseph son of David, do
not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is
conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
After he had considered - Joseph is trapped between his
faithfulness to the Law and his compassion for Mary. He
doesn't want to stay married, but also doesn't want to
disgrace her.
Often the intersection between righteousness and
compassion is uncomfortable to walk in
Joseph, Son of David - Joesph's lineage is disqualified from
the Davidic throne because of his ancestor Jeconiah (Jer
22:30, Matt 1:12)
Joseph represents LEGAL lineage,
Mary provides physical descendancy
According to the Angels 2024 Page 26

Mary provides physical descendancy
Appeared… in a dream - this is a normal way for God to
speak to His people. This would have been viewed favorably
by someone who is faithful to the Law
Do not be afraid - Joseph's fear is over Mary having been
unfaithful to him before their engagement is even finalized.
Accepting Mary as his wife at this point would be equal to
admitting Mary was carrying his baby.
From the Holy Spirit - the child is not the product of a
lustful affair, it is the product of God's creative action
21 She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name
Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins.”
Will give birth to a son - God omnisciently knows the future
of this unborn child
Save his people - Jesus is being born to be the Savior of the
Jews
From their sins - Jesus saves His people from their sins
22 All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through
the prophet:
Took place to fulfill - the angel speaks Scripture to faithful
Joseph to show this is God's anointed one who has been
According to the Angels 2024 Page 27

Joseph to show this is God's anointed one who has been
prophesied to come
23 “The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will
call him Immanuel” (which means “God with us”).
Virgin will conceive - this would be a sign to know the
promised one is coming
God with us - this is another illusion to Jesus's divinity even
as he is in Mary's womb
24 When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had
commanded him and took Mary home as his wife.
Woke up, he did - there was no waiting for Joseph's
obedience, he was a faithful man and immediately obeyed
the word of the Lord
25 But he did not consummate their marriage until she gave
birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus.
Did not consummate - sex within marriage is not sinful, so
this has nothing to do with sin.
A: Jospeh abstains because God is inside his wife.
B: Joseph abstains because the Isaiah prophecy.
C: Jospeh abstains because of the Jeremiah prophecy.
D: Joseph abstains to ensure he is not viewed as the father.
According to the Angels 2024 Page 28

The Takeaway:
Faithful obedience can lead us to the uncomfortable
intersection of righteousness and compassion. When faced
with the choice, we should follow Joseph's example and be
both righteous and compassionate.
According to the Angels 2024 Page 29

06: The Message to the Shepherds
Tuesday, November 12, 2024 4:09 PM
Key Thought:
The angelic messages that heralded the incarnation of Jesus
have continued meaning for us today.
Setting:
God has not spoken to His people in 400 hundred years. He
breaks His silence with the angelic messages of the Christmas
story.
Luke 2:1–18
1 In those days Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census
should be taken of the entire Roman world.
2 (This was the first census that took place while Quirinius was
governor of Syria.)
In those days - Luke is recording history, not legend
Caesar Augustus - whose name was Octavian, the great
nephew of Julius Ceasar, ruled Rome from 27 BC - AD 14,
Augustus is a semi-divine title including emperor worship
Quirinius -
Census - this census was for taxes, not military service
3 And everyone went to their own town to register.
4 So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee
According to the Angels 2024 Page 30

4 So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee
to Judea, to Bethlehem the town of David, because he belonged
to the house and line of David.
Their own town - this is why Joseph traveled to Bethlehem
5 He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be
married to him and was expecting a child.
With Mary… pledged…child - because of the circumstances,
Mary and Jesus are counted as his family even before Jesus
is born.
6 While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born,
While there - coincidence or providence?
The time came - Luke is moving through the preamble
quickly here.
7 and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped him in
cloths and placed him in a manger, because there was no guest
room available for them.
Firstborn son - Jesus is the oldest of his siblings; Mary did
not have children before Jesus was born
Wrapped in cloths - wrapping the limbs was thought to
promote strength for the baby
According to the Angels 2024 Page 31

In a manger - a feeding trough for animals; NOT a normal
place for a baby. This will be important as it is THE sign of
how the shepherds will find Jesus later.
8 And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby,
keeping watch over their flocks at night.
Shepherds living in the fields - this is a common occurrence
in the time; also why shepherds were considered dirty, low
brow, blue collar; outcasts
9 An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the
Lord shone around them, and they were terrified.
An angel appeared - because angels are messengers
Glory of the Lord shone - this is a detail not mentioned in
the previous stories. This is also the only group appearance
in the nativity story.
They were terrified - the normal human response to angels
appearing
10 But the angel said to them, “Do not be afraid. I bring you
good news that will cause great joy for all the people.
Good news - information about an event that has beneficial
ramifications for the listener
This is the same word for the "good news" of salvation
According to the Angels 2024 Page 32

This is the same word for the "good news" of salvation
about Jesus. The angel is literally preaching the "good
news" to the shepherds.
Cause great joy - the 'news' will be the cause; joy will be the
effect
Joy is often associate with salvation in Luke's writings.
This is the joy of salvation being preached to the
outcasts and lowly of society
For all people - the joyous effect will be all inclusive
Luke is likely hinting at the gentile inclusion in salvation;
he himself being a gentile author
11 Today in the town of David a Savior has been born to you; he
is the Messiah, the Lord.
Today - the angel is speaking of a current event [WHEN]
Town of David - they are outside the town in the moment
[WHERE]
Born to you - the event is the birth of a child [WHAT]
Savior/Messiah/Lord - the only time all three terms are
used together in Scripture [WHY]
Savior - His Mission
Messiah - His Title
Lord - His Authority
According to the Angels 2024 Page 33

This is the gospel in a nutshell, The Savior is Messiah and
King.
Though his title and authority would
be vindicated by His resurrection,
Jesus is born the Savior Messiah King!
12 This will be a sign to you: You will find a baby wrapped in
cloths and lying in a manger.”
This will be a sign - this is the way the shepherds would be
able to recognize the newly born Savior [HOW]
Baby wrapped in clothes - this would be normal; a sign of
motherly care
Lying in a manger - this would be unexpected
The key sign to find the Savior is to look for purity in the
place of impurity; find the divine in the dirty
13 Suddenly a great company of the heavenly host appeared
with the angel, praising God and saying,
Heavenly host - this is an appearance of a large group (host)
of angels declaring the birth of Jesus
14 “Glory to God in the highest heaven, and on earth peace to
According to the Angels 2024 Page 34

14 “Glory to God in the highest heaven, and on earth peace to
those on whom his favor rests.”
Glory to God - God is the author of these events; this birth
would ultimately bring glory to God
His favor rests - Luke uses this term as a synonym for the
salvation that the Savior came to bring
15 When the angels had left them and gone into heaven, the
shepherds said to one another, “Let’s go to Bethlehem and see
this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about.”
16 So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph, and the
baby, who was lying in the manger.
They hurried - Luke emphasizes the speed of obedience the
shepherds respond with
17 When they had seen him, they spread the word concerning
what had been told them about this child,
When they had seen him - Luke doesn't mention the first
visit; but immediately pivots to the sharing of the "good
news" by the shepherds with others
18 and all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds
said to them.
The Takeaway:
According to the Angels 2024 Page 35

The Takeaway:
The angel's message to the shepherds reminds us that the
Good News is the Savior Messiah King came to save everyone,
starting with the outcasts.
According to the Angels 2024 Page 36