Well, good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Whether you are worshiping with us here in our sanctuary in Wilmington or you are online, good morning and thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family. And as you just saw in the intro video, we are going to begin a brand new teaching series. This one's going to be multiple weeks. That's gonna be a little longer. It's probably six, seven weeks. We're gonna start it now. It's gonna carry us all the way into We're going to go back to the beginning of the book of Acts and walk through chapters one and chapter two verse by verse and try to really deep dive into what was the beginning of the early church. What was the beginning of our faith? What did it look like? A quick note, if you have the Catalyst app, if you open it up, there is sermon notes for you. So if you want to follow along, you want to be able to take notes, you want to be able to email yourself after the fact. Also inside the sermon notes in the app is where the question link is. So if you are listening this morning, we do Q&A at the end of my sermon. So if you would like to ask a question, you just tap in there, go into sermon notes. It's there. If you don't have the Catalyst app, you could go to C302.us slash ask and that will automatically take you to the online question form. Dr. Doug, if you could drop that link in the chat, that'd be great. But I want to get back to something that we haven't done in a while, because especially since we are going to be textually walking through the book of Acts, it's time to review the big Bible story. So hopefully some of you reviewed. So if you are new to Catalyst, this is an interactive part. We're going to start in the very beginning of the Bible and we're going to tell ourselves the story of the Bible and then we'll stop when we get to the beginning of Acts and we'll have the right frame. So everybody ready? All right, here we go. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. On to earth, he planted a garden at Eden. Into Eden, he made two human beings, Adam and Eve. Because of sin, Adam and Eve are ejected out of the garden and they begin to live life. Adam and Eve had two children, Cain and Abel. One killed the other and that just didn't go really well. So then sin continues to run rampant throughout creation. God is upset. He decides to send a flood, but before he sends the flood, he calls a man to build a boat called the Ark and he and his wife and his sons and their wives get on the Ark and are saved from the flood. That man's name is Noah. After Noah lands the Ark, the flood subsides. Humanity begins to regrow. God finds a man living in Mesopotamia and he says he's actually living in Ur of the Chaldeans in Mesopotamia and he says, listen, I will be your God and you will be my people. A mighty nation will come from you and you will bless the whole world and then God changes that man's name to Abraham. And then Abraham has two sons and God repeats the covenant promise. I will be your God, you will be my people, I will bless those who bless you, I will curse those who curse you. And to the younger of Abraham's two sons, who is the second patriarch or second covenant inheritor? Isaac. Isaac then has two sons or actually, yeah, Isaac has two sons. We repeat it again and who's the next son that it's repeated to? Jacob. Jacob then has more than two sons. He's got a bunch. Jacob has 13 sons and they become the 12 tribes of Israel, but the second youngest of Jacob's sons is sold into slavery by his brothers into Egypt. He's there for probably between 13 to maybe 20 years. He starts as a slave. He ends up being second command of all of Egypt and ends up saving his father, his brothers, and the entire clan from a famine. The man that God sold into slavery, who then became a governing ruler in Egypt is Joseph. And it's Joseph's story that brings to a close the book of Genesis. That was just Genesis. So then God's people move in to Egypt. Bonus points into the land of? Anybody starts with a G? Goshen. That's right. Into the land of Goshen. Why? Because the Egyptians didn't like shepherds. They were very like dirty nasty people and so God used their dislike of shepherds and Israel gets to move into its own little land and they kind of in an Egyptian incubator they grow. 400 years go by a Pharaoh who forgot who Joseph was. They enslaved God's people. God's people call out for a deliverer and God sends them a man who was born in the palace who was raised as a prince but then escaped and spent 40 years as a shepherd only to come back and tell Pharaoh let my people go. That man's name was? Moses. Moses' older brother's name is? Aaron. His older sister's name is? Miriam. God uses them and he redeems his people. We go at the ten plagues of Egypt. Ultimately God's people leave and they are stuck at a barrier. There's water in front of them and Pharaoh's army behind them and Moses picks the giant rod and he presses it into this body of water and it separates and they cross on dry ground. The name of the body of water is the? Red Sea. And ultimately God's people are saved. The water comes crashing down and kills on a whole lot of the Pharaoh's army and they're supposed to go to the promised land but unfortunately they don't. They have sin in their midst. They're disobedient. Moses is at the top of a mountain. He's receiving the law from God. They left. They went into Egypt as a family. They come out of Egypt as a nation. God is giving them the law that will codify their nation. Moses is at the top of the mountain and Aaron is at like the foot of the mountain and he's leading everybody in idolatry. The name of the mountain on which Moses received the law is Mount Sinai. So that's why we call that the Sinatic covenant or the Sinai covenant. He receives the law because of their disobedience. They have to wander in the wilderness for X number of years. During that number of years God allowed the the older generation or the generation that was leading the nation in idolatry. They died during that 40 years and the generation who did experience the ten plagues but as a child not as a leader are the ones who move into Canaan. How many years was the wilderness wandering? 40 years. That's right. So after 40 years the older generation has died off. They move into the land of Canaan and God raises up another young man to take Moses's place to be the new leader and he leads them across the Jordan River and into the land. What is the name of the young man who led the kingdom or the nation of Israel into the land of Canaan? Starts with a J. Joshua. Joshua then leads a series of military campaigns. You can see that in the book of Joshua. They win some, they sin and therefore lose some and ultimately they move into the land but they did not evict all the people who were there and so again they slip into idolatry. But notice there's a theme here. Humanity has a disobedience problem. They slip into idolatry and before you know it we're now into the judges period and the judges period is typified by the phrase everyone did what was right in their own eyes. That's right. Everybody decides for themselves what's righteous and what's not righteous and what pleases God and what doesn't please God and this ultimately leads to a full rejection of God's authority when they come and ask God for something like all the other kids have. Israel wanted something that all the other nations have. What did they want? A king. That's right. Israel rejects God as their king. He says no, excuse me, I want a human king. I want a human king. God's like oh I mean okay Steve that's what you want. I'm gonna go give it to you but this is what's gonna happen. He's going to conscript your sons into the army. He's gonna script your daughters into his harem. He's going to tax you and he does all of that. The first king of the United Monarchy of Israel, Saul. Second king of the United Monarchy of Israel, David. Third king, Solomon followed by civil war. That's right. So Saul, then David, then Solomon, then there is civil war and God's kingdom fractures. This is about midway through the Old Testament. God's people are now separated. There is a northern kingdom and a southern kingdom and this is probably the middle part of the Old Testament that most people get a little lost in because there's different lines of kings and there's different prophets who are going to different places but God's people are now living as separate kingdoms. The northern kingdom is named Israel and how many tribes are up here? Ten. The southern kingdom is named Judah and how many are down here? Two. That's right and ten plus two is? Good. Just making sure everybody's still doing math. So we have the northern kingdom of Israel, the southern kingdom of Judah. They live as separate kingdoms. They have wars. They have kings. They have prophets and ultimately they're still not living as God designed and God told them if you obey me you will stay in the land that I have given you. If you disobey me I'm gonna put you in timeout. That's the New International Bill version of what God said. So God has to put his children in timeout and about two-thirds through the Old Testament he brings in an external pagan nation that invades and defeats the northern kingdom of Israel and carries them off into captivity. The name of the first pagan nation God uses to discipline his children? Assyria. Assyria comes in and invades the northern kingdom of Israel carries them off into captivity. While they are in captivity Judah's still kind of down here doing its own thing. Judah had a couple good kings. They had some revival. So they get to last a little longer. While in Assyria, Assyria falls to a rising nation state that ultimately takes over. What is the name of the second pagan nation that defeated Assyria? Babylon. Babylon defeats Assyria and then comes in and invades the southern kingdom of Judah, conquers them and carries them away. So that's the story of Daniel right? Daniel was carried away as a young man into Babylon because Babylon had already defeated Assyria now Daniel gets carried away. While in Babylon you got Jeremiah who's at home in Jerusalem he writes a letter to all of the captives like yo bros girls you settle in you're gonna be here for 70 years. Mary raise your sons raise your daughters plant gardens do good for the city is the common phrase from that book do good for the city in 70 years I will come and get my people I'm good for it again that's a new international bill translation to Jeremiah. So then God after 70 years he gets ready to redeem his people and he does so by using a third pagan nation which defeats Babylon. What is the name of the pagan nation that overthrows Babylon? Persia. So Persia now overthrows Babylon and then the king of Persia issues a decree that lets everybody go home to whatever your homeland is and this starts the return the exilic return or the exile return actually happened in three stages there are three different caravans that eventually come home that's your book of that's your story of Nehemiah Esther takes place in Persia but during the same time period so they come home they begin to rebuild the walls that begin to rebuild the temple they restart living in God's land according to God's law and then we get to the end of the Old Testament God sends another prophet and he says listen I'm going to send you my anointed one that's what the word Messiah means it means God's chosen anointed one and you'll know it's him because I'm gonna send a forerunner ahead of him I'm gonna send one servant to prepare the way for the true Messiah who is to come that's the close of the Old Testament but then we have the silent years how many years of silence between Malachi and Matthew for 400 years God doesn't say anything to his people there's no new prophets there's no new scriptures they're just trying to live on the obedience that they inherited from their previous generations and then after 400 years well during that 400 years is a couple really important things that happen so during those 400 years Israel's free for a little while then Alexander the Great shows up and he conquers most of the middle of the world then he dies really young and his name his entire nation is divided up amongst his generals the Seleucid Empire ultimately takes over the area that you and I now know as Israel and then they fight and get away from them that's where the story of the revolt against the Seleucid Empire and then they're free for like 120 something years and then another very powerful nation state shows up and conquers most of the Mediterranean world preparing for the rival of Jesus what is the name of the fourth pagan nation that conquers the known world just before Jesus is born Rome Rome is now in charge they have conquered most of the Mediterranean they beat back Hannibal at Carthage they've taken over northern Africa they've basically killed the Phoenicians I mean these dudes were serious they took over a lot and it's into this that God's people begin to desire for their Messiah we want our freedom again restore to us the kingdom of David again and so they begin to cry out for their Messiah and God breaks his 400 year silence by sending an angelic visitor into the temple into the holiest place in the Holy of Holies in the temple in Jerusalem there is a priest who is chosen by lot basically you know by drawing straws he's chosen by lot and he is in the holiest place in Jerusalem and God sends him an angel and says you're gonna have a son you're gonna have a very special son because he will be the forerunner of the Messiah what is the name of the priest who received the first angelic message breaking God's silence Zechariah what's the name of his wife Elizabeth see I don't normally ask you that Megan I got to keep coming up questions because you guys are getting all the good ones right so then Zechariah and Elizabeth have a child the forerunner of the Messiah whose name is John the Baptist and John grows up and he stays out in the wilderness and he's a little weird eats locusts and wild honey and he preaches a gospel of repentance repent repent turn what does repent mean it means to turn away from turn away from that which was turned back to God and John the Baptist prepares the way and God sends another angel to a young woman pledged to be married to a man named Joseph who had not yet consummated her marriage but ended up being found pregnant by the power of the Holy Spirit and the angel said do not worry for your child will be the Holy One of God the name of the mother of God's Savior is Mary that's the Christmas story so then Jesus is born he begins to grow up we don't have much of Jesus's early childhood life because it's ultimately not germane to the gospel story then Jesus begins his ministry around age 30 I'm not saying at age 30 I'm a say around there's a good amount of theological debate on exactly how long Jesus's ministry was you've got some people who are two and a half years and some people are all the way to four years kind of depends on how you count holidays and come up Jesus has his ministry he begins to teach about the coming kingdom of God this is a problem because Rome already has a king and they're not looking for a new one so ultimately the Jewish leaders realize that if they continue to let this Nazarene preacher preach we don't have a problem so the Jewish ruling class and the teachers use Rome they manipulate Rome to ultimately kill this upstart Nazarene preacher and in fact it's in the Gospels there one of the one of the guys in the Sanhedrin and I forget who it was who stood up and he's like listen we've had other people who thought they were the Messiah this is the New International Bill version so you're not gonna find it if you search for it and like listen we've had other people who thought they were Messiah they showed up we killed him and it died out let's just do the same thing we'll just get rid of this Jesus guy so they kill Jesus on the holiday of Passover which is incredibly symbolic they think it's over the disciples are all in hiding three days later on what we now celebrate as Easter Sunday morning a group of women not disciples and not dudes women go to the temple or not to the temple they go to the tomb because they want to re-anoint Jesus's body with more spices and they find the empty tomb they find the resurrection of Jesus the foundational element of Christianity and they are told go get my disciples and tell them I'll meet them in Galilee Galilee's up where Nazareth is it's where Peter James John Andrew where they're all from they're all rednecks they're all back in the sticks so he's like yo go meet me in the sticks and Jesus stays on earth in resurrected form for 40 days this is where we enter the story of the Bible today I need you to see all of that to get us in the right frame of reference so now let me give you the key thought that's going to wrap all these messages together and then we're gonna jump into the beginning of the book of Acts here's your key thought the book of Acts records how Jesus mission continues through his spirit empowered disciples the book of Acts records how Jesus's mission continues through his spirit empowered disciples so this morning we're gonna look at the first 14 verses of the book of Acts I would like to read it for you and then after we read all 14 we'll go back and we'll chop it up and if you're following the sermon notes just scroll past everything else we're gonna read the text first so here we go Acts chapter 1 starting in verse 1 in my former book Theophilus I wrote about all that Jesus began to do and teach until the day he was taken up to heaven after giving instructions through the Holy Spirit to the Apostles he had chosen after his suffering he presented himself to them and gave many convincing proofs that he was alive he appeared to them over a period of 40 days and spoke about the kingdom of God on one occasion while he was eating with them he gave them this command do not leave Jerusalem but wait for the gift my father promised which you have heard me speak about then they gathered around him and asked Lord are you at this time going to restore the kingdom in Israel he said to them it is not for you to know the times or dates the father has set by his own authority but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem in all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth after he had said this he was taken up before their eyes and a cloud hid him from their sight they were looking intently up to the skies he was going when suddenly two men dressed in white stood beside them men of Galilee they asked why do you stand here looking into the sky this same Jesus who has been taken from you into heaven will go back in the same way you have seen him go into heaven then the Apostles returned to Jerusalem from the hill called the Mount of Olives a Sabbath days walk from the city when they arrived they went upstairs to the room where they were staying those present were Peter John James and Andrew Philip and Thomas Bartholomew and Matthew James the son of Alpheus Simon the zealot and Judas son of James they all joined together constantly in prayer along with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus and with his brothers now that's all we're gonna look at today next Sunday we'll pick it up at verse 15 so let's go back to this beginning because there's a lot of really good stuff in here so verse 1 1 in my former book stop who wrote the book of Acts dr. Luke did so if dr. Luke wrote the book of Acts what book is he referring to when he says in my former book he's looking to the gospel of Luke now we as the modern-day church have done a disservice by separating Luke acts in your Bible you look at the table of contents for the New Testament you see Matthew Mark Luke John then acts Luke acts is really a sequel and a prequel it is a two-part book so to speak that really should be studied together and here's why when he opens with this in my former book he doesn't give the purpose statement he doesn't give the purpose of the opening because he already gave it to you now it's not gonna be on the screen but in your notes Luke chapter 1 I just want to read you the opening of Luke because this is actually the opening of Luke acts Luke knew he was writing two pieces we've separated his book in our in our modern day Bible so here it is this is Luke verses chapter 1 verses 1 to 4 many have taken up or many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have fulfilled among us just as they were handed down by us to those from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the first of the word with this in mind since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning I too decided to write an orderly account for you most excellent theophilus so that you may know the certainty of the things you have been taught that's the opening of the gospel of Luke verses 1 through 4 notice now in acts go back to acts 1 in my former book theophilus he is writing to the same recipient therefore it is the same purpose so what is the purpose statement of Luke acts I have carefully investigated so you will know the truth of what you have been taught that is dr. Luke's opening he has recorded for us in acts so we will know the truth of what he has been taught now what is the truth back to the the back part of acts 1 1 in my former book theophilus I wrote about all that Jesus began to do and teach notice that in the opening sentence of the book of acts Luke is saying listen the Gospels are what Jesus began to do and to teach what does that automatically imply that Jesus's teaching is not done Jesus's ministry is not over Jesus's mission is not complete just because the gospel is complete acts is the continuation of that so verse 1 all that Jesus began to do and to teach verse 2 until the day he was taken up to heaven so now we are saying that the gospel of Luke is all that Jesus began to do and to teach until the day he was taken up in heaven why is that significant because at the day of the ascension which is what we call the day where Jesus left the earth it's not at his resurrection he resurrected instead on earth for 40 more days then he ascended into heaven then there's a waiting period about 10 days between the ascension and the day of Pentecost now those of you who are in the notes in the app these dates are in there for you you guys know I like my dates so I believe that the resurrection of Jesus occurred on Sunday April the 9th of a d30 you would like more details about why I believe that just let me know on your connect card and I'll lay up the you basically have two choices it was either an 80 30 or was an 80 33 man there are good arguments going both ways so this is not a cool to die on for me but after reading both arguments after looking at both sides I'm in the 80 30 camp I welcome you to disagree with me if you like but since I'm in the 80 30 camp and Jim it's my sermon I get to do the math the way I want to do the math so if the resurrection of Jesus occurred on Sunday April the 9th a d30 and Jesus taught on earth for 40 more days after that that means the ascension of Jesus or the moment where Jesus returned from earth to his heavenly father occurred on Thursday may the 18th of a d30 right that's just resurrection plus 40 gets me to May Thursday May the 18th and then he told them wait 10 days right said wait in Jerusalem for the Holy Spirit which fell on Pentecost which would have been Sunday May 28th of a d30 so if you want to know what is the birthday of the Christian Church what is the day that the Christian Church first received the Holy Spirit if and I'll say that is a big if Maria if the resurrection of Jesus occurred on Sunday April the 9th of a d30 as I believe it did then that means Jesus ascended to heaven on Thursday May the 18th and Pentecost the birth of the church that you and I are a part of occurred on Sunday May the 28th of a d30 now if you set a different starting date for the resurrection then obviously you can do your own back but this is why this is important gee you have to understand that on the day of the crucifixion the disciples were afraid they were in hiding because they're like dude if Rome's gonna kill Jesus he's coming for us next and then after the resurrection they went from being scared hiding fishermen to bold proclaimers of the gospel who almost all of them exclusively were tortured and killed for the message of Jesus this is one of the unexplainable historical facts if you deny the resurrection of Jesus you have to explain the transformation of the disciples John what turned them from scared little puppies to bold gospel proclaimers who were willing to die were they all just stupid were they all just hallucinating were they all just misled were they all just lying it becomes really really hard to explain generation after generation of martyrs who died for a message if there was no resurrection it's one of one of my favorite facts about the resurrection if the resurrection didn't happen explain the explosive growth of the church explain the transformation of the disciples to go from despair and fear to death to proclaim I find myself unworthy to die the way my Savior died that's a transformation that requires explanation but he tells them in verse two the final instruction after giving instructions through the Holy Spirit the Apostles he had chosen verse 3 after his suffering he presented himself to them he gave many convincing proofs that he was alive this is Jesus in his post resurrected form Jen go and look right here I'm here here's my hand here's my side what I love about this verse is as an apologist as somebody whose faith is built on evidence Jesus gave evidence first he's like Jim you don't just have to take it on faith I'm right here by the way go catch me some fish let's eat Jesus offered verse 3 many not just one one you can explain away as a card trick or smoke and mirrors many convincing proofs that he was alive you appear to them over a period of 40 days and he spoke more about the kingdom of heaven the first thing I need you to understand as we walk into the book of Acts is that Jesus's mission which began in the gospel continues in the book of that the mission of Jesus point a in your notes if you're following the mission of Jesus is ongoing the mission of Jesus did not stop at the resurrection the mission transferred hands like Vic it's no longer Jesus on earth now it's us the mission transferred hands but the mission of Jesus is ongoing here's letter B in your notes the mission of Jesus requires the Holy Spirit take a look at verse 4 on one occasion this means while he's teaching in his post-resurrected form on one occasion while he was eating with them thanks Jim for lunch he gave them this command do not leave Jerusalem but wait for the gift my father promised which you heard me speak about just put your put your brain picture hat on for a minute tune the big you know screen TV in your mind this is post-resurrection you are sitting in the very presence of Jesus having come back from the dead and he's still teaching you about the kingdom of God you know it's interesting scripture does not record what Jesus taught during these 40 days scripture teaches us in the gospel what he taught during his earthly ministry but it doesn't teach what he taught during his 40 days I got I got to be honest even it's one of the I want to sit down with John I'm like yo what was that like I mean just put your like sometimes we forget that the people in scripture are human being what was it like to watch Jesus be tortured be beaten to watch him die for Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea to have taken his body and buried it in the tomb and then like a week later he's like Vic past the fish hey who's got the rest of the hummus give me some Jesus is sitting at a table eating lunch did you get the olives from the guy on 6th Street you know those are not good olives I just came back from the dead can we get better olives like there's a human humanity here that we missed because we're so quick to look at the divinity of Jesus he's eating with them and he tells them everything that I've taught you don't leave yet you're still not ready they learned from the risen Son of God but Ray they weren't ready yet they had all of the knowledge they had all of the teachings but they didn't have the final element that would be required for the mission of Jesus so don't leave Jerusalem you must wait for the gift my father promised which you have heard me speak about this verse more than any other and and for those of you who like thinking and like doctrine like apologetics this is gonna sting Christianity cannot live on doctrine alone it was never designed to the words of Jesus said it's not enough without the spirit even if you have my teachings even if you witnessed my miracles even if you're gonna quote my sermon on the mount don't leave Jerusalem until you receive the gift my father has promised and it's the relationship between spirit and teaching that has plagued the church for centuries you got some church that are super heady or super theological and they can be kind of cold because everything's just a calculated spreadsheet of what beliefs are and you got other other churches over here that are super spiritual they're super sticky they're super emotional and they lack quality teaching there was a great book written a few years ago called oh come on help me mail the blue and white one by RT Kendall got a sailboat on the cover the word and the spirit good job no word in the spirit by RT Kendall and in this book he opens with this analogy of a sailboat out in the middle of the ocean a sailboat has a very large sail in order to catch the wind to catch the energy but if the sailboat did not also have the rudder that is beneath the surface of the water then it would not be able to properly direct the energy that comes from the sail Kendall then went on to explain that it is their sail that catches the wind of the spirit but the rudder that directs by doctrine and it's when a church has both when a church has the power in the wind of the spirit and also a strong understanding of scriptures teaching because here's the truth the spirit who wrote the word of God cannot lead you in a way that is divergent from his word the infilling of the Holy Spirit is the same spirit who wrote the word if we're living by the word we should also be living by the spirit and if we're living by the spirit we should see the fruit of the spirit in obedience to the word of the spirit through the activity in the ministry of the spirit dr. Chris kind of ruined the opening point for my sermon this week if you were here last week when he talked about the the full-length title the book of acts is acts of the anybody but what have you heard acts of the Apostles how many people heard that actually possible very popular how many people heard acts of the Holy Spirit right probably only if you've been around a more Pentecostal cares my church I would argue it's the acts of the Holy Spirit through the working of the Apostle because right here verse 4 he said goes don't go anywhere yet you have to wait for the gift that my father has promised we as a church cannot live by doctrine alone we cannot live by apologetics alone John I love you you're gonna be in my corner right but we can't live by apologetics alone we can't live by convincing arguments and evidence alone because Jesus never designed his church to do that Jesus designed his church to be able to qualify and teach his teaching and ministry by the spirit to obey the spirit and know the word as Kendall put it we've got to be a strong boat we need to catch the wind of the sail and have the hand on the rudder because if you just catch the wind and you don't have a rudder you'll just be going with the waves you'll be with the flow every here and there and you'll never get what you're trying to do he tells them in verse 4 but wait for the gift and then verse 5 he qualifies what the gift is going to be for John baptized with water but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit now you have to understand that the people that Jesus is speaking to are largely Jewish there's quite possibly some Gentile conversion already happening but let's just say it's majority Jewish so the word baptize is going to be very clear in their vernacular a baptism is a submersion or a complete immersion in a thing in the Old Testament they would baptize or they would dunk they would sanctify certain objects for use in the temple and you weren't allowed to use it anywhere else this is the Old Testament Jewish understanding of baptism that gets imported into the New Testament that's why as a church we baptized by immersion because it's the only biblical example does that not mean historically that you can see the baptism done other ways yes but when Jesus uses the word baptize here for John baptized John completely immersed people in water in a few days you will be baptized or you will be completely immersed in the Holy Spirit who is the Holy Spirit he is the third member of the Godhead third member of the Trinity this is the second member of the Trinity saying you are not ready to do my mission if you don't have if you're not completely immersed if you are not filled all and baptized in the Holy Spirit and verse 6 makes me laugh then they gathered around him and asked um Jesus are you gonna restore the kingdom now Jesus is talking about the single greatest gift humanity has ever been given and they don't get it I love that Sean I love the fact that they're so human that Luke records that they can't see past their own vision their own expectations their own understanding of what they want from God to be able to see what he's trying to give them then they gathered around said Lord are you at this time going to restore the kingdom Israel the disciples did not understand in this moment what Jesus was saying they were looking at Jesus through their own lens culturally what did they want they want him to beat back the Romans right they want him to go knock Caesar off his throne give us our Davidic land back re-establish the kingdom of Israel give us our borders let's put Israel and Judah back together like we lost in the days of anybody who was the last king the United Mark Israel good job make sure he's listening they wanted a restored kingdom and an earthly empire Jesus wanted to begin his inaugural kingdom and his spiritual empire so in verse 7 he said it is not for you to know the times or dates the father has set by his own authority here's what I love about the answer in verse 7 Jerry he didn't say yes or no you notice that they ask in verse 6 are you at this time going to restore the kingdom of Israel and Jesus his answer is it's not for you to know that notice he didn't say no and he didn't say yes why because he's trying to get them back on track the question itself is wrong now one could argue did Jesus begin the spiritual kingdom of God at his resurrection absolutely I think that's a perfectly arguable point is the spiritual kingdom of God ruling and reigning on earth today that depends on your theological position some argue the church is the kingdom of God I submit you know because I think the book of Revelation clearly states that Jesus is going to return and set up an earthly kingdom but that's because I'm a Revelation futurist and if you want to debate that let me know on your connect card it is not for you to know the dates or times the father has set by his own authority and then verse 8 bring it back around he goes no no no guys over here over here over here look verse 8 you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and all Judea Samaria and to the ends of the earth all right I already picked on my apologist friends so now for my Pentecostal charismatic friends let's talk about this you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on the purpose of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer is to give you access to power that you would not have as a mortal human being however that power is not for you to use how you see fit this is not like Harry Potter right you're not just gonna get the Holy Spirit that's not what we do the purpose of the power of the Holy Spirit is for the mission of Jesus to be a witness period full stop the power of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer is for the purpose of being a witness a witness of who a witness of Jesus for why for the mission that he set forth in the Gospels that continues today through the spirit through the life of his people you see how all this goes together this is all the massive opening to the organization the organism that you and I are a part of as the church but you will receive power stop thinking about your earthly kingdom stop thinking about your earthly priorities and start thinking about the power that comes from the Holy Spirit for the purpose of being a witness for my Pentecostal charismatic friends the power of the Holy Spirit is not for you to feel the oogie boogies in worship the power of the Holy Spirit is not for you to feel good about man that track was awesome and I got to say I absolutely think the worship team played a bunch of bangers today it was great I was I was jamming out the sound booth one of the reasons why I'm not allowed to sit on the front rows I would be very distracting ADHD bill is a full access worship person but that's not the purpose of the Holy Spirit that might be one way that we sense him that might be one way that we feel him and my say we don't feel the Holy Spirit no we absolutely feel him but feeling him is not his purpose Jesus said you will receive power to be witnesses in Jerusalem Judea Samaria the ends of the earth Dr. Chris talked about this last week but if you were to look at a map Jerusalem is the dead center of Israel where's Samaria next step out you are excuse me Jerusalem Judea wider than the next country up Samaria wider ends of the earth wider Jesus is saying the power of the Holy Spirit will be used to be why witnesses starting in Jerusalem and carrying all the way to the end of the earth our mission is hinging on Jesus's mission from the from the Gospels powered by the Holy Spirit see Jesus's mission continues in his physical absence after this or excuse me after he said this this is verse 9 after he said this he was taken up before their eyes and a cloud hit him from their sight the word taken up there literally means up in placement or up in view it means they did this that's what I mean it's literal place he was taken up in placement taken up in their view and a cloud hit him from their sight and then he gets a verse 10 and there I mean that cloud getting your way to you still see him right to the point that verse 10 they were looking intently into the skies he was going and then suddenly two men in white stood behind him who are the men in white these are angelic these are two angels that God sent this is really funny to me I don't know if it's gonna be funny to anybody else but I just need you to see this picture Jesus has just finished giving one of the most important missiological instructions to all of his disciples go to Jerusalem and wait for the power of the Holy Spirit and they're just doing this can y'all still see him like is he coming back like now should we get a snack James you know he hates those olives we get different like they're literally haven't moved they're still staring at the ceiling and I just have to imagine Jesus Jesus gets to heaven he's looking down and he's like I told him to go Michael handle this right there they're not being obedient they're just still there staring at the sky Jesus is looking down going y'all Jerusalem's over there so God sends these two angels and in verse 11 they address the disciples who are still there still just staring up in the sky men of Galilee why do you stand here looking in the sky so now Jesus is ascended in heaven and they're staring so much that there are now angels standing on either side and the angels so up yeah down there why right God has to send the angels he gets them why do you stay here looking in the sky and now they fill in the blank this same Jesus who has been taken from you into heaven he will come back in the same way you have seen him go into heaven this is the church's expectation of the return of Christ Jesus will return in the same fashion that he left but what I love about the fact how human this is we skip it so fast the disciples wanted to stay in that moment more than they wanted to obey and do what he said they just want to be right here and that makes so much sense to me because there's been times where I totally saw God do something really awesome and I'd rather just stay here and look at it I'd rather just stay in that moment right in that moment of worship or in that moment of learning something new my focus isn't supposed to be here but God that was so awesome let me just stay here for an extra minute and then a minute turns into five and then before I know it my desire to stay in the moment has caused me to be disobedient for my director that's exactly what they did and so much so that they're sitting here staring and God sends them the angels he's like listen you will see him come back go and obey that brings us to letter D I need you to see that Jesus's mission includes all his followers take a look at verse 12 then the Apostles returned to Jerusalem the angels finally corrected him and now Vic we're gonna go back okay fine what did he say to go do he said don't leave Jerusalem okay let's just go back to Jerusalem then thanks guys fist bump to the angel angel goes back to heaven and now they're back on track they're gonna be obedient then the Apostles returned to Jerusalem from a hill called the Mount of Olives a Sabbath days walk from the city Sabbath days walk that does not mean this happened on a Sabbath what it means is on the Sabbath they were only allowed to walk so far and so they're using it as a measure of distance not a measure of time Sabbath days walk from the city 13 when they arrived they went upstairs to the room where they were staying stop let's talk about why they went upstairs in the first century the majority of the buildings that were constructed the smaller because it's the walls that that make the first floor room that covers over the second floor the second floor was most likely the roof with high walls on it and that's where larger meetings would take place you could also rent that space out students might go up there to study definitely the church went up there to pray that's where they're at so that's why they have to go upstairs is because the buildings they built in that day the first floor would have smaller rooms because all of the walls that make up the smaller rooms are what's supporting the roof and the larger structure upstairs then we get a list of who's there Peter John James Andrew Philip Thomas Bartholomew Matthew James son of alphys Simon the zealot and Judas the son of James and then I want you to see verse 14 they all joined together constantly in prayer along with the women and marry the mother of Jesus and with his brother so this is where the rubber really needs to meet the road the disciples are now done staring at the cloud they're back on earth they're back on track they're back on mission they're doing exactly what Jesus told them to do they're now praying on the second floor of a home in Jerusalem now some people have tried to figure out well whose house are they at I'm not super certain there is enough biblical data to for sure establish whose house it is but I can give you one possible choice two weeks ago we looked at a passage where a large group of church members in Acts chapter 12 were praying for Peter because it was in Jerusalem and he had been taken hostage that's the house of John Mark his mother was also named Mary and he wrote the gospel of Mark is it possible that they are actually at John Mark's house in this moment right it's totally possible is there enough biblical data for me to rule out all the other options no there's not there just isn't there what we know is there is a large group of believers there in within the city walls of Jerusalem and they are praying and they're finally doing what Jesus said which is waiting on the Holy Spirit but the most interesting part is the very last part can you Eric can I have the end of verse 14 again they all join together constantly in prayer look who else is there along with the women I need you to understand ladies there were women in the group of first disciples we know that for certain just because they're not named doesn't mean they're not there it says with the women but then there's a specific group mentioned Mary the mother of Jesus and with his brother so who's the his his is Jesus so then who are the brothers the brothers are his biological half-brothers the other children of Mary and Joseph the carpenter one of whom is James the half-brother of Jesus who becomes the leader at the Church of Jerusalem you know what's super interesting about the end of verse 14 it doesn't tell us if at this point Mary and the brothers of Jesus are believers it doesn't tell us that I would submit to you that if I watch someone torture and die on the cross and then come back in full glorified form I'm going to accept what they say is true Jesus said he was God bam we're in so it's very believable to me that Mary and all of his brothers are now full believers that Christ is God if not I guess I would say with or with interesting it's quite possibly the only biblical reference to Jesus appearing to non-believers in his resurrected state everything else was Jesus teaching his followers meet me in Galilee let's sit eat let me teach you about the kingdom of God but here this last little section at the end of verse 14 that you'd be tempted to just dodge past Mary the mother of Jesus she's mentioned by name I would submit to you that she was a believer she heard about Jesus's mission before Jesus was born but it's the brothers is it possible that James who becomes the leader at the Church of Jerusalem becomes a believer in his brother is God during the 40 days between the resurrection and the ascension yeah this verse makes that completely possible now can I promise it to you Steve I can't there's no there's no verse in the Bible that tells me for certain James got saved on ABC date but what this verse does tell me is by this point which is 40 days after the resurrection or if I go back here by this point on Thursday May the 18th of AD 30 Jesus's mother and his half brothers which likely also includes any sisters he may have had because they only listed male family members they are with the disciples and the early believers praying and waiting on the Holy Spirit that to me is so cool you know why there's a lot of people who like to ask well if it's the church's mission to save everyone how does how does people get saved who we can't get to that that prevent that person on an island question right there's a philosophical island where no other human being has ever been if no one can preach the gospel there how is that person going to get saved this is quite possibly biblical plausibility that Jesus himself can't appear directly to a non-believer and draw them to him I could backfill that with the Apostle Ball right Saul's traveling on the road to Damascus getting ready to throw folk in jail and Jesus just appeared to him and said by the way you're gonna work for me now congratulations welcome to the team we'll have a meeting on Friday right Jesus just appeared you can go and Google it Google the man in white in the Middle East and you'll begin to discover plenty of stories of Jesus appearing directly to Muslim declaring his Godship my son-in-law had a similar dramatic experience in a dream I'd love to tell you that I was a part of his conversion and all of my fancy apologetic collegiate training helped convince him that Jesus is God nothing is better than Jesus himself saying I am God period end of story like Pastor Bill just needs to take a break Jesus got it from there the mission that you and I are on is a direct continuation of Jesus's earthly mission powered by the Holy Spirit to bring about the kingdom of God and this is just the first 14 verse so let me go ahead and give you your takeaway and then Mel if you can get ready with Mike start sending you my questions I'd like to do questions for like maybe seven or eight minutes here's your takeaway Jesus's mission is carried out by his spirit empowered followers today just as it was in the first days of the church Jesus's mission is carried out by spirit empowered followers today your job your mission is to carry and be a witness for Jesus empowered by the Holy Spirit to the audience that you come across and that's gonna be different than the audience that I come across it's gonna be different from the audience that mr. Phil comes across it's gonna be different from the audience that mr. Rod comes across that's the point that's the purpose the kind of people that Steve knows are probably not the same kind of people that Jim knows let's be honest the kind of people that Maria sees at work are not the same as the kind of people that Megan sees at work this is why we all have to carry the spirit empowered mission because you are a continuation as Luke said of all that Jesus began to do and to teach you're a part of that and that's why we should study the book of Acts