Welcome to catalyst my name is bill to all of you who are joining us online and everyone who is here good morning Thank you for joining us and being a part of our worship today I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here get that so it's not sliding all over my face And as you saw in the video, we are going to be continuing our study in the first two chapters of the book of Acts So we started a few weeks ago and we're just literally reading the book of Acts and walking through it step by step so You're gonna have to take this out of those floor monitors, so it's gonna be really loud There we go Everybody hear me. Okay now, I mean you got me. Okay for the live stream fantastic Let me give you the key thought that's gonna hold all of these messages together and that is this the book of Acts records how Jesus's mission continues through his Spirit empowered disciples if you asked me to come up with what my singular statement if I could give you one statement That describes what is happening during the book of Acts that's what it is the book of Acts records how Jesus's mission continues through his spirit empowered disciples Now this morning's text is going to be Acts chapter 2 the first 13 verses But before we get there I want us to walk through the big Bible story and remind ourselves of Where we're at in the overall arc of the Bible So if this is your first time with us a catalyst whether you're here or you're joining us online This is an interactive part I'm gonna start asking questions and that person's name is and that thing was and it's gonna be fill in the blank and everybody's He yells out the answers and this is how we make sure everybody's awake and engaged in church. So in the beginning the spirit of God hovered over the waters and God created the heavens and the Earth onto the earth God planted a garden at a specific place called Eden then get into Eden. He planted two human beings Adam and Eve Adam and Eve willfully disobey the will of God are rejected from the garden and then they have to begin living in now a corrupt or a cursed creation Humanity begins to spread sin is not too far along. We made it to four people and had a murderer I saw somebody say at one point 33% of humanity was a murderer if all we had was Adam and Eve and Cain then 33% of humanity were killers That's very interesting and humanity continues to spread and sin continues to become a problem To the point that God regrets that he made humanity and in Acts chapter 9 God says he's gonna send a flood and he calls out to one specific righteous man tells that man to build an ark that man's name is Noah Noah his wife his sons and their wives they board the ark it rains 40 days 40 nights water covers the face of the earth for More than a year if I remember correctly, I know we studied the flood but that's like Claudia I've slept like twice since then so then the flood waters recede they leave the ark humanity gets a restart and unfortunately It's not too far along Before God sin continues to run rampant and now God calls out to one specific guy He's living in Mesopotamia in a place called er you are of the Chaldeans and he says I'm gonna be your God and you're Gonna be my people. I'm gonna bless those who bless you. I'm gonna curse those who curse you we're gonna build a nation from your descendants and your descendants will bless the whole world and God turns that man's name into Abraham that's right. That's why we call that the Abrahamic covenant because God made an everlasting covenant with a dude named Abraham Then Abraham has two sons and God repeats that same promise that a mighty nation is gonna come from you I'll be your God You'll be my people and he repeats it to the younger of Abraham's two sons whose name is Isaac Isaac becomes the second covenant inheritor and then Isaac has two sons and God repeats the covenant promises again to his younger son whose name is Jacob and that's why Abraham Isaac and Jacob are the three patriarchs of the Jewish people and of the entire Hebrew race because God made his covenant with Abraham and his son Isaac and his son Jacob and Then Jacob has multiple wives and multiple kids and those kids become who we now call the 12 tribes of Israel today However, the second youngest you know, it's a theme here with younger right? Oh that miss Helen younger people are always problem children If you're an only child you get to have the honor of the oldest kid and all the trouble of the younger kid I just how I feel about that. So The second youngest of Jacob's children get sold into slavery by his older brothers. Yes, he was probably talking some smack No, I don't think we should sell our relatives into slavery So if you have siblings, let's take that off the table as a positive option to emulate from Scripture But they sell his brother into Scripture. He or excuse me sell his brother into slavery He goes into Egypt as a slave He's there for maybe 13 to 17 years and then he rises up through the ranks through his character and God blessing and opening doors And he becomes second in charge of the entire nation and in his position He is at the right place at the right time for God to do the right thing and he saves his entire family from a famine that young man's name is Joseph that's right. Then Joseph brings his whole family into the land of Goshen in Egypt and they live there That's what I call the Egyptian incubator while the children of Israel are living in Egypt They are protected by the world's largest military power of their day The Egypt was the largest military power It was the largest economic power and so God uses the pagan nation of Egypt to protect His people as they continue to grow and be blessed until is Egypt got jealous of Israel and became worried that they would be a threat to their safety and they enslave Israel and They begin to kill and murder their children and they cry out for a deliverer and God hears the prayers of his people He knows that he promised them In fact, if you go back and read in Genesis 12 13 and 14 God told Abraham I'm gonna send them there and then they're gonna get mistreated and I'm gonna come back from our kids So they cry out for a deliverer and God sends them a man who's born in the palace Who's educated and then flees to the land of Midian and lives as a shepherd for 40 years and then he comes back And he stands in front of Pharaoh and he says let my people go that man's name is Moses Moses becomes the deliverer of God's people. He leads them out of Egypt That's where you see the ten plagues of Egypt ultimately they make it to a very large body of water and they're trapped with the water in front and Pharaoh's army in pursuit and behind and Moses takes the staff of God and he dips it into this body of water And it parts and they walk across on dry ground the name of the body of water is the Red Sea God's children walk across the Red Sea on dry ground As soon as all of these Israelites have made it past Pharaoh sends his army into the breach to chase after them The waters crash down and kill a large majority of Pharaoh's army. I need to make a small caveat last week I made mention of the discovery of chariot wheels at the bottom of the Red Sea and Somebody emailed me and asked for the source and we had a very interesting email discussion back and forth That source has never been independently verified. So I just want to add a little caveat I can't prove to you that that data point is true. That doesn't mean that that person's wrong It just means that when you live in the world of independent verification where two or more people can confirm something that discovery Nobody ever went back to verify it. So it came out of the late 90s in biblical archaeology But I just want to preface that because I said it's so clear because in my mind my ADHD mind I can see the picture that was posted online and that's how I remember things as in pictures So that doesn't mean it isn't there. It just means there's been no independent verification that those chariot wheels were discovered So archaeologically it's more suspect than some of the other things some of the other evidence that I'll bring you in the message So then we make it across the Red Sea We make it to the foot of a very special mountain Moses goes up the mountain to receive the law from God and the children Israel at the bottom of the mountain engaging in idolatry The name of the mountain on which Moses received God's law is Mount Sinai he's at the top of Mount Sinai. That's what we call the law the Sinaitic Covenant So he receives the law on Mount Sinai He comes down and God's people are already being disobedient again And so then is punishment for their disobedient God puts his children in a timeout and they have to wander in the wilderness so that the entire adult leading generation Who experienced the ten plagues of Egypt and led them across the Red Sea is not permitted to move into the promised land That God had for them. They wander in the wilderness for how many years? For 40 years they wander in the wilderness This is the book of numbers tells you all about this period of time They wander in the wilderness until that older generation has now died off and a younger generation rises up to take its place And God calls another young man to take Moses his place and to lead the children of Israel Across the River Jordan and into the promised land to receive the blessing They should have received on their way out of Egypt But they took a 40 year wrong turn because of their disobedience the name of the young man who is Moses's successor and now leads the children of Israel into the land of Canaan is Joshua Joshua leads the children of Israel into Canaan. He rededicates them to the law That's what the book of Deuteronomy means second law So the book of Deuteronomy teaches all about the second law then you get to Joshua they move in and now they have moved into the land and they still have a disobedience problem and this brings us to the judges period where everybody did what was right in their own Eyes everybody did their own thing. It was the you do you boo book of the whole Bible is the book of judges and What's interesting about this book is God's people would be wayward and then some external power would come in and And would step on them and they would cry out and say Lord Lord Please help me and then God would raise somebody up and the Holy Spirit would empower them and they would free God's people from from either the Philistines or whichever group it was And then they would just do that over and over and over and that's what the entire book of judges is is this cycle of disobedience leading to Repentance leading to a deliverer whose spirit empowered to save them to disobedience repentance deliver disobedience repentance deliver Over and over and over that's the book of judges then finally the children of Israel get to a mass point where they reject the authority of God and They ask God for something that they were never supposed to have But they want because all the other kids have it all the other kingdoms have it What did Israel ask God for that they weren't supposed to have a human king? That's right. God says okay, if you want a human king, I'm gonna give it to you, but you're not gonna like it He's gonna tax you he's gonna take your boys in his army. It's gonna take your girls in his harem It's not gonna be good for you But it's what you asked for so now you're gonna get it And so he gives them the very first king and interestingly enough Even in the fact that the first king is is disobedient. He's filled with the Holy Spirit I need you to know that he is filled with the Holy Spirit and chosen to be the leader the name of the man who was selected to be the first king of the United Monarchy of Israel is Saul and then Saul is disobedient and God has to replace him and God chooses a little boy Who was the youngest of all his brothers? He was out in the field learned how to shepherd God's people ultimately defeats a really big guy in battle It's like a big story. The second king of the United Monarchy of Israel is David David writes at least 25 to 30 percent of the book of Psalms didn't write all of them you can see that in the book there are other Psalms other than just David and Then David is disobedient even being a man after God's own heart even being able to be filled with the Holy Spirit and write parts of Scripture David is still a sinful disobedient man and then when he dies his son takes over as the third king of the United Monarchy of Israel is Solomon and then Solomon is wicked and disobedient and brings a whole lot of other worldviews in and after Solomon what happens? Civil war civil war breaks out in God's people and they split into two different nations the northern nation of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah and this is the part most people don't know in the middle of the Old Testament. There are two completely different groups the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah how many tribes are up here? Ten how many are down here? That's good Everybody's still good at math ten in the north two in the south and they operate as two separate kingdoms and God sends Prophets to both the southern kingdom repents a little bit more than the northern kingdom does which is why finally God says listen My rules were simple if you want to live in my house You have to obey my rules That just sounds like every other parent who's ever been a parent if you want to live in the promised land you have to live According to God's law they don't live according to God's law. So guess what? I'm gonna put you in time out. That's what I do. So God uses an external pagan nation He brings them in and they invade the northern kingdom of Israel and carry them off into captivity the name of the pagan nation that overthrew Israel is Assyria while they are in captivity Judah's still down here still kind of self-managing because it did have some kings who brought in repentance and brought them back So they got to stay a little bit longer while Israel is being captured by Assyria Assyria falls to a rising pagan nation state who takes over Assyria and that name is Babylon Babylon then comes in and invades the southern kingdom of Judah defeats them and carries them off into captivity That's the book of Daniel takes place during that time Daniel Shadrach Meshach Abednego. They're all carried away into Babylon and Then Jeremiah shows up He's a prophet in Jerusalem who's alive during the conquer of Jerusalem by the Babylonians But he stays in Jerusalem and he writes a letter to his fellow countrymen in the Babylonian Empire And he says my brothers and my sisters I'm paraphrasing. This is a new international bill version Lock it in and calm down You're gonna be here for 70 years plant gardens Marry your daughters to your sons Do good for the city. It's one of the key phrases from that book do good for the city after 70 years Our father will come back for you During those 70 years Daniel moves up into the ranks of the Babylonian Kingdom he's actually there in the moment when Babylon itself falls to a third Rising pagan nation state that defeats Babylon and takes over the entire kingdom the name of the pap the pagan kingdom that defeated Babylon is Persia Persia defeats Babylon Daniel is actually there if you read the end of the book of Daniel the the Holy Spirit's finger or the finger of God It's writing on the wall in the temple of Marduk in the middle of the Babylonian Empire When they come in and they invade and they take over and now we're in the Persian period this where the book of Esther takes place It takes place during Persian rule King Cyrus the great allows people to start coming home. They come home in three different waves. So there's your Ezra There's your Nehemiah they rebuild the walls that rebuild the temple They restart building their society because now their 70 year timeout is over God sends them a few latter prophets who happen during the time Ezra leads the people and rededicating themselves to the word The Holy Spirit speaks through the mouth of the prophet Joel Says in the last days your sons and your daughters will dream dreams and prophesy and then the final message that comes that ends The Old Testament is from the prophet Malachi And he says I will send you my anointed one my promised one and you will know that it's him Because I will send someone ahead of him to prepare the way And that's the end of the Old Testament. That's the story of the Old Testament and then there's a gap of time We call it the silent years the intertestamental years how many years of silence between the Old Testament and the New Testament? 400 years God doesn't speak to his people. He doesn't reveal any new scriptures. There's no new prophets There's no new miracles for 400 years. They are left on read waiting for God to send his next messenger During those 400 years. There's a lot of history that happened Alexander the Great rises dies his nation breaks apart Then his generals take over basically what we know as the entire Middle East Mediterranean area some people call the Seleucids They take over Israel and Palestine Israel Judea Palestine Samaria all that then they rebel against That's where the story the Maccabees comes from they're rebelling against the Seleucid Empire They're the gods people are free for like 120 years and then another rising military power Begins to conquer the known Mediterranean world and this prepares the way for the New Testament What is the name of the pagan military empire that conquered the Mediterranean world? Just before the beginning of the New Testament Rome Now Rome is in charge and they conquered the Phoenicians. They come conquered the car then Cartheneagin's they ruled very powerfully and very cruelly and Now God's people are oppressed once again by a pagan military power and they cry out for their deliverer Lord, where is our Messiah our promised one? But now God picks up the phone gets ready to chat back and he sends an angel into the temple into the Holy of Holies where there's one priest who is selected by lot and he's burning incense before God and Angel shows up and he sits down and he says what's the first thing every angel has to say? Don't be afraid. Yo chill, right? Don't be afraid You're gonna have a son and he's gonna be a very special son. He will be mine from the time. He's born Don't cut his hair. He's not allowed to drink any alcohol that comes from Old Testament Nazarene vows and He will prepare the way for Israel's Messiah The name of the priest who is burning incense who received the first angelic message in 400 years is Zechariah the name of his very special promised son John the Baptist so John the Baptist shows up. He's weird. He wears like he's weird He lives in the in the wilderness locusts wild honey I mean this dude would be like make duck dynasty look really really really normal So he's way out in the sticks and he begins to preach baptism of repentance repent repent the kingdom of God is coming The kingdom of God is coming While he's doing all of that God had sent an angel To a very special young lady who was pledged to be married to a carpenter named Joseph and the angel shows up and says You're going to have a son. The Holy Spirit will conceive in you and you will give birth to Emmanuel God is with us the name of that young lady is Mary and the name of her very special son is Jesus Kind of a big deal character. You need to know that one So then Jesus also grows up in age his relative likely cousin But we'll call it relative John the Baptist is baptizing people for repentance Jesus comes to John the Baptist He's baptized and in that moment the Holy Spirit descends from heaven like a dove It's one of the most beautiful pictures of the Trinity God the Father speaks from heaven This is my son in whom I am well-pleased God the Son is in the river being baptized and God the Holy Spirit is descending from the Father to the Son It's a beautiful Trinitarian picture Jesus then begins his ministry. He ministers for three to four years There's some theological debate to be had there. You hit me on your Kinect card if you want to get into that And he preaches about the coming kingdom of God and the new covenant that God will have with his people ultimately has You know the Last Supper what we call communion. This is the new covenant of my blood He's killed by the Romans one of the most sure details You can know from all of antiquity is Jesus of Nazareth died by crucifixion under the authority of Pontius Pilate in Jerusalem Exactly as the Bible describes it's the single most guaranteed fact from all of human history Jesus died on a cross under Pontius Pilate in Jerusalem exactly the way the Bible says it Even your atheist historians will guarantee that fact Spoiler alert he doesn't stay dead Three days later Jesus rises from the grave supernaturally Resurrecting verifying that he is the promised Messiah of God But he stays on earth How many days I don't you last one how many days did Jesus stay on earth? Did Jesus stay on earth and teach after his resurrection before his ascension? 40 no 40 there's 50 days between Passover and Pentecost He taught for 40 of them the ascension happens. There's 10 days of waiting Then we got into this last week in the week before He says don't go anywhere yet. Don't leave stay in Jerusalem for the gift that my father promised They elect Matthias as the neck they to fulfill the 12 and Here we are Acts chapter 2 that's the story of the Bible from Genesis 1 1 right here to Acts chapter 2 So I just want to read to you the verses we're gonna look at today And then I want to go back through and break it down. So here's Acts chapter 2 starting in verse 1 When the day of Pentecost came They were all together in one place Suddenly a sound like a the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house Where they were sitting they saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them Now there were saying in Jerusalem God-fearing Jews from every nation under heaven When they heard this sound a crowd came together in bewilderment because each one heard their own language being spoken Utterly amazed they asked Aren't these all Galileans? Then how is it that each hears them each of us hears them in our own native language? Parthians Medes Elamites Residents of Mesopotamia, Judea Cappadocia Pontus in Asia Phrygia and Pamphylia Egypt and parts of Libya near Cyrene visitors from Rome both Jews and Converts to Judaism Cretans and Arabs. We hear them declaring the wonders of God in our own tongues Amazed and perplexed they asked one another What does this mean? Some however made fun of them and said they've had too much wine All right, that's all we're gonna look at today we're gonna stop right there Stock at the at the drunk disciple comment. That's going to be the end of our sermon for today So let's go back to acts chapter 1 verse 1 Also, just want to say if you have the catalyst app If you will open the catalyst app, you will see a box right there. That's blue That says sermon notes all of my sermon notes today In the sermon notes is also how you want to ask questions So I'm a firm believer that we should be able to take questions and answer questions in church If you are in our live chat our live chat host will drop a link for you to be able to click And it'll open the question window in a different window on your phone if you are here in the room If you just go to catalyst 302.com you can get our app and the question button is inside the app And then what we'll do is the questions will go to the back my wife will hold on to them So you are free to ask a question anytime during the entire sermon My wife will hold all the questions at the back when I get done I'll look at the amount of time we have and i'll do questions until until I need to stop So here we go. Acts chapter 1 verse 1 When the day of pentacost stop Let's define what pentacost is so we're all on the same page What pentacost is so we're all on the same page pentacost literally comes from the word 50th And why is that? Because the day of pentacost is 50 days after what jewish holiday? Passover, that's right 50 days after Passover is pentacost pentacost literally means 50th By the time of the first century They had all so it's supposed to be 50 days after the feast of the first fruits Which is Passover the feast of the first fruits it later Became the holiday that commemorates the giving of the law at mount sinai We talked about that after exodus they go to sinai and they receive the law But this is a jewish holiday. The other thing you need to know is according to leviticus 23 This is one of those jewish holidays where all jewish males 12 years of age and older are required to travel to Jerusalem every year to participate in this holiday This is one of the major Required holidays of the jewish people they have three that they're required to travel to jerusalem for Pentecost is one does anybody want to shout out? What's another one? Passover I heard that Passover. It's not yom kippur Anybody have the third one? It's called the feast of and there's a couple different words there Booths the feast of booths or shelters or tabernacles any one of those that feast commemorates the wilderness wandering So Passover commemorates the night the angel of death passed over in exodus the feast of booths celebrates or commemorates the wilderness wandering And pentecost celebrates the giving of the law at sinai three of the major events of the jewish people They're all required to be in jerusalem for this festival Notice that you see um in verse one when the day of pentecost came They I want to be very clear about the they because if we don't if we're not clear now the ending gets a little Muddy, so who is the they? Number one who wrote the book of acts? Luke did that's right. Dr. Luke wrote this When he says they in verse one He is referring to the entire group of believers that is mentioned in acts chapter one verse 15 We looked at that last week that same group of 120 that means men and women that means disciples the original apostles who were chosen and Just like we saw in mathias people who had been there the whole time who were like the npc background characters all 120 of them are there And notice that verse one also says they were all together in one place Even before the giving of the holy spirit god's people were in unity with one another Then you get to verse two Suddenly literally means quickly abruptly without warning without precursor. You just get surprised, right suddenly a sound like a violent wind um it Violent wind literally like if you translate it from the greek it says sound like rushing strong wind That's literally means suddenly like rushing strong wind. That's what happened Out of nowhere that sound happens And it comes specifically From heaven. This is not some sort of earthly sandstorm This is not the kind of wind that we're used to in florida when the hurricane is off the coast This is not even the kind of wind in kansas that brought Dorothy to oz This is the sound of a mighty rushing wind But it comes from heaven So I need you to see two things in in verse two number one The coming of the holy spirit is not something that was just merely felt emotionally. There is an auditory component they heard The sound of a rushing wind so much so that it's not just the 120 people who are gathered together But the folk down on the street also heard the sound so the coming of the holy spirit is not just some um Idea, it's not metaphorical. It's not mythological This event happened in real time in real space and it had an auditory component that was heard and it filled the whole house Where they were sitting? The impact of the spirit's arrival was completely immersive for the 120 believers verse three They saw what seemed to be tongues of Fire stop Because the word tongue in this verse in this section is used Illustratively, but also literally I need to explain what a tongue of fire is so that you will better understand what comes next So i've already explained that the coming of the holy spirit was auditory now. You can see the coming of the holy spirit was also visual There's an auditory component. There's a visual component. So What is a tongue of fire? So the word tongue is used to describe several things The first thing it describes is the things in your face Okay, this is my tongue. I think that's the easy part, right? But what does the tongue do? It speaks The tongue is the muscle of communication the muscle of speech If I didn't have my tongue, I would have to learn how to speak completely differently I would have to see a speech therapist and learn how to reformulate words and sounds because the tongue is not just The muscle that tastes things it is the muscle that communicates and it speaks so when they saw What seemed to be? That means they're trying to use their best language to describe a tongue of fire What they are seeing? Is I think what you and I today would call a flame? Flame in the shape of a tongue. So what's the shape of a tongue? Well, it's got a bottom to it and then it comes up and as it comes up it narrows, right? so Like as a super easy illustration Here's a a just a simple lighter that I bought at the gas station That's what they saw It's not mythical. It's not it's not weird. That's what they saw now. That's kind of a long tongue, right? But it's got a bottom to it it curves it comes to an edge at the top It's exactly what you would say a tongue looks like if you go to buy beef tongue in the market It looks like that so when it says They saw What seemed to be? tongues of fire They saw this Don't make it don't make it mythical don't make it let's not make it weird. This is what they saw They saw this what we would call today a single flame But they didn't just see this one single flame what happened to it verse three They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated And came to rest on each of them. So a singular flame Either descended into the room or appeared in the room. It doesn't say it just says they saw it So they hear this mighty rushing wind and they see a singular flame that then begins to Separate and break off into multiple little flames until there is an individual flame That came to rest On each of them does that make sense? Like when you look at it, it's not it doesn't have to be weird and kooky That's what they saw They saw a single flame that ended up breaking up and separating until it came to rest on each of them. Who's the them? The them of this verse is the same of the they from two verses ago, which is the same as the 120 from three verses before that So they saw a single flame that separated into multiple individual flames that came to rest on the entire group of 120 believers That are there So the arrival of the holy spirit is heard in the rushing wind It is visually seen in the individual flames that separate onto each person and then verse four All of them were filled with the holy spirit and began to speak in other tongues As the spirit enabled them So again, I want to point out verse four all of them That means all of the 120 That are the focus of this section All 120 believers who heard the rushing wind all 120 believers who saw the the Flame break down into something that filled all 120 of them. All of them were filled With the holy spirit. This is a fulfillment of jesus's own words from acts chapter one verse five And I said stay in jerusalem until you receive the gift that my father has sent you You will be filled with the holy spirit Jesus told them this is what would happen and now here in x chapter two verse four jesus's words are fulfilled And now here is the third component of the arrival of the holy spirit. They heard the wind they saw the flame And they spoke in other tongues Now again, what is the tongue? It's not just the muscle that's in your mouth. It is the organ of speech So when it says in verse four they spoke in other tongues Literally, it means they spoke in other speeches in other languages This means they spoke in languages that their brains did not know Is there anybody in this room that's fluent In mandarin chinese Anybody just raise your hand throw it up You're ordering lunch by the way, just saying Because I can never figure out how to say general tiles chicken, right? So i'm gonna get somebody who's fluent Nobody in this room is fluent in mandarin chinese. So if one of you stood up and immediately spoke perfect mandarin That's what this is Anybody fluent in um Farsi, I don't know anybody fluent in farsi Okay, jen if you stood up right now and spoke fluent farsi, that's what this would be anybody fluent in french Fully fluent no, okay, if you stood up spoke french anybody fluent in spanish Okay Then you can't stand up and speak in spanish because you can do it with your brain, but you see what i'm getting at Has to be a language that your your mind had never learned Why because the verse here says other tongues They didn't just stand up and speak in their own native language. I am speaking english Because it's my native language My second native language is sarcasm The elders tend to not like it when I preach with sarcasm Farsi is my native language English is my native language. I don't speak mandarin. I don't speak farsi. I don't speak french I butcher spanish really well If I stood up right now and spoke in one of those languages that my brain does not know that is what this is Now I want to answer the question because someone's going to ask it. So let's just take it out now Did they speak in some sort of heavenly babble sounding language No, they did not and I will prove it to you from this text They did not speak some sort of angelic heavenly language that no human being can understand I understand from my pentacostal friends who grew up in a pentacostal environment You are often taught that this passage meant they were speaking the language of god That is not true And I will show it to you from the text don't take my word for it I don't want you to take any pastor's word for it. I want you to take the text's word for it But I want you to know upfront when it says other tongues notice as the spirit enabled them The holy spirit in the believers 120 that means men and women Do you know why it's so important? I came across something as I was studying for this week I came across a a very narrow band of theology That tried to argue Only the 12 apostles spoke in tongues in this scene I've never heard that argument before in my life, but it was interesting and so, you know what john? Let's follow this rabbit trail. Let's see where it goes, right? I think you are absolutely wrong, but let's see where it goes There's a couple of big problems with that perspective But one of the biggest is that this verse verse 4 All of them were filled with the holy spirit and began to speak in other tongues is a fulfillment of an old testament Prophecy I mentioned it in the big bible story in joel chapter 2 the prophet joel said in the last days Your sons and your daughters will prophesy your sons And your daughters will dream dreams if it was only the 12 male apostles who were filled with the holy spirit in this moment Then joel's prophecy goes unfulfilled because ladies joel promised long before John the baptist was ever born That women would be spirit empowered gospel carriers Has to be the 120 unless joel is wrong and I don't think the word of god is wrong So all of them were filled with the holy spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the spirit enabled them That's the arrival of the holy spirit It was heard it was saw and it generated activity that was experienced by those who spoke it and witnessed by those on the ground floor So that was letter a in your notes by the way now we get to letter b Here's the reception of the holy spirit This picks the story up at verse 5 now they were staying in jerusalem god-fearing jews from every nation under heaven stop Why are there god-fearing jews in every nation under heaven? Because it's pentacost and because leviticus 23 requires them to travel to town That's why I included that point earlier so you would see that's the reason God's not making a mistake. He's doing it on purpose. This isn't by luck. This is by design They're all in town This is also how I can justify for you That this wasn't some sort of heavenly angelic language because of what's about to happen The other thing I need you to see is every nation under heaven Links to axe 1 8 when jesus said you will be my witnesses in jerusalem judaea samaria and the ends of the earth it also links to james 1 1 and Peter 1 1 where he references the diaspora jews who are scattered throughout the mediterranean empire They're all in this one place at this one time for this one thing And then this other thing happens Verse 6 When they heard this sound notice when they heard That means it wasn't just the 120 up there who are having some sort of ecstatic experience that nobody can understand And it was all emotionalism. No the witnesses on the ground who are not believers who are not filled with the spirit still Heard the sound that mighty rushing winston and then all of a sudden they heard everybody start speaking in all these different languages That's audible. This is not mythological. This is not Not metaphorical. This is historical this happened They hear uh verse 6, sorry verse 6 A crowd came together in bewilderment because ding ding ding each one heard their own language Being spoken right there Underline highlight cut take the reel That's how you know The speaking in tongues that happened in axe chapter 2 is not some sort of Heavenly ecstatic emotional language it was earthly languages Why because the witnesses on the ground heard them and recognized the speech recognize the language Verse 7 here's the response to them hearing the sound utterly amazed. They asked whoa. Whoa, aren't these All who are speaking gallileans stop This to me is so funny let me try to explain in my mind how I connect the dots to make this funny First you need to understand that not everybody in the crowd is saying these sentences Luke is condensing for us the response of the larger crowd Into these statements, right? So it's not correct to read that every single person in the crowd all at the same time Said whoa aren't are these all gallileans? No, it was the overall theme of what was being said from the crowd at the time How they know that How do they know they're all gallileans? Just put yourself rob rob just you and me right everybody else take five rob. We are on the street in Jerusalem In ad 30 when this moment happens and we hear this big ruckusy noise This sound of the crowd 30 when this moment happens and we hear this big ruckusy noise This sound of a rushing wind and when the wind is gone, we hear a group of people All yelling in all these different languages If you can't see them Which is arguably maybe they couldn't how do you know they're from Galilee You don't you don't this listen, this is so funny to me And i'm going to tell you this is my personal opinion. So the next statement I make is not from god It's just from me, but I think it's hilarious What if the gallileans all had an accent Like man you ever heard somebody speak spanish with a southern accent Hey, gracy ass me a maker told me start him tacos Can you imagine what it would be like to hear all of the world's Voices all of the world's languages spoken like a hick from the backwoods of virginia Pair donna may mona me That's so funny How did they know they were all gallileans did somebody see them and recognize the dress, okay Maybe that's possible. Did somebody know someone in the 120 and know they were from nazareth or know they were from Cappadocia, right did they know that capernium? That's the one on the there's a there's a map in the air that you can't see but my brain can see And that's right where that city is How did they know they were all gallileans? I gotta know jerry when we get to heaven I gotta know were they all speaking different languages in like their version of a redneckie john deere southern accent because that would make me so happy I don't know, but scripture clearly says wait a minute It's what makes the moment Aren't these all gallileans don't skip over that detail because it's what magnifies what god is doing Hey, man Aren't these all gallileans? And then he says verse eight how is it that each of us hears them in our own native Language see because in their day You didn't have a whole lot of people who traveled and were from a bunch of different places Over the last 20 years the lord has called my wife and I to live in several different places We've lived in rural georgia right on the border with alabama fit in just fine right there Then we moved to south florida Just outside of fort meyers and cape coral and when someone with polynesian descent lives in a sunny state like florida My skin tone gets a whole lot darker And all of a sudden everybody thought I was cuban And so you had the store and everybody started talking to you in spanish and when you cannot speak spanish they get very mad at you So now all of a sudden I have to be like a little bit like i'm sorry my abuela never taught me i'm so sorry And then we leave there and we move back to the sticks of virginia and i'm like yeehaw buddy You got that john deere. Let's go And then I move here to delaware and now I got to remember what it was like to grow up in jersey Is that what it was like Because as soon as I use all those different accents you immediately start placing people are from those places Is that what that was like that one sentence? Are they not all galileans? It's the one we skip over all the time because it's not the cool Holy spirit moment and it's not all the different cities, but to me that sentence makes this thing live In humanity, it's real because they knew they were all from the same place, but they don't sound like it They're all from one place and then we get to Verse 9 10 and 11 This is all the different places So parthians meads elamites respents of mesopotamia judaeca pardosia pontus asia phrygia pamphylia egypt parts of libya near sirene Visitors of rome both jews and converts to judaism by the way cretins and arabs Here's what's really cool If it was only the 12 who were speaking in tongues, I think that's a wrong view But let's say you want to hold that view you would have to explain there's more than 12 places here So does that mean one of the 12 is like spitting multiple languages at the same time? Is he like spanglishing it so that he could catch both sides of the equation? It makes more sense to me that it's the 120 speaking and different people in the group are speaking all of these different languages These places cover the known mediterranean world at the time So when jesus said you will be my witnesses from jerusalem judaea samaria to the ends of the earth He wasn't lying. They did it on the very first day They were witnesses to people from the known mediterranean world in the Singular moment of the birth of the christian church Verse 12 amazed and perplexed. This is the crowd downstairs hearing the sound Amazed and perplexed they asked one another What does this mean? Man, I wish we could get more people to ask that question. What does this mean? How are all of these people who we can somehow understand are all from the same place? They're all speaking all these different languages of places that they've never been it must mean something I think a lot of times in our modern day life. We just we see how entertaining things are but we forget that they mean something And then there's always that one guy Jim's not here today. So we're gonna call this guy jim and y'all can all tell him I picked on him even though he's not here Verse 13 again, let's just bring it back. Let's make it really human Some meaning some in the crowd who heard the sound who heard the the languages made fun of them and said, ah They just drunk They just had too much wine Really Like don't get me wrong. Like there is definitely a hold my beer culture in john deere country. There really is right I get that What verse 13 reminds me is that you can be doing Exactly what god wants in the moment fully spirit empowered and certain people just won't get it And if it happened to them On the very first day when the holy spirit was arriving for the very first time in a miraculously audible Visually and actual oriented way. I should not feel bad When I strive to do my best to share the gospel and people look at me like i'm a mule staring at a new date Verse 13 makes me feel so much better about myself Because every week I get up here and I do my best to bring the scriptures alive and I do my best To teach the word of god to the best of my ability And there are some weeks that just nothing seems to come out of it and i'm like lord was that a wasted week I used to think that I used to think if you don't get somebody saved every single time you preach You're just not doing a good enough job Now what I realize is is there are seasons in ministry and sometimes you're planting sometimes you're watering and sometimes you're waiting Because the seeds already been planted by somebody else watered by another guy And now you're just waiting for the crop to be there and keep the weeds away from it so it can do its job So I no longer live that way But verse 13 makes me feel so good about being human because there are some people who just don't get it And this is on the very first day of the church This is on the arrival of the greatest gift that humanity has received second to salvation in christ Is the indwelling of the third member of the trinity the holy spirit of god And somebody's like hey, man, I just drunk. It's all right Okay Miss nancy, maybe it's okay for us to not always be received Well, even while we're following the holy spirit even while we're being directed to do what he's called us to do If it could happen to them it could happen to us This moment Inaugurates The new covenant in christ in a very powerful way because jesus said don't go anywhere. Don't leave You guys have had my teaching for three years maybe four depending on which way you want to go You've had my teaching you're ready for ministry, but don't go anywhere yet. Mr Tom you're not enough without this gift that my father's going to send to you Once you have it then you can go out and you can do what you need to do This is the moment That the church of jesus christ is not just born This is the moment the power is turned on And the light is carried in this singular moment all across the known Mediterranean world because all these dudes who are here And these families who are here for the holiday of pentecost they all go home And now they're all going to go home and share this story And the gospel traveled In an instant you could sit here and say it's all just a coincidence I think the numbers are kind of That's hard to believe steve. It's hard. It's hard to believe that it's just a coincidence It seems way more like god's providence at work in the lives of human beings to accomplish what jesus set forth, which is his mission So I want to bring this in for a takeaway and then melanie if you could start feeding me some of the questions we have this morning Here's your takeaway the arrival of the holy spirit at pentecost Empowers all believers to begin the mission of being witnesses of the new covenant Now available in christ. Sorry. I wrote now now twice. I apologize It is our job To be the spirit empowered mission carriers In the same way that they were in the first century