Welcome to catalyst. My name is bill I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here at catalyst if you are joining us online this morning Thank you for being a part of our extended online family So here at catalyst our vision is quite simple our desire is to be a community that Represents Jesus by accomplishing three things our desires to be a community that represents Jesus by anybody tell me one of them meeting needs building relationships and Growing Christians building building excuse me meeting needs building relationships and maturing or growing Christians That is what our desire is a church to do is and that desire is rooted very deeply in scripture And I would argue that one of the past the passage we're gonna look at today is one of the clearest examples of why that Vision for our church in today's age links all the way back to the very first moments of the church So if you have the catalyst app, I just want to invite you to open it up Inside the catalyst app you will find a button that is blue with a white little notebook It says sermon notes on it. If you click there, it will open all of my sermon notes for today It's got the scriptures in there. It's got the sub points in there. It's also got the buttons to ask questions So if you would like to ask questions during the sermon I invite you to just open that up if you're watching us online And you're in our live chat our chat host will drop a link there for you So you don't have to leave the live chat It'll just open it for you and you can ask questions that way those questions will go to the back My wife will hold on to them and then she will feed them up to me when we get to the end of the sermon So hopefully and then those you don't know this you can click the little button that says speech bubble there You can add your own thoughts and when you get all the way to the bottom hit email and emails all of it to you So that way you can have my notes plus your notes as we're going through this morning The key thought that sort of holds this together and this today will be the final message for us in this introduction acts All we're doing is acts one and two. Here's the key thought the book of Acts records How Jesus mission continues? Through his spirit empowered disciples. So the book of Acts records how Jesus's mission the mission that Jesus began at his incarnation Accomplished through the gospel ministry his teaching period that we recognize that same mission continues in the book of Acts But now accomplished through his spirit empowered disciples Those of you have your Bibles turn or tap with me to Acts chapter 2 We're actually gonna start reading in verse 36. So Acts chapter 2 36 I'm gonna do the same thing that I did last week and I'm going to Start today's sermon with the last verse of last week's sermon and that is because basically over the last three weeks Pastor Tyler and myself have been preaching one singular section Peter's Pentecost sermon began with pastor Tyler's sermon two weeks ago I did the second part of the sermon and then today we're going to look at thank you very much today We're gonna look at the reception of that sermon Just I'm not gonna do the whole big Bible story, but let's go ahead somebody pick an Old Testament book Just yell it out. Oh book in the Old Testament Job fantastic pick one that's later Obadiah fantastic, let's take Obadiah All right So Obadiah is gonna take place after the divided kingdom period if my memory serves correctly So let's jump into the big Bible story right after Right after Civil War, all right so in the middle of the Old Testament God's people have three kings and then they separate in Civil War into the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of and they still have an obedience problem, right? so God uses an external pagan nation who invades the northern kingdom of Israel that external pagan nation who carries them off into captivity is a Syria while in a Syria a Syria falls to another rising pagan nation state that defeats a Syria the name of that nation is Babylon every time I do this I feel like I'm standing in front of a map because Israel's always here Judah's always here the Syria is here Babylon defeats a Syria Babylon then comes in and invades the southern kingdom of Judah Carries them off into captivity for how many years? Nope, not 40 70 years, right? So Jeremiah during the Babylonian captivity writes to his fellow Israelites in Babylon So that would have been Daniel that would have been Hananiah Azariah and Mishael Hebrew names for anybody Shad back Rishak or Shadrach Meshach and Abednego. That's their Babylonian names Hananiah Azariah Meshael That's their Hebrew names. So Jeremiah writes to his bros over in Babylon and says dudes Okay, you're gonna be here for 70 years. God has decreed you'll be there for 70 years Marry your sons marry your daughters plant gardens do good for the city at the end of the 70 years I'm gonna come back for my people in the same way that God came back for his people from Egypt He comes back from his people from Babylon and in order to facilitate the return God uses a third pagan nation which defeats Babylon that pagan nation is Persia Persian period there's your Esther. There's your Nehemiah There's your Ezra they return home at the decree of a Persian king They get to come home they rebuild the walls they rebuild their culture and then there's a little bit of Old Testament left Where God sends a few remaining prophets? And he says I'm gonna send you my Messiah and you'll know it's him Because I'm going to send someone ahead of him his forerunner who will prepare the way and make it straight And that's where the Old Testament ends and then there's this period of time Between the end of Malachi and the beginning of Matthew called the silent years It's called the intertest mental period for those of you like longer words I just call it the quiet time God put his people in quiet time How many years between the Old Testament the New Testament? For 400 years God doesn't speak to his people no new prophets no new scriptures no new miracles They're just living in the land that God promised them. There's a lot of history that happens Alexander the great rises to power conquers the Mediterranean world. He dies rather young his kingdom is then fractured amongst all his generals a Guy named Seleucids take over the that period then there's a revolt against the Seleucid Empire We'll talk a little bit more about that next Sunday when we get to Palm Sunday Israel is free for a little bit like maybe like 120 years and then a fourth pagan nation state is on the rise in the Mediterranean world and they sweep through and they conquer Everybody and this prepares the way for the beginning of the New Testament What is the name of the pagan nation that conquered the Mediterranean just before the arrival of the Savior? Rome Rome now conquered everybody and now God breaks his silence He sends an angel into the temple to speak to a priest and tell him he's gonna have a promised son the name of the priest is Zechariah the name of Zechariah's promised son is John the Baptist John the Baptist is filled with the Holy Spirit from the get Even before he is born he prepares the way God sends an angel to a young lady pledged to be married to a carpenter named Joseph you're gonna have a son and he is going to be God with us Emmanuel He will save his people from his sins and the name of that young lady is Mary and the name of her very special son is Jesus he's a big deal in the Christian story. He didn't know that Jesus is a big story Jesus then is born. He's God incarnate. He has his ministry We could debate whether it was three or four years long, that's a fun conversation You let me know on your connect card if you want to get into it Then he is crucified under the authority of Pontius Pilate in Jerusalem I submit to you that Jesus crucifixion happened on Friday April the 7th of AD 30 on that particular Passover Sabbath day three days later on Sunday, April the 9th AD 30 he rises He resurrects from the dead in full bodily resurrection He teaches the disciples for how many days after his resurrection? For 40 days Jesus teaches his disciples and then he ascends to heaven and he says Wait, don't leave Jerusalem stay here until the gift My father has promised you and so they stay in Jerusalem. And then I think if my memory serves its May the 28th is 50 days after the resurrection I know it's in the notes from like the first message of the series the Holy Spirit falls in Jerusalem On a very special holiday that the Jews are celebrating the name of the holiday on which the Holy Spirit fell is Pentecost they are celebrating the holiday of Pentecost the Holy Spirit falls. They're in the upper room Pastor Tyler introduced there speaking in tongues Peter comes down the people at the street are hearing the sound They're like yo, what's going on? Peter preaches an amazing sermon which we looked at over the last two Sundays and here we're going to jump in at verse 36 It is the summation or the final conclusionary statement It is the the ring of the bell of Peter's sermon here in verse 36 And then we will see how the crowd responds and how the church responds and that gets us to the end of chapter 2 So that's where we are mentally in the Bible. Here we go Acts chapter 2 starting in verse 36. These are the final words of Peter's sermon summary here in 2 Therefore let all Israel be assured of this God has made this Jesus whom you crucified both Lord and Messiah And when the people heard this they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the other Apostles brothers What shall we do? Peter replied repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of Your sins and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit The promise is for you and your children and all who are far off for all Whom the Lord our God will call With many other words he warned them he pleaded with them save yourselves from this corrupt generation Those who accepted his message were baptized and about three thousand were added to their number that day They devoted themselves to the Apostles teaching and to fellowship and to the breaking of bread and to prayer Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders and signs performed by the Apostles All the believers were together and had everything in common They sold property and gave possessions to anyone who had need Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes Forward there it is. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts Praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people and the Lord added to their number daily Those who were being saved So let's rewind If you're following in the notes in the app letter a is just verse 3 If you're following in the notes in the app letter a is just verse 36 So the first part of the sermon is peter's conclusion So over the last two weeks pastor tyler and myself did a one-two punch reviewed peter's pentacost sermon If you have not had an opportunity to hear those sermons, they are in the catalyst app in the media section You can just go there But the concluding verse of his sermon where he brings the whole thing to an end is therefore all israel be assured of this God has made this jesus Whom you crucified both lord and messiah that is super important The conclusion of peter's pentacost sermon is not just jesus rose It's that jesus rose as the illustration That god has made jesus lord and messiah Then we get to letter b probably the fastest i've ever made it through the first point of a sermon, right? Here we go We're already on point number two letter b. This is the crowds responding To peter's sermon, so this is still In jerusalem the day of pentacost 80 30 there they've heard peter preach and now we get a portrait of the response of the crowd when the people Heard this stop who are the people in verse 37? The people of verse 37 are the same people Who were at the street? Hearing the sound of the rustling wind Hearing the sound of all the believers speaking in tongues and drawn together to ask what be happening That's the new international bill version right there charita. Yo, what this? That's the same people whom peter came downstairs to deliver the sermon to and it's the same people in 37 who are now Responding so the crowd has been watching this whole thing when the people heard this They were cut to the heart and said to peter and the other apostles Brothers, what shall we do? Cut to the heart in the original greek literally means they were greatly troubled or concerned internally Greatly troubled or concerned they were Heartbroken they were cut to the heart. They had a very real Response Is I don't want to say it's just an emotional response because that kind of makes light of it Have you ever been cut to the heart and not just emotionally but intellectually like wow I should really think about that That's this moment. They were cut to the heart the word used in 37 for brothers is adelphos. It means Family member or kin why well because it's a jewish holiday In the central city for judaism The majority if not entirety of peter's audience in this sermon are jews We saw that earlier in the chapter right jews from all over Cappadocia elamites he names off all these places They're jewish people who are hearing peter's sermon. So when peter says Brothers or knows when they say to peter brothers, what shall we do? They are using the term adelphos or brothers because they are all part of the jewish family They are all kin in the sense that they are all jewish peter's response in verse 38 He replied repent And be baptized every one of you In the name of jesus christ for the forgiveness of your sins stop We have got to break this verse down because this verse has led to a significant amount of wrong teaching over the years So let's take it piece by piece peter replied. What does that mean? He's a he's trying to answer the question that's been asked to him he delivers this amazingly jesus-focused You know apologically evidenced sermon and their response is rod. What am I supposed to do with that? And so peter is now answering their question repent Stop, I even added this as a quote in the notes Repentance is not feeling sorry for sin Let me say that again repentance is not Just feeling sorry for sin It is changing how you think and live Because in this context jesus is lord In an american christian context I think the word repent gets a bad rap We either think about the word repent in the typical sort of You know southern tent revival style I'm gonna repent right we think about it as a as a just an expletive that just gets shouted at people Like who are you sitting repent? right Repentance is not just an emotional response Repentance at its core nature of what this word literally means it means to change one's mind It means to think and therefore act Differently which is why when we get to axe chapter 17 and you see paul preaching in the areopagus And he uses the same word repent right He is challenging the greeks to change their thinking change their mind about who jesus is Now buried within this word of change one's mind is also the idea that it's not just intellectual John, I don't just want to get you to think Differently as like an intellectual exercise I want you to think differently because they had an understanding that the way you think leads the way you live So when we say repent in this context peter is literally getting his audience to change What they think about jesus? What is he asking them to change? He is asking them if you go back to the verse 36 Jesus whom you crucified is both lord and messiah That's why I wanted to start at 36 and try to tie these three things together Peter is preaching to a jewish audience In jerusalem in may of 8030 and he is entreating his audience to think differently about jesus Now that's different from what paul was preaching in 17 here. It is a jewish audience a jewish preacher a jewish holiday The fulfillment of jewish prophecy You know joel too your sons and daughters will prophesy all of that comes together So when he says here repent in verse 38 He's not saying Well, everybody just get emotional and come run down to the altar y'all need repent Right. Whoo That's not what he's saying He is saying my brothers Consider deeply Who jesus is And act differently because of it That's a whole different ball game on the word repent. It's not just Emotionally respond to how bad you feel about yourself as a sinner That is our american cultural context of the word repent. That is not peter's usage of it in this passage He is just go back and read the whole sermon concluding in the action step, right? So a good sermon should always teach you something it should motivate you and should lead you an action step This is peter's action step my brothers and sisters of my jewish family Think differently about jesus because god has made him lord and messiah and now you need to live differently because of that truth To know truth and to not live it is to be hypocritical And i'm sorry if that's actually i'm not sorry let it sting if that sentence stings it should sting on purpose If you know truth and you don't live it you are nothing more than a hypocrite Know the truth and live the truth. That's all buried in that word repent and then he says and be baptized Repent and be baptized again jewish audience. So what is the first century jew understand about baptism? Well, they understand several things baptism existed in the old testament that this is not a new testament phenomenon It is an old testament phenomenon that has been given new meaning in the new testament So let's rewind what is the old testament understanding of baptism the old testament understanding of baptism is to be submerged Beneath water for the purpose of ritual cleansing and dedication. How do I know that? Because if you go back and look at the way they created the temple They ritually cleaned the lampstands And the candelabras and the things that went into the temple because they were dedicated solely to the lord They had a ritual bathing method even the pharisees would have ritual baths to be ceremonially Clean, so when peter uses the word baptism in a first century jewish understanding He's not saying let's go fill the baptistry that's in the back of the church or we'll fill the one over here Because that one needs to get fixed. No, he's saying Repent Change the way you think about jesus because he's lord of messiah And now be baptized every one of you be submerged beneath a body of water for the purpose of ritual cleansing and dedication To jesus christ That's the the rest of this first sentence in the name of jesus christ. Why because he is both lord and messiah So because jesus is both lord and messiah and john I want you to think differently about him being your lord messiah and now that you thought differently about it I want you to live differently and I want you to go get baptized in his name And then the final part here for the forgiveness of your sins Hear me baptism does not Wash away your sin I say that very clearly Baptism does not Wash away your sins It is the act of faith That washes away sin. So why is peter saying? Repent and be baptized for the forgiveness of your sins. Can we all admit peter wasn't speaking english? Right. Can we admit that those of you didn't know that peter didn't speak english. We're reading a translation of peter's words The word that has been translated for into our english language also carries the connotation because So if you would allow me just to simply read the sentence with that one word change, I believe you will hear a very large difference Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of jesus christ for the forgiveness of your sins or Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of jesus christ because of the forgiveness of your sins Those two sentences sound really differently. Don't they because in our language the word for seems to imply That the baptism is what creates the forgiveness But that is an english thing But that is an english thing and peter didn't speak it english peter Didn't use the word for so this is why it's very important people get So big deep into doctrine and get it all misplaced because they're trying to analyze the english language In a way and try to get the in a connotation of what peter was saying when the reality is peter never spoke english English is a language didn't exist for thousands of years after him But that word that he uses if you look it up it can mean Because of now that really makes sense. Why because if I tie the whole thing together 36 jesus is lord and messiah I want you to repent change the way you think I want you to live differently which starts by repenting and being baptized And then I want you to be baptized into the name of jesus because Of the forgiveness of your sin, where did the forgiveness of sins come from from placing faith in jesus christ? Where does the baptism come it is the first step of obedience in the walk of salvation I want to make that very very very clear Because earlier on in my wife and mine's journey of following jesus I tried to teach this exact passage this exact way and they tried to fire me because their church believed That baptism actually washed away sin And we like we had to roll down And I had to say no the church constitution states you can't fire me without a meeting of the church and they have to vote You put up your theological interpretation. I will put up mine the church votes if the church wants to agree with your heresy Then you can have it But i'm going to stand here and teach what the bible says So because of that experience I need to make sure that this is very clear That word four does not mean in order to accomplish it means because it's already been accomplished That makes sense so repent rethink about jesus live differently be baptized every one of you in the name of jesus christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and then there's another bit and You will receive the gift of the holy spirit Peter doesn't have to spend a lot of time on the concept of what sin is because he's speaking to a jewish audience They have all of the old testament what they call the hebrew bible. They understood what sin was so he concludes Repent be baptized jesus and you will be filled with the holy spirit. Why does he add that detail? Because it's the infilling of the holy spirit that caused the crowd to show up that caused peter to come downstairs that caused peter to preach So when you see the whole scene They've come together rob you and hannah are just like walking down, you know downtown jerusalem You're catching up with your brother about to get some hummus and some tea, you know late afternoon lunch And you hear this weird sound and all of a sudden you hear people who are from galilee up there talking in weird random languages And then one of those dudes come downstairs and wasn't he the father of that like galilee and preacher guy And all of a sudden peter starts spitting it and he starts saying that there's this new lord and messiah And then robby challenges you to repent be baptized in the name of jesus And then you will receive the gift of the holy spirit Why is he mentioning the holy spirit because it's the arrival of the holy spirit that is the occasion of the entire sermon in the first place You see that That's how this all ties together into one big thing Then I get to 39 Now peter is going to clarify What he said in 38? the promise Is for you and your children and all who are far off. What is the promise? The promise is salvation in christ and the infilling of the spirit as one piece today We would call that the indwelling of the holy spirit or the ceiling of the holy spirit over the years We've christianity as a whole has tried to come up with some very clear terms in order to specify what we mean This is day one peter's literally spitting it moments after the holy spirit arrives and he tells them 39 this promise is for you and For your children and all who are far off To a jewish audience that's going to make a lot of sense why? Because the abrahamic covenant that they received Was for them and their children and all who are far off and all the way through the old testament You see the descendants of abraham and then the children of those children and the children of those children And then there are other outsiders who convert to faith in yahweh like rahab in the in the story with the spies in joshua Like ruth following her mother-in-law naomi and coming back into the family of god So it's your children you and your children and all who are far off for all whom the lord our god will call Now primary audience of this sermon are jews in the first century They have zero problem with the fact that god has called their people to be a chosen people This verse does have some significant implications depending on how you read it for christian Soteriology does god choose who saved or they called up front do we respond to god's call? Is it secondary is it tertiary? How does all those steps work together? Those are fantastic theological conversations to have Those of you know what i'm talking about. That's great. If you don't put it on your connect card. Let's talk about it There are some there are some christian views of this verse. What is not Probably in my view open for debate is the fact that the jews understood They had a covenant with god that they were god's chosen people on god's chosen mission Peter is a jew speaking to an audience of jews in the hometown of the jews at a holiday of the jews Now with the fulfillment of the jewish messiah and lord So there's a lot of jewish context that shouldn't just be erased from this verse merely because it has christian implications The original audience would have absolutely understood The jews are god's chosen people we are here to accomplish god's chosen mission the promise of the holy spirit Through placing faith in god's jewish messiah. Jesus Is for you and your children and all who are far off all whom god will call peter uses the entire Covenantial understanding that the jews have for how they relate to yaw way and applies it to how they relate to jesus it's really a Just a brilliant sermon Than verse 40 With many other words he warned them and pleaded with them save yourselves from this corrupt generation Here's what you need to see in verse 40 The section of peter's sermon That pastor tyler taught and that I taught Is just that it is a section of the sermon verse 40 tells us that we are not looking at a Like a line-by-line transcript of all that peter said that day He says with many other words he warned them and then he gives an additional quote save yourselves from this corrupt generation pop quiz who wrote the book of acts Luke did what was luke's occupation other than being a historian? He was a doctor. He was an educated man What does he tell us at the beginning of acts that he did in order to write his book? He investigated I have carefully investigated that you may know the truth of what you have been taught That's the purpose statement for luke acts. It's found at the beginning of luke Luke in fact in almost all of the sermons a wonderful time those of you like your bible study. Here's one you should do Go through the book of acts and only read the sermons Just read the sermons I would love to do a study on just that sometime just look at the sermons look at the way the earliest recorded recordings Of preaching about jesus took place and understand that all of the sermons in the book of acts are summaries Of the full length deal. This is not what do they call it in a book male unabridged, right? Unabridged is when there's no editing right? This is not an unabridged peter's sermon. This is a condensed peter's sermon So he warns them with many other words verse 40 verse 41 Those who accepted his message, what is the message this that god has made this jesus whom you crucified lord and messiah It is your turn to baptize repent be filled with the holy spirit. That's the message 41 Those who accepted his message were baptized and about three thousand were added to their number that day Mr bill, I would like to just openly apologize. I do not believe we're gonna have 3 000 new partners at the end of this sermon But that is the power of god at work in his church On the very first day Like there wasn't even a sign that was like hey, you know christian worship service penicost sunday join us in the afternoon, right? This is literally the beginning of our work 3 000 people are added to their Excuse me baptized and about 3 000 were added to their number again baptized means A submersion in water a symbol of ritual cleansing and dedication and now all of that is being applied to the death and resurrection of jesus So the old testament understanding submersion ritual cleansing and dedication for god is now applied to god's chosen lord and messiah That is jesus That's letter b And now we get to section c Here is the first portrait This is how we bring this in here is the first portrait of Jesus This is how we bring this in here is the first portrait of the early church The early church was a community of faith Verse 42 They So stop who's they? They is the now Early christian community the original 120 who was in the upper room Who saw the tongues of fire who heard the rushing wind who spoke in tongues? Plus the 3 000 people that just got saved in the previous verse So those who really good at math how many people are in the new testament church in this verse? 3120 whoo way to go even jim can follow that They devoted themselves to the apostles teaching To the two and to fellowship to the breaking of bread and to prayer I want to break this verse down because this verse gives us the clearest most biblical portrait of the early christian church They meaning the group of three thousand one hundred and twenty Devoted themselves that verse that word literally means they were persistent They kept with devotion or they adhered to meaning they didn't just do an action, but the action was continual That's what that to devote oneself to something. It doesn't just mean singular action at one time It means a continual action over time. So they the group of three thousand one hundred twenty Continually acted over time Doing these four things first to the apostles teaching the apostles teaching is The doctrine of the church the teaching of the christian church We're here at ad 30 The new testament as you and I know it doesn't exist yet We took the delorean and we went back in time to before any of the books were written They're playing out in real time right now So the access to the apostles to hand down jesus's teaching Is the clearest transmission of christian doctrine that can be had at this moment? Praise god the holy spirit saw fit to record the new testament teachings for us In a way that shows the new testament is the most historically reliable document of all of humankind period bar none The new testament is the most well-attested The most well-attested And reliable document from all of human history period there is not even a close race for second Praise god for the holy spirit for doing that but in this moment In this moment the apostle teaching what jesus handed down is the best doctrine they have second two fellowship Some of you if you grew up in the church, you may be familiar with the word Coenonia Coenonia is the greek word for fellowship here It was really popular like in the 90s to use the word coenonia in church because somehow it made us feel more churchy The reality is it's just a word right. It's just a word like any other word coenonia fellowship What does the word really mean? It means to have close mutual association That's what it means If you wanted me to translate that it means to like be fam In It means to know one another in close mutual association Not just like know each other enough to like wave at each other in the grocery store, but to know one another's family To know one another's kids To share one another's struggles and share one another's victories. It's to know people with a more than casual understanding a true Mutual association where we know each other and we know the group that we're in that's what that word fellowship means then To the breaking of bread this would be what you and I call the communion meal, but it was actually a whole meal So it wasn't just like a church snack the way we do it today, but it was an actual meal um a little plug here communion on The monday thursday service, which is the thursday before easter We'll be here in this room live stream audience. I apologize We will not be live streaming the monday thursday communion service But you want to let me know on your connect card what we'll be doing i'll be happy to tell you and you could do it at home um We're going to have communion here and it will be different than any other communion that we do on a sunday We will have actual pieces of bread who will have actual cups It will be much more like a a meal. It won't be the full meal because i'm not going to do a whole satyr But um, it will be a very different experience. So if you've never experienced Communion in that way. I invite you to join us the thursday before easter for that So the breaking of bread and the fourth thing to prayer The church is a spiritual community Not a not a not a just social community The church is a spiritual community that is centered on our mutual association relationship through christ to god That means you have to have the spiritual component. So what do they do? They devote themselves to the apostle's teaching. That's right doctrine Fellowship that's close mutual association the breaking of bread. That's the centrality of christ in worship and to pray That's the keeping god at the center of our relationship Those are the four key things that make christian association christian Then verse 43 everyone who's the everyone everyone is the same group that we've been talking about the 3120 believers and I would argue even outside of that Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders And signs performed by the apostles The apostles this is a very clear statement that the church did not hide we were out in front We were known we were a known element Everyone was filled with awe the many signs and wonders performed by the apostles of signs and wonders just like old testament prophets God validated his mission and his missionary By their ministry of miraculous then verse 44 All the believers were together And had everything in common that all is that 3120 They were together and shared everything in common. I need to stress that this is voluntary This is not like um an implied or Impressed Communism, this is not a governmentally installed socialism. This is a voluntary sharing of that which I have I share with you And that which you have you share with the next person 45 gives us a portrait of that sharing They sold property and possessions to give to anyone who had need I love that. It says that that is one of the deep deep links in our vision statement to the original church The church is a place that meets needs and we have been since day one. That's why that's important and then 46 Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread and they were together They broke bread in their homes and they ate together with clear with glad and sincere hearts. Notice the everyday Communion community is not just sunday There is no such thing as community if it's only one day a week They met together all the time, you know school We don't even have to be in the same place at the same time You can pull out the catalyst app and message with your church family seven days a week We are striving to recreate first century community with 21st century tools But you cannot like and just to harp on this because it bugs me and it's my sermon so I get to throw it in There's no such thing as a christian that's isolated from all other christians You could be saved, but you can't be healthy You can be saved, but you can't be discipled alone by yourself people like well, I have jesus in the bible. That's enough for me I'm like, well, then you're missing the entire point of spiritual community You're missing the entire point of we need the gifts that you have and you need the gifts that we have And together we can do more than either one of us can do alone That's why this whole community is super important every day. They continue to meet together. They broke bread in their homes That's not just sharing meals, but having communion together in their homes. They ate together with glad and sincere hearts 47 praising god The community of the early church centered on meeting together on learning on teaching and on praising god And enjoying the favor of all the people and the lord added to their number daily those who are being saved That is That's a goal Didn't it? That is a goal to see a church mobilized to meet needs to be true spiritual community To the point that it gives us a good reputation with those around us in the world and other people come Seeking jesus because of the kind of christians that we are I don't know about you, but that's the kind of church. I want to be That's the kind of christian. I want to be I don't want to be the christian that people are afraid to talk to because they're afraid i'm going to beat them over the head with the bible That doesn't mean the bible doesn't correct the way we live But if you have not submitted your life to christ then there's no reason for you to live by his constitution When we have given our life to christ then we should be living the way he teaches The spiritual community That is the church Is the continuation of jesus's mission? from his incarnation Through the gospels to the resurrection to the i mean to his crucifixion resurrection ascension To the arrival of the holy spirit for us to continue the mission that jesus started That's who we are And this is such a wonderful passage to point out at the beginning of the year I told you that throughout the year we were going to shift focus as a church For the first two months of the year we focused on maturity trying to grow us as individuals For this 60-day period march and april we're focusing on community How do we build spiritual community in catalyst community church? I think that's a very important question given this passage. It's a very biblical question The church needs community We cannot just be a place where we sit together on sundays and you listen to A spirited adhd very good-looking orator right That can't be all we are Jim it might be who we are but it doesn't need to be all that we are We need to be a spiritual community That is connected throughout the week that's connected relationally to one another and to god That desires to live for jesus That is what the christian church is at its core And there are multiple ways to be involved in community I asked jerry to give me a list of all the small groups we have And he got them to me but the end of my week went a little haywire And so I will post them in the catalyst app miss casey if you'll help me remember just to send them out We'll send out all the different ways you can have community But i'll tell you this I can't make all of you like each other Right I can barely get all of you to like jim But I will tell you this And this is this is the non-joke part I believe there is a scriptural warrant and necessity For every christian to be in community with other christians That doesn't mean with every single person right all of us have our little pockets of people that we navigate to Like no offense. I love my son-in-law more than I love ethan That doesn't mean I don't love ethan right that doesn't mean that we don't go meet at duncan and we don't go talk about what jesus is doing in your life Right so community can look differently at different stages But if you are a part of the christian church and you are not connected to christian community you're doing it wrong We should know one another We should Love one another I think that's even in the book And we should love one another And we can't accomplish the mission that jesus left for us Without being the kind of community that jesus intended for us to be And just to step on my soapbox for a minute in our culture today And I I get the opportunity to do pastor training with my friends from africa So thursday I was online with some pastors in africa talking about what does ministry look like in their culture? And I have to admit heather it's just super awesome to be able to do that because when I see biblical values and warrant played out in a different culture It reminds me to question my cultural assumptions that I come to the table with What are the lenses? that my americanism Makes me see when I put them on and I read scripture That's not really in the text. It's in the lenses So working with asaf and my friends in uganda is a very huge privilege huge privilege, but it also makes me question certain things One of the things that I question Is the way we do church Not that the way we do church is bad but For the last like 30 something minutes 40 something minutes. I haven't lost count um You guys are all sitting there not talking and i'm doing a lot of talking This is a monologue Not even a dia log right or a try a log if too you wanted to jump in It's a monologue We have built the american church around the pulpit That I would argue comes all the way back from the reformation. I would say, you know gary I think almost the western church as a whole we built the church around the pulpit When the church was supposed to be built around the pews We got to fix that Like just I mean real talk me to you I've been in this life for 22 years The greatest problem I see in the western church is too much reliance on this and not enough reliance on that We built a system where you come to church and you sit and you listen to amazingly talented good music And you listen to an amazingly good-looking orator talk about an amazingly awesome scripture passage And then you give your money and you go back to your monday to saturday life And your christianity stayed here in the room and it doesn't change your monday to saturday life And that's why you don't see Big huge god-sized things It's because it's i'm not saying you know pastor tyler, please I don't think that i'm saying that what we do up here is not important. This is also important but it's not Any more or less important Than the community that all of you bring to the table The community that we should have in our relationship You know when I go over to stephen's house and we're talking coffee and when when jim and I meet and we're talking about work And then anthony and I are talking about hockey and ethan and I are talking about what we talk about at duncan And ray and I are praying together what goes on that's all community And then when i'm not even around And you guys are meeting up and and talking and having community. That's how more people come into the church I'm not saying we give up teaching good stuff I want to continue teaching good stuff. I want to even get better at teaching good stuff But there's no amount of me teaching good That will overtake you communitying bad And I mean I didn't mean for it to be heavy I mean for you to be my partner I'm going to give you my best while there is breath in my lungs cough or not. I'm going to give you my best effort every sunday Just I mean full disclosure and I was talking about the trial before church I didn't want to be here today Has anybody ever come to work and you're like, oh I gotta go to work, right? You ever drag yourself into work. You didn't sleep good. You didn't you don't feel rested your brain's distracted You got stuff outside. I mean I got 14 days to finish my thesis or it cost me five thousand dollars for another semester Huge amount of pressure I did not want to come to work today. I even told pastor tyler before the service Today's one of those days where I got to be faithful not excited Why because I have a job to do not just because like I work here but Christ the lord and messiah whom god has sent here has called me to do this job and jesus didn't ask me if I feel good About it Right. Jesus said do the job So if I as an example can stand up here on a workday when I did not want to be here and still have the privilege Of speaking about such an amazing passage That i'm going to say to all of you. I need you to be in christian community whether you want to do it or not Because that's who we are as a church and that's what we do Is we love people and through that loving people we put feet and hands and real faces and hugs On the gospel and then the gospel becomes more than just a story that preachers tell the gospel becomes live in the people in the church That's what we need to be So let me give you your takeaway and then mel I got like 11 minutes for questions if you want to start sending them to me Here's your takeaway The church is a community of people changed in thought and action because jesus is lord That is the slimmest sentence that I think I can write to try to get you that purpose The church is a community of people Changed in thought and action Because jesus is lord So my question for you today, do you know if you could leave that there for a minute? I don't know if you can leave that there for a minute Here's my question number one Are you a part of community in this church if not fix it number two Have you changed the way you think about jesus if not fix it? Do you live differently because of the way you think about jesus if not fix it why because he is lord Not because I am important not because I have any value not even because this church or this brick building has value The risen messiah and savior He has value He is worthy and that's why we are here We don't make jesus more worthy. We recognize his worthiness and we respond And that's why the church is a community of people changed in thought and action because jesus is lord Do you change the way you think do you change the way you live in response to his lordship?