Well, good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Coach Bill. I am privileged to be here with you today. This will be my last week with you. Pastor Bill will be back next week. So be sure to hold all of your comment cards and let him know exactly what you think of me. I appreciate it. As we conclude our series entitled, Back to Basics, my job was to come here and coach you to be a winner. I didn't come to Catalyst to coach losers. I came to coach winners. And as professional athletes will tell you, you can never outgrow the fundamentals of the game. You and I will never outgrow the fundamentals of the Christian faith. There are always small things that we must be conscious of, that we must focus on if we are to be fully successful in this thing we call being Christian. So let me give you the key thought that has strung all of these messages together. True success, true success comes from getting better at the basics. True maturity seeks out values and submits to correction along the way. And I can't stress that second sentence enough. True maturity, true spiritual maturity doesn't outgrow correction. It seeks it. True correction doesn't just give, I mean true maturity doesn't just give correction to others. It enjoys it when it is given. If you don't like being corrected, you're not done being matured. It's a nice easy way to know. If you do not value spiritual correction in your life, you are not as mature as you think you are. And if you give out more correction than you regularly seek, be careful. Just be careful. I'm not saying you're not mature. But I'm saying I can tell you this. I seek out and I make phone calls every single week. Talk to me, what am I doing good? What am I doing bad? How can I improve? How can I sharpen this area of my life? How can I become a better husband? How can I become a better father? How can I become a better teacher? How can I learn more with the time that I put into this, that or the next thing? Seek out correction. Today we will look at the final fundamental practice that every believer should have. And that is sharing the gospel. This is fundamental to the Christian faith. I'm going to share with you two passages. The first comes from the book of Matthew. So if you have your Bibles or if you're watching online, turn or tap to the gospel of Matthew. It should be really easy to find. It's the first book in the New Testament. Matthew. Mark the John. Matthew. We're going to go to the end of the book of Matthew. Matthew chapter 28 and we're going to start reading in verse 16. The first thing I need you to understand this morning is every believer is responsible to share the gospel. It is not my job. It is our job. Right? It's our job. I also totally dislike it when pastors try to get away with the idea that my Sunday sermon counts as sharing the gospel. No, my Sunday sermon counts as trying to encourage and exhort and educate believers. I'm not always sharing the gospel as much as I am teaching the rest of what's in the Bible. You understand the Bible is not the gospel. It contains the gospel. The Bible also contains lots of stuff that's not the gospel. We could talk through Old Testament law. In a couple of weeks, we're going to talk about the Ten Commandments. Next week, we're going to talk about why sex is good. Those are good biblical topics, but that doesn't make it all the gospel. So first thing I want to do, let's go to Matthew chapter 28. This may be a passage that's familiar to some of you. It's also called the Great Commission or the Great Co-mission. So let's look at it starting in verse 16. Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go. When they saw him, they worshiped him. But some doubted. Then Jesus came to them and said, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore, go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. So let's start with this as our foundation. Every believer is responsible to share the gospel, and this passage right here is exactly why. So let's rewind back to verse 16, and let me set the stage for you. This is the very last thing that happens in the gospel of Matthew. Pop quiz. Who wrote the book of Matthew? Matthew, that's fantastic. For a double gold star, what's Matthew's Hebrew name? Levi. Anybody who watches The Chosen, they would get that one, right? So Levi, double gold star. What was Matthew's daily occupation before being called to be a disciple? Tax collector. Totally right. Matthew is a Jewish tax collector. Does that make him popular or unpopular? Very, very unpopular. In his day and age, he was viewed as a traitor to his own people because he was collecting Jewish money and giving it to Romans and making a profit while betraying his people. So he's not a very popular Jew. Interestingly enough, Matthew is the most Jewish of the four gospels. The primary Christological or Jesus-centered message that Matthew is trying to give us is Jesus is the promised Messiah. And it's in this very Jewish-centric gospel that Matthew tells us after the resurrection, right? So this is when he says in verse 16, The eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go. Here's what I need you to understand. A, we are post-resurrection. So this is after Good Friday. This is after Easter Sunday. Jesus told his disciples, go back to Galilee. Meet me up there. Now remember your New Testament geography? You can remember if you draw a snowman, three circles, next to a barbell. So circle up here, line in a circle down here. Up here is Galilee, in the middle Judea, and the bottom is... Jerusalem is inside of what country? Judea. Good job, Jesse. So, Galilee, then Sumeria, then Judea, and on the side over here is the Jordan River. And it is up here, the Sea of Galilee, and it connects the Red Sea. If you can understand that little bit, you'll understand a whole lot more of what's happening in the New Testament. Now, Jesus rose in Jerusalem, because that's where they killed him. Joseph of Arimathea's tomb was there. But he tells them, boys, go meet me back in Galilee. Galilee is up here in the north. It's where Nazareth is. It's where Bethsaida is. It's where Capernaum is, which is Jesus' primary ministry hub, was out of the city of Capernaum. It's right there in the Sea of Galilee. That's the sea that Jesus calmed. That's where Peter, James, John, they fish. So he's going, dude, go meet me in the country. Go meet me back in the back 40. And let's talk. So Matthew begins this section by seeing the disciples as being obedient. They are going to where Jesus told them to go after his resurrection. Verse 17. When they saw him, they worshiped him. That's awesome. That's totally the right response to the Son of God. But I love the fact that that's not where Matthew left, verse 17. He said, but some doubted. This, I mean, this just really makes me happy. I don't know about you, but I'll be honest. I'm the kind of person that I need to understand something in order to feel it. Right? So for me, my head is the gatekeeper to my heart. I can feel something, but I get it way better if my brain can understand why I feel what I feel. And I feel like that's exactly what's happening here in verse 17. In fact, the root word for doubted is to have two of, like something that is double sided or a blade that is double edged. That's what that word doubted really means. It's having two sides. So here are the disciples being obedient to Jesus, going back up to Galilee to continue learning from him in the 40 days between Passover and Pentecost. Jesus is on earth in his glorified form, post resurrection, teaching the disciples. But there were a couple of people that were like, Sharita, I want to believe, but part of me doesn't get it. And I don't know about you, but that makes me feel really good. I want to believe, but part of me doesn't understand yet. I feel that way a lot. It's ultimately why I decided to go into the field of apologetics is because I want to understand why I believe. I don't think that belief is wrong and I don't think that understanding is wrong. I just want the two to go together to where it makes sense. And that's where we see in verse 17. There's a little bit of this double-sidedness like I want. I worship. I also thought that it's interesting. He said they worshiped, but some doubted the doubt didn't stop the worship. They were still willing to worship him, even though you know what? I don't get it all yet. I'm going to I'm going to go. You're still got I'm going to go with it. Verse 18. Then Jesus came to them and said, Verse 18 is where this command begins. Most people start the Great Commission in verse 18. Therefore, go and make disciples. That is wrong. Anytime you see the word therefore in scripture, what's the first question you're supposed to ask? What's it there for? Right. If there's a therefore in the text, it's saying because of that this if you begin the Great Commission in verse 19, therefore, go and make disciples. You're missing. Why? We make disciples. You're getting the what? Therefore, go and make disciples. But why, Jesus? Why I do that? See the guy that needs to understand. I don't have a problem being obedient, but help me understand. Why should I be obedient? Why should I do what you're telling me to do? If you don't start in verse 18, you miss the why behind the what? So what does verse 18 say? All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. The authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. The authority to share the gospel message comes from Jesus himself. That's why therefore go make disciples. You should not go out and make disciples and share the gospel because you are important. I love you. You're not that important, right? Because Coach Bill didn't have to care how you feel. I just need you to be a winner. So we don't go share the gospel because we're important. We don't go share the gospel because our church is important. We don't go share the gospel because of... Here's another one. We don't go share the gospel because there are lost people. No, we share the gospel because Jesus' authority told us to go do it. Here's the problem if you get the motivation behind the gospel wrong. If you're sharing the gospel because you think you're important, then you're rooting your sharing of faith in your own pride. And when that pride comes to the fall, you no longer have a reason to share the gospel. If you're sharing the gospel because your church is important and you want your church to grow, and then you get offended at something at church like we've all done, and then you're like, I don't care about that church tomorrow. I'm going to go find another church. Coach Bill is just too much. Then you don't have the motivation anymore. Here's my question. Will Jesus' authority ever change? Exactly. Jesus is the Son of God, second member of the Trinity. He has always had the authority. He always will have the authority. And if that is our motivation, our obedience to the king, then that motivation will never falter. It will never change, and it will never stop. But if you get the motivation behind the gospel wrong, here's the other thing. If you're sharing the gospel because it feels good, then what happens when it doesn't feel good? Or what happens when I don't like that group of people that I feel like I should share the gospel with? But what happens when God told me to do it? Does my feelings matter? No. Does my liking or disliking of that group of people matter? No. What matters is, daddy said do it, shut up, go do it. Like it's a very simple process. Parents, let me just ask you a question. When your children were toddlers or teenagers, did their feelings matter to their obedience? No. At a certain point we do try to explain why as parents we make rules, right? But I'm not going to sit here and have an in-depth conversation with my four-year-old of why seat belts are important. I know why they're important. I'm also not going to explain to my four-year-old why ice cream is not an acceptable breakfast food, because I absolutely think it is. So that's not a rule in my house. The day after Valentine's Day, so my family didn't celebrate Valentine's Day. On Valentine's Day we celebrate it the next day, because all the candy is 50% off. Like come on man, let's be a little capitalistic here. So we went out the day after Valentine's Day, we called it Yom Zin Tines Day. We went to Walgreens, we bought 50% off chocolate, and that's what my children had for breakfast. We had chocolate breakfast the day after Valentine's Day. Now do we do that every day? No. But there's nothing wrong with blessing my children when they know how to live in obedience. Here's the problem with sharing the gospel. I think everybody in Christendom agrees we should share the gospel, but none of you get the fact that if you don't do it, you're the ones living in disobedience. You're the disobedient toddler, because he's the father. I'm not the father. It is not my job, because here's the other thing. When we get to eternity, praise Jesus, I don't have to answer for your failures. I have to answer for mine. And because I have chosen to stand up here, because I have chosen to try to teach you his word, I got to answer for if I fail to teach his word, I'm going to have to stand up here. If I fail to teach his word correctly, praise God, I don't have to answer for if you can't get off your butts and be obedient. That's going to be on you. So when all authority begins with Jesus, he says, on heaven and on earth, there is no authority greater than Jesus. And now look at the beginning of verse 19. Therefore, it is because of the authority of Jesus, because of my authority, go and make disciples. This is a directive. This is a command. This is not when you get to it. This is not, hey, if it's convenient. This is not if it fits into your class schedule or your work schedule or if your neighbors are nice to you on that day of the week or if you're stuck on the train or in traffic or on the phone. There's no if in this command. It is a divine directive from the king of kings. You can't believe he's the king of kings and still give yourself the right to be disobedient. Because he might be the king of kings, but he's not the king of you. If we truly believe that Jesus had all authority and Jesus says, go do that. Yes, sir, I'm on it. Therefore, go and make disciples what? Of all nations. Now, here's the crux. Remind yourself, who wrote the Gospel of Matthew? Matthew. What did Jews in the first century think of Gentiles? Uh-uh. Second class, right? The Jews know they are the chosen people of God. They don't like Gentiles. They really don't like Samaritans. So here's a Jewish tax collector, a guy who was already on the out now. And he said, go and make disciples of all nations. That word all nations is literally ethnos. It sounds an awful lot like our English word ethnicity or ethnic. Matthew is queuing in on a very big problem within first century Judaism, which is they don't like anybody who's not Jewish. And he's saying, no, no, no, you don't get it. Because of the resurrection, because of Jesus, because of his authority, he didn't say go and make disciples of just our nation. He said go and make disciples of all nations. This grates at the heart of rabbinic Judaism. They saw themselves as the chosen people of God, which is a true statement. They are. They are still the chosen people of God. But what were they chosen for? They were not chosen just to be the special kid who gets all the free presents. They were chosen to be his representatives and tell the rest of the world how much he loves them. That's the big story of the Old Testament. If I could boil it down to a single sentence, God chooses special people to make everyone else know who he is. That's the Old Testament in pocket. When Matthew here says because of Jesus's authority, notice the all. All authority is Jesus's. Go make disciples of all nations. Here's the second all. All nations means I want you to break down your barriers. There is no ethnic group that is outside the love of God. There is no group of people. There is no activity. There is no sin. There is no skin color, language, gender, ethnicity, sexual identity that is outside the love of God. Go make disciples. Everybody. That's the new international bill version. Because of Jesus's supreme authority, we are responsible to go make disciples of everybody. Everybody say that. Everybody. Right. That would not have been very pleasing to a first century Jewish ear. Sadly, it's not really pleasing to Christian ears today. We don't really want to carry the gospel everywhere. We want to carry the gospel to the people who look like us, talk like us, have an income stream that's relatively our size. Why? Because we're comfortable being around all those people. But the reality is Jesus is saying because of my authority, you don't get to pick and choose anymore. Your job is to carry my message of love and hope to all ethnos, all groups of people. Go make disciples of all nations. And here's what you're going to do. Number one, baptize them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. And don't separate it from verse 20. And teach them to obey. So now I'm going to tell you something that only a few people in the church know because I haven't gotten to talk about baptism with everybody. So here's the deal. Jim, may I pick on you for a moment? Great. Lisa said yes. So when Jim goes out and he begins to share the gospel in his life and Jim leads someone to beginning to place their faith in Jesus, the very next step is for that someone to get baptized. Here's unless you and I have had this conversation. Here's what you don't get. I refuse to baptize that person as the pastor because the Bible says it's Jim's job. The Bible says right here, all of you need to go and make disciples. All of you need to go baptize. Here's what I've learned in 20 years of ministry. If you lead someone to Christ and then you stand with them in that baptismal tank and you baptize them and you dedicate their life to God, if you walk out of the water with a unique authority and relationship to help guide them to live like Jesus, when you bring someone to me who I don't know, who I've not invested in, and all I do is stand up there in some holy ritual and get them wet in church, I don't have the relationship to finish doing the job that's here in verse 20, teach them to obey. You do. The few times, the few privileged times that I have been allowed to baptize someone that I personally led to Christ, we come out of the water with a totally different relationship. When you guys bring someone to church and I've not invested in them at all and they go, oh, I want to follow Jesus, absolutely we're going to get baptized. We're going to do that. But when you chicken out and don't do the rest of your job and you leave me to carry your light work, you've killed what's supposed to happen in verse 20, teach them to obey. See, because I don't know, and let's just say it took Jim 6 to 8 weeks of slow prayerful conversation with this person to choose to place their faith in Christ. Jim's got 6 to 8 weeks worth of relational equity already built up in that life to lead them to following Jesus. Then when Jim stands up there and in front of the whole church, he baptizes that person into the faith. Jim walks out of the water with more spiritual authority in that person's life than I could gain in a lifetime because he had the authority before he went in the water. See, when you relegate baptism to the professional pastors, right, and for some reason, I don't know why we've done this, but we have this idea that I, for some reason, have some sort of special authority that you don't have. No, I have special responsibility that you don't have. I'm responsible for the church, responsible for all that's taught here under its roof, but I don't actually have any more authority than you do because it said here, all authority has been given to Jesus. All authority is his. Now, in his authority, he's vested responsibility. Guess what? He's vested responsibility in you. And yes, I may have chosen Jim as an example, but ladies, you're not off the hook. There is not a single Bible verse that says women can't baptize. Like, come on now, don't be stupid. Let's not extend beyond where we need to go. I would allow a teenager to baptize another teenager if that teenager was instrumental in the conversion of that new faith believer, period. But we don't let, for some reason, we don't do this. In my church in Virginia, we had one person, it was a grandmother, and she was instrumental in her grandchild. I don't remember if it was granddaughter or grandchild. Grandchild coming to place faith in Jesus. And when I sit down with a baptismal candidate, first question I ask is, what does baptism mean? When they get that one right, second question, who most influenced you to want to follow Jesus? Because that's the person who should be in the water with you. Not me. I don't need to do that. You relegate it to me because either you're too scared and you're too fearful about obeying Jesus, or you just don't know how. Well, I don't have a problem with the how. I can teach you how to do it. You can practice in the pool at home. I don't care. It's not the water that makes it important. It's the Word of God. You need to show up and be obedient. So when we read here in verse 19, there's no people outside the love of God. You have no right to not share the gospel with somebody, regardless if you like them or not. Your likes or dislikes, do not rule them outside of God's divine love. Number two, it's your job to baptize them and, 20, teach them to obey everything I have commanded. And here's where the rubber really meets the road. Most people don't want to do this because they don't live in obedience themselves. When you become the disciple maker, right? My example with Jim, he's invested 6 to 8 weeks of his life leading someone and drawing someone to place their faith in Christ. When you put yourself in that example, your lifestyle authorizes their decisions. And that's what most of you are too afraid to try. And what's sad is there's such a blessing that comes out of this position. But you have to realize that when you place yourself in a position of leadership, even if you're just leading one person, you're leading this person to discover Jesus, you're leading this person to obey the Holy Spirit, you're leading this person to decide to choose grace instead of sin, to decide to choose God instead of self. Your lifestyle, the way you live, the way you speak, the way you treat your spouse, the way you are at work, the way you are at home, everything about your life becomes the example for them to follow. My actions authorize their choices. That's the weight of the mantle of teach them to obey. Because what happens if Jim tries to teach this new convert something that Jim doesn't do? They have a word for that. Jim's a hypocrite, right? Nobody wants to be a hypocrite. Here's the funny thing. If you never get in the game, I mean, Coach Jesse will tell you, if you don't actually get on the court and play the game, then you're nothing but a spectator. You're just sitting in the stands. And I don't care if you know all the names of the sports ball players and you know all the cool plays and you might know when Coach is going to blow his whistle and why that time out was important. I don't get any of that stuff. But there are people who do. I respect it. There are people who do. I don't really care how knowledgeable you are. If you're still sitting on the stands, you are useless to the kingdom of God. You are not accomplishing the goal. All of us should be sharing the gospel, drawing people to Jesus, baptizing them and discipling them. I hate the fact that we call it the Great Commission. I think it should be called the Great Co-mission because it's Anthony's mission and it's Tom's mission and it's my mission and it's Megan's mission and it's Donna's mission and it's Dave's mission and it's Melissa's mission. It's not my mission, mine by myself. You know what's really funny about being a pastor? I have the hardest time getting time to spend with nonbelievers. You would think that as a pastor coming to church and working with the word of God, it's a privilege, don't get me wrong, working with the best church secretary that's ever been put on the planet, it's a privilege. But I struggle to find times to rub elbows with nonbelievers. And if I don't get a chance to get around unbelievers, I will never get the chance to be obedient to this passage of scripture. I spend so much time getting ready for y'all and getting ready to teach believers to go do the job, it's hard for me to find the time to go do the job myself. So there's a lot, in fact I'm in a group on Facebook of pastors from all over the country and there's a lot of bivocational pastors who get on themselves, meaning those pastors who have to have a day job and also pastor their church. And they get on and like, man I just wish I could be full time, I wish that. And I'm like, you know what, as a full time pastor I struggle to find time for unbelievers. At least in the seasons of our marriage, when I was bivocational and I was working at the design shop or at the t-shirt shop or whatever, at least I got to have interactions with unbelievers on a daily basis. You know, I got to find out what the real world is like. Because what I found is most people don't go to church six days a week. So I'm in the minority when it comes to being able to be obedient. So if you're looking at yourself and going, pastor, like I got work, I got school, I got chores at home, mom and dad expect me to do stuff, yeah that's fine. But understand that you are in a target rich environment. I struggle to get around one or two a week. I go to the gym not only because I like the gym, but because at least at the gym I'm not around all Christians. You know, I know that Megan and Jesse do basketball, guess what, target rich environment. That's wonderful. Put yourself in an environment like that and then put your radar up and be ready to do this. So we go, we make disciples, we baptize them, we teach them to obey everything I've commanded and then the end of verse 20, surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. There's another all built in there. Jesus is with you at all times. So we make disciples because Jesus contains all authority. We make disciples of all people groups because nobody's out of the mix. Everybody baptizes, everybody teaches, and everybody's got Jesus with you every day while you do it. Does that make sense? So do you, can I move on? Do you now accept the fact that when you leave here today, your job is to go share the gospel with somebody? Okay, fantastic. Now let's talk about what the gospel is because that's an even more convoluted thing. Please look at the back of your bulletin. Underneath the red line where there is the scripture references, I've boiled the gospel down to a single sentence. This sentence comes from a lengthy paper I had to write at the end of my master's degree. I had to try to defend what is the original gospel, the very first gospel that was ever taught about Jesus. And what was that? So here is my one sentence gospel. Because of the deity death and resurrection of Jesus, we can be sure that God will fulfill his promises. Because of the deity death and resurrection of Jesus, we can be sure God will fulfill his promises. You know what's not in there? Doctrine. See, so here's where, this is my opinion now. I'm not going to say that this is the full word of God. I'm going to say this is my opinion. We've made the gospel difficult to share because as the church has grown and matured, we have a very deep doctrinal understanding of exactly what the gospel does. What the gospel does is different from what the gospel is. So if you have to try to start preaching the gospel by first convincing someone that they're a sinner, then they need a savior. In my opinion, you've got the cart before the horse. The thief on the cross did not get a giant theological treatise from Jesus. Understanding the nature of original sin and the justification and the substitutionary death and atonement, he didn't get all of that. The thief on the cross looked over at the savior and said, please remember me when you come into your kingdom. In that simple sentence, he understood that there would be a resurrection. He understood in the resurrection that Jesus would be king. And he understood that his place in the resurrection would be fully based on his faith in Christ. The thief on the cross got saved without any theology behind it. It is my opinion as the pastor-apologist that you don't have to start with theology. We just point to Jesus. The theology can come next, but we start by pointing to Jesus. As an illustration, let's turn to the book of Acts chapter 10. The book of Acts chapter 10. This is what I'm going to call the Gentile gospel. So while you're turning to Acts 10, let me give you the back story here. The four gospels give us the story of Jesus's earthly ministry. All four gospels end at the resurrection of Jesus. The book of Acts picks up dovetailing. Chapter one overlays on the very end of the gospel of Luke. And the book of Acts then tells us how the early church carried the gospel message. Acts chapter one, we see the final words from Jesus and his ascension. Acts chapter two, Pentecost. The Holy Spirit falls in Jerusalem and the Jerusalem Jewish church is born. If you go back and look at Peter's sermon in Acts chapter two, I was going to do Acts chapter two and Acts chapter 10. And I was like, if I try to do all of this, you all are going to be needing some Taco Bell midway. So let's just jump to the Gentile gospel. But if you look in Acts chapter two, just to give you a short preview, Peter goes through the history of the Jewish people. He shows that they were waiting for a resurrected Messiah and Jesus is that Messiah. The reason I want us to go to Acts chapter 10 is Acts chapter 10 is at a man named Cornelius' house. This is where the gospel first shows up to Gentiles. Now, my background, my ethnicity, my tribe, we're Hawaiians, Native Hawaiian. My father is from Hawaii. He was born there. He met a beautifully wonderful white woman, moved to New Jersey. That tells you how beautiful my mother was. He gave up the Hawaiian beach for the New Jersey snow. Okay. My mother was amazing. So my people are Gentile through and through. My people are polytheistic from the middle of the Pacific Ocean, coconut bikinis and sushi all day. I mean, my people worship the God of the ocean, the God of the volcano, the God of the sky. You know, I'm as polytheistic as they come in my heritage. So this Gentile gospel is all I would have gotten. The reason we're going to 10 instead of two is because you and I live in a culture today that is post-Christian. We do not have a shared biblical knowledge in America. I'll give you a great example. There's a new friend of mine I've made. He probably is watching, so I'm not going to say his name. But a young man that I have become privileged enough to build a friendship with, to begin investing with, he likes to ask me questions about God. He's not super sure about Jesus yet. We're starting to read the Bible together. Like I said, I have to struggle to find these opportunities. This young man is in his early 20s. Went out and bought a Bible a couple of weeks ago and opened it. And for the first time, I had to teach him where the chapter numbers are, where the verse numbers are in the text. Hey, when I say turn to John 3, there's a John, then there's a one and a two. There's four Johns. Which John? This is not the first time I've encountered a young person who's fully American, who's never owned or read a Bible into their 20s. Now, those of us who were raised in the Christian church, when I say turn to John 3, 16, you could find it immediately. Because you have a shared tribal knowledge. Right? You could probably just recite it, right? We have a shared tribal knowledge of God's Word. The culture that exists right outside this campus does not. We must be able to bring the Gospel clean and straight. And not try to import so much biblical theology that they have to learn stuff before they can place their faith in Jesus. Jesus saves, theology teaches. They're related, but they're different. I absolutely believe when we make it to the gates of heaven, the only question that will matter is did I place my faith in Jesus? Not, hold up, can you pass this systematic theology exam first to make sure you're truly saved? No, that means you are truly educated. And trust me, I love teaching. You guys want to learn systematic theology? I'll teach you all day long. But systematic theology doesn't save. Jesus' death and defeat of sin saves. That's where we got to go. So let's go to Acts chapter 10. I want to look at verses 34 to 43. Remember, this is Peter. He has been called by the Holy Spirit to Cornelius' house. He lives in a place called Caesarea Philippi. Acts chapter 10, starting in 34. He's now speaking at Cornelius' house. Then Peter began to speak. I now realize how true it is that God does not show favoritism, but accepts from every nation the ones who fear him and does what is right. 36. You know the message of God sent to the people of Israel, announcing the good news of peace through Jesus Christ, who is Lord of all. You know what happened throughout the province of Judea, beginning in Galilee after the baptism John preached. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and power. How he went around doing good and healing all who were under the power of the devil because God was with him. 39. We are witnesses of everything he did in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They killed him by hanging him on a cross, but God raised him from the dead on the third day and caused him to be seen. 41. He was not seen by all the people, but by the witnesses whom God had already chosen. 42. By us who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. He commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one who was appointed as judge of the living and the dead. All the prophets testify about him that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name. Now let's go back. Remember, Peter is a Jew. Peter is now bringing the gospel to an ethnos, an ethnic group that would be outside his comfort zone. In fact, the story is so cool. If you go back and look, God has to give Peter a vision. That's that story, don't call anything unclean that I have made clean. And God also gives Cornelius a vision. Go call this dude Peter. He's got some news for you. So God sets up this divine appointment for Peter to go to Cornelius' house in Caesarea Philippi and share the message of Jesus for the very first time with people outside the Jewish faith and outside the Jewish tribe. This is why I like Acts chapter 10. First, look in 34, 35, Peter says, I now realize how true it is that God does not show favoritism but accepts from every ethnos, from every nation, those who fear him and do what is right. Peter now has to walk out. He has to walk into a Gentile home, which would have been against the Jewish faith. He would have been ceremonially unclean according to the rabbinic law the moment he walked into this house. So now Peter has a choice. Do I obey Jesus or do I obey religion? I choose Jesus. He walks into this Greco-Roman home and he says, okay guys, I get it. And what's cool is if you look at the whole story, Cornelius wasn't, it wasn't just like him and his wife. He didn't like keep it on the DL. He grabbed everyone is an entire home. All of his servants, his entire estate was there in the living room dripping to hear what Peter wanted to say because God was ready to speak to them. God was ready to unveil his power and the Holy Spirit on these Gentiles. And he says, okay, I get it. Looking at all y'all. God doesn't show favoritism anymore. Now he starts talking about Jesus. You know the message God sent to the people of Israel announcing the good news of peace through Jesus Christ who is Lord of all. This is that Jesus is the way, the truth and the life and no man comes to the Father but through him. Peter scope locks in on one thing and one thing only. I'm sure by now you guys have heard the news of Jesus, right? Like it's a thing. Like if TikTok and Twitter were a thing in the first century, I'm sure they would have heard about it. Gossip travels on whatever its fastest medium is all the time. So just because we're in the first century does not mean that people weren't going, oh my God, did you hear? Right? So Peter knows they've heard rumors. They've heard this. They've heard that. You know the message that God sent through the people of Israel announcing the good news of peace through Jesus Christ who is Lord of all. 37. You know what has happened through the province of Judea beginning in Galilee, the baptism of John. 38. God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit in power and then he starts talking about all that he did. Jesus' miracles set him apart from all other teachers. You notice Peter is not making a theological argument. He's not saying, okay, you crappy Romans. You horrible sinful polytheistic pagan idiots. Let me tell you how disgusting you are so I can magnify how great God is. That was not Peter's tack. Peter went, okay, so you heard about this guy named Jesus, right? He did tons of miracles. That was it. There's no accusation. There's no you need to get it right. There's no you need to stop sleeping with your servant. There's no we need to go through your house. Let me take all the idols out before I talk to you about Jesus. None of that. Peter just boom goes right to Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. Jesus is Lord of all. Because of God's power, Jesus did miracles which set him apart from all other teachers. 39 and 40. We are witnesses of everything he did in the country of the Jews in Jerusalem. They killed him by hanging him on a cross, but God raised him from the dead on the third day and caused him to be seen. What makes Jesus greater than all other religious figures? The resurrection. He doesn't start with theology. He starts, middle, and ends with Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. That doesn't mean theology doesn't have his place. But guys, can we please stop making the gospel difficult? One of the reasons that this is my personal opinion, right? So we'll put God's word on hold. This is just coach Bill's opinion here. One of the reasons I think that we make that we don't see more gospel being shared is because people are too intimidated by what it includes. Like, wait, am I going to have to answer all the questions about like Genesis and original sin? And did God really create in six days or is it six eons? No, all of that is Bible interpretation. Move all of that to the side. Just let me tell you about Jesus. Can we just focus on Jesus? If Jesus is truly all that saves, Jesus is truly all you need. But because we have the beautiful revelation of God. And don't get me wrong, those of you who grew up with the Romans wrote about evangelism strategy, like it's not wrong. That theology is not wrong. But that theology only works when you have a culture with a shared biblical knowledge that understands words like sin and grace. When you walk out into our very, very secular culture today, you're going to have to come with something different because they're immediately going to respond to you and say, well, you know, your Bible has errors in it. The four gospels weren't written when you think they were written. So I really can't trust anything that you say about Jesus because they were written hundreds of years later and they have discrepancies. And now your message of sinner and savior doesn't get off the ground. Because you started with something more complicated than you needed. Now, when we get to Easter Sunday, I just finished writing an apologetic booklet that we're going to give away on Easter Sunday that gives you a way to share the gospel in a historical setting outside the gospels. The very first message, the first written message of the gospel actually comes from Paul, not from Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Paul's writing of the gospel occurs within 22 years of the resurrection. And in the booklet, I give you the timeline that comes out of Corinthians and Galatians. Paul got saved 18 to 24 months after the resurrection. 18 to 24 months is not enough time for some sort of legendary story. It's not enough time for us to copy the gods of Egypt or the gods of Zoroastrianism. Not enough time. 18 to 24 months after 9-11, no one's going to lie to you about what happened on that day. No one's going to come to you and say, it was actually Canadians in helicopters, not terrorists in planes. Why? Because I was alive that day, bro. I know what happened. That's what Paul is, that's what Peter is saying here. We were witnesses. That's the only thing you need. I'm a witness to what Jesus did. That's the gospel. Everything else after it is the accoutrements that make it bigger. 41, he was not seen by all people, but by witnesses whom God had already chosen. And look at this, by those who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. This specifically challenges one of the heresies that was taught about Jesus about 100 years after this. That said Jesus didn't actually resurrect in bodily form. He was kind of like the Jedi Jesus. He was a hologram. Right? So that's a heresy. And you'll remember Jedi Jesus more than the actual name, so I'll just go with it. You know, when Obi-Wan appears in that blue, you know, for all my dork friends, you guys are with me, right? Come on. Matt, you got me, right? Yeah, thumbs up. So all of my geek friends, you totally get Jedi Jesus. No, Jesus physically rose in bodily form. That's why there's no body in the tomb. And that's why you and I have a promise of a bodily resurrection. We ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. 42, he commanded us to preach. When did he do that? In Galilee that Matthew recorded later. He said, hey, meet me in Galilee. I'm going to tell you what you need to do. You need to go do this. I don't know about you, but if I saw Jesus fully bodily resurrected from the dead, I'd probably just say yes, sir, and go do whatever he told me to do. But why do you and I doubt that today? Is it that we doubt the bodily resurrection of Jesus? Is it we doubt the hope that that brings? Or is it that we just don't have the fortitude to be obedient? I'm not really sure. Then we get to 43. All the prophets testify about him that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sin through his name. That's the first time that theology comes into play is after faith. He said, for all of those who believe in him, they will receive the forgiveness of sins. Peter doesn't start with sin to explain a savior. He starts with Jesus, who Jesus was, what he did, that Jesus rose. And that's why he's the savior. And that's why the gospel saves. This is the gospel message that I want to empower all of you to save. So look again, give me the one sentence gospel. Give it to me one more time. One sentence. Because of the deity death and resurrection of Jesus, we can be sure God will fulfill his promises. Now some of you are asking, why did I put the very end of that line? Because the resurrection of Jesus isn't just for salvation. It's for the restoration of a kingdom promise that was made way back in the beginning of the Old Testament. And there are some Old Testament promises that Jesus has yet to fulfill. So this is the full story of the Bible from beginning to end. Jesus is the king of kings. His kingdom is not here yet, but the book of Revelation tells us it's coming. It's on the way. We'll get into that later this year. But Jesus did not just die and resurrect to save from sin. That would be the theological application of his death and resurrection. He died and rose because there are some outstanding promises about a kingdom and about a land and about a people and about a future. And all of those promises are good because Jesus rose. All of that. So you can take that one sentence and really unpack it and develop it in different ways. But the basics are all here. The deity death and resurrection of Jesus. John chapter 11 verse 25, I do not believe I have it for you on the screen, says, I am the resurrection in the life. The one who believes in me will live even though they die. That's Jesus' own words about himself. So let me give you, this is also on the back of your bulletin here, four gospel sharing guides. Four things you need to know on how to share the gospel. First one, knowing about Jesus is not enough. Knowing about Jesus, knowing historical facts about him or knowing Bible verses that mention him, intellectual knowledge about Jesus does not save. How do I know that? Because the Bible says that even the demons know who Jesus is. Okay? So merely knowing facts about Jesus. And I would say the apologist in me has got to really hold back on this one. Because there are a lot of facts you can know. But facts don't equal faith. Faith has to be that willful step of trust. Trust in action. That's my definition of faith. So first, knowing about Jesus is not enough. Even the demons know he's God. Number two, adding theology is not necessary. That doesn't mean it's not bad. I'm not trying to say that. So for all of you who are gearing up for your comment section, I'm not saying your theology is bad. What I'm saying is theology doesn't save. Jesus saves. Let's not complicate the message of the gospel. Adding theology is not necessary. Faith saves, not knowledge. Number three, faith precedes growth. Faith must precede growth. Do not expect non-believers to act like believers. Please don't do that. Please don't go into a non-believer environment expecting them to act like a saint when they don't even have a savior yet. Come on, man. How many... You catch the fish before you clean it. It's the same thing. We need to stop expecting unbelievers to act like they're righteous. Unbelievers are going to act like they're selfish because that's all unbelievers have. They're not centered on God. They're centered on self. And that's a discipleship issue. It should not be a barrier to the gospel. God loves you, wants a relationship with you. That's all we have to say. And number four, this one's the hard one. Jesus is the only way. No exceptions. Jesus said it about himself in John 11, 25. I am the resurrection of life. The one who believes in me will live even though they die. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father but through me. Now, this is the one that culture is not going to like. Let's just be honest. When we walk out into culture and say Jesus is the only way to have a relationship with God, you're going to get hit with, that is so exclusionary. You are not being inclusive enough of other religions. Right? That's what they're going to say. So, let me put my apologist hat on. Here's how you handle that. The lights above us right now, are they on or off? How do you know that? Because the evidence says they're there. Right? On a light. Now, these are non-dimmable, so it's just on and off. There's only two choices. The lights either on or the lights off. No matter how much Dan wants me to believe that that light is off, right? I know it's on. The truth is reality states the light is on. Truth is like a light switch. Things are true and things are false. And I really don't care how you feel. Two plus two equals? You're absolutely sure. Be on a shadow of a doubt. What happens when someone comes to you and says, that's really exclusionary. Like I believe that two plus two equals five. And I'd really like you to honor my belief that two plus two equals five. Does any amount of belief make that person right? So, why is religion any different? See, Jesus being the only way is either true or false. If it's true, then we have a requirement to share it. If it's false, I can be wrong. And this is what I tell people who disagree with me all the time. I'm totally able to be wrong. But what I'm not going to do is tell you that two opposing statements can both be true. That light is not both on and off at the same time. Now, if someone were back there going click, click, click, click, click, click, right? But then you're changing the reality of the light. Truth by its very nature is exclusive. For people who want to have this sort of relativistic truth, what I always ask them is, listen, I really hear where you're coming from. But what you don't understand is you're trying to tell me that I have to agree with your version of truth, right? When somebody says, well, I think we need to respect all religions have to be true. They're making a truth claim. Wait a minute. So, you're telling me it's not okay for me to disagree with you, but it's totally okay for you to force me to agree with you. You're doing the very thing you're telling me I'm not allowed to do. That's what relativism does. It tries to tell you that all truth is relative. That's a truth claim. Prove it. Jesus is the only way. That's a truth claim. Prove it. Right? That's where the apologist in me comes in. That's a truth claim. Prove it. The reality is all religions cannot be true. It's a falsehood. The atheist says there is no God. The theist, that's us, Christians, we say there is one God. The polytheist, there are multiple Gods. The pantheist, God is inside nature. All of these things can't be true at the same time. If one of them is true, by default, the others are false. 2 plus 2 equals? It doesn't matter that 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13 and 2711 are all numbers. They're not the right answer. And no matter how many numbers exist, 2 plus 2 will always equal? Right. If you really want to test a polytheistic or relativistic view of the universe, go into the bank. Go up to your bank teller and say, you know what? I'm feeling good today. I feel good. I'm feeling good today. I feel like a million dollars. I would like to have a half a million dollars in cash, please. What's the bank teller going to do? The bank teller is going to pull up your bank account balance and be like, Pastor Will, I'm sorry, you only got about 20 bucks. So, maybe you're feeling more like a 17 dollar day. No, no, no, but I totally feel like a million dollars. And I feel that I deserve a million dollars. I only want half of what I deserve. No matter how you feel, it doesn't change your bank account balance. The reality of what's there doesn't change based on feeling. The reality is Jesus either is the way, the truth, and the life, and there's no way to God. That's a truth claim. Either Jesus is right or Jesus is wrong, there's no middle ground. You can't say Jesus is right for us but not right for them. That's not the way truth works. 2 plus 2 always equals 4. You can't say, well, it equals 5 for them and that group over there, they really like 2 plus 2 equals 7. So, they can have, that's not the way truth works. When we share the gospel, don't be afraid. Because here's the other thing. You're sharing the gospel in the authority of Jesus. The feelings of man don't change his authority. Now, here's the other thing. And as an apologist, I got to tell you this. When you share the gospel, you're trying to win a soul, not a fight. Yeah? So, I will go ahead and apologize on behalf of many of the apologists out there because a lot of them just like to win arguments. They don't like to win souls. The pastor in me has to balance the truth philosophy apologist in me and say, there is a point at which the person's feelings do matter. You can't beat someone over the head so much that they no longer hear your message of love. All they hear is a message of judgment. As Christians, we've done that pretty badly, right? So, we need to love. But here's the deal. Not telling someone the truth is not loving. I love my children enough to tell you, don't touch the stove, it's going to burn your hand. Don't touch the stove, it's going to burn your hand. It's always going to be true. If the stove is on, don't touch the stove, it's going to burn your hand. You disobey me, touch the stove, guess what? You just burn your hand. Now, I will help you feel better in your pain. But doesn't change the truth of what I said. I have this conversation all the time online with atheists. And they're like, well, you believe God exists. He either exists or he doesn't, period. There's no middle ground. Either the evidence suggests he does or the evidence suggests he doesn't. And any good crime scene detective, Gary, what was that term? The totality of circumstance, right? So, the totality of circumstance. When you look at all the variables, what do they say? When you share the gospel, all you got to do is focus on Jesus. So, here's what I want to do. Number one, go ahead and give me the takeaway so I can bring this in for a landing. Here's the takeaway. Every Christ follower, by the way, that's every single person in the room and every single person watching this online. No matter if you're watching it after the fact or not. If you have placed your faith in Jesus, you are responsible to share the message of Jesus with as many people as possible.