Good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. Pastor Bill couldn't be here today so he sent me in his place. I'm Coach Bill. And here's what I need you to know, the difference between Pastor Bill and Coach Bill. See when Pastor Bill's up here, Pastor Bill needs to be concerned about how you feel about the word of God. Pastor Bill needs to be concerned about if you feel encouraged. Coach Bill don't care. Say that with me. Coach Bill don't care. Yup. You know why? Because Coach Bill came to coach winners, not losers. Think about a pro athlete. Let's use Steph Curry as an example. Pro basketball player. Did you know that when you reach a certain level, you have individual coaches who have to correct individual things? Steph Curry has a shooting coach, a strength coach, probably a nutritionist, a chef and a life coach to keep his mental game on point all the times that he's off the court so he can play better on the court. You never outgrow the fundamentals if you want to be successful. You never outgrow the basics. So Coach Bill came today instead of Pastor Bill so we can try to get back to the basics. I could hold this basketball and I can dress like a coach. Thank you Jessie for trying to make me look right. I appreciate that. But you know what the difference is? No matter how good I look, and I look good don't I? No matter how good I look, if Jessie and I were to go outside right now and play one on one on the hoop in the parking lot, you're going to really quickly tell who's the basketball player and who's not, right? You're lucky if I can dribble it and put it in the circle. But you know what's funny? If I don't ever play, you can't tell the difference. If all I do is dress like I'm on the team and I can walk around and I can carry the ball and I can try to make it look like I'm a player. But as soon as I step on the court and I try to actually do the job of a basketball player, can tell who's a mature season player and who's not. So my job today and for the next several weeks is to try and take you back to the basics of Christianity. The basic fundamental elements of what it means to be a successful Christian. Because you can dress the right way. You can carry the right things. You can come to church and know all the right lingo. I had to call Bill and ask him what 3 seconds in the paint meant. Because he sent me a whole list of basketball lingo and I was like, okay, traveling, I understand that one. Pass, shooting and at the bottom of the list, he said 3 seconds in the paint. I went, what? See? I know I'm not a basketball player. Which is why it's funny for me to dress up like I'm a basketball coach. Because you guys all know. I mean, I'll beat you at chess but I'm not going to win at one on one. Like I know that. But you can't know the level of skills if all you ever do is sit in the stands. If all you do, and you could know all the right words, you could know all the right terminology, you could sit there and know all the stats of the different players and sit in the stands, never get in a game and never actually do a thing. But you'd be convinced that you knew what was right. The difference between those who are successful and those who pretend are people who actually play the game. Who actually do the work and get involved. So today I need you to understand that Coach Bill is here to talk to you. If he upsets you, you can use your connection card to talk to Pastor Bill. And Pastor Bill will contact you tomorrow and follow up and hopefully make sure you come back to church. But today, Coach Bill did not come to catalyst to coach losers. I didn't. I did not come here to make you feel good about being a Christian and then let you leave the church and not actually get in the game and not actually make a difference. The kingdom of God is more than a scoreboard. It is an eternal life and death struggle. And in churches all across the world, you have people who go to church, who dress the right way, who carry the right stuff, who say the right words and never make a difference for the kingdom for years and years on end. I don't want that kind of Christianity. I hope that you don't either. If you get offended today, Pastor Bill will be there for you tomorrow. Alright, so the title of my sermon this morning is called Back to Basics. Today we're going to talk about prayer. Prayer is a fundamental element of the Christian life. As fundamental as dribbling and running to basketball. I can stand on the basketball court and I can hold the basketball and I can look like it. There's no way I'm ever going to play the game. So here's the key thought that's going to wrap all of these messages together. True success comes from getting better at the basics. True maturity seeks out and values and submits to correction along the way. So here's your first ouchie. How much do you enjoy being spiritually corrected? Don't raise your hand, just answer for yourself. When somebody you know who loves you goes, you really think that's the right play here? When somebody corrects you on a spiritual level, do you like it? Do you enjoy it? Are you thankful? Or do you get offended? I don't know too many people who like correction. The people I know who like correction are at the top of their game. Because what they've realized is when I surround myself with people who will correct me, I end up playing a better game. When I surround myself with people who are as concerned for my character as I am, my character is better. I'm more trustworthy. When I surround myself with people who know as much about theology as I do, I've got to be on my game when I talk to them because they're going to call me out if I say something stupid. So how much, if you're, let me say this way, if your level of spiritual maturity was completely gauged by your ability to enjoy spiritual correction, how mature are you right now? My guess is not as mature as you want everyone sitting near you to think. So how do we improve? Well, the first thing we're going to do today is talk about the skill, the fundamental of prayer. Here's your next ouchie. If prayer is not a part of your daily life, you are not a spiritually healthy Christian. If prayer is not a part of your daily life, I could have said hourly life. I could have said minute-ly life. But let's just go with daily, right? We all got work. We got students. We got jobs. We got family. We got other things. If you do not have time in a 24-hour period to speak to your Savior, you are not a healthy Christian. If I were to look at a husband and say, did you talk to your wife today? No. I was at work and then I had chores and I worked for my wife. But I didn't really talk to her. I haven't talked to her in like a week or so. I don't know. I'll talk to her on Sunday. That's when I'll see her next. Does that sound like a healthy husband? Does that sound like a healthy marriage? And why do we treat Jesus that way? We come to church one day a week. We're like, oh God, I love you so much and as well. And then Monday through Friday, I'm just so busy. I cannot seem to find time for Jesus. That's not spiritually healthy. You're wearing all the right gear but you're not actually doing the right thing. So how do we work on this spiritual aspect of prayer? If you brought your Bibles, turn with me to Matthew chapter 6. I want to go right to the source. I want to go to Jesus talking about prayer. Matthew chapter 6, I'm going to read verses 5 through 15. Then we're going to go back and we're going to break it down and we're going to get a simple basic outline for how to execute praying. Now I'm not a basketball player but Jesse, help me out here. There's probably a simple basic way to make a layup, correct? And you could, thank you. See, even your son's not because you trained him right, right? If I were to give this ball to your son and say, let's go outside and show me what a layup looks like. He doesn't have to think through all the steps. Well, first I got to dribble, then I got to run, then I got to approach the basket, then eventually the ball's got to go in the circle, right? He knows all of that. So I can tell him in one step, make a layup. That's what prayer is. Go execute prayer. But so often, Christians get confused about what is prayer. Well, he doesn't need to understand how to make a layup. I just said, go make a layup. And he understands all the pieces. Today we're going to break prayer down and I'm going to take the Lord's sample prayer that he gave for us and I'm going to turn it into a recipe for you and then you're going to do layups all week long. That's your job. Because my job is to help make you better, not just make you happy. If you came to church looking for encouragement, that was last week. All right, so let's take a look. Hopefully you're there. You could turn or tap. Matthew chapter 6. I'm going to start reading in verse 5. Jesus says this, and when you pray, don't be like the hypocrites for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by others. Truly, I tell you, they have received their reward in full. But when you pray, go into your room, close the door and pray to your father who is unseen. Then your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. And when you pray, do not keep babbling like pagans. They think they will be heard because of their many words. Do not be like them for your father knows what you need before you ask him. This then is how you should pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily bread and forgive our debts as we have also forgiven our debtors. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For if you forgive other people when they sin against you, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their sins, your Father will not forgive your sins. So now, let's go back to the top here. Here's the first thing I want you to see. Number one, Jesus is telling you there are wrong ways to pray. So if you're going to get offended at that one, let's just get offended at Jesus off the bat. There are wrong ways to pray. You do not get to choose the right way to pray. God chooses that. Prayer is not an open option for you to do whatever you want. Even though it is your communication with God, Jesus is opening with in verse 5, and when you pray, do not do this. That means Jesus is saying there are wrong ways to pray. Just like there's probably wrong ways to make a layup. There's wrong ways to dribble the ball in basketball. There are wrong ways to pray. And Jesus tells us very clearly, here's the first one. Don't pray like a hypocrite. Well, that seems kind of obvious, but let's just take Jesus where he's at. And do not pray like the hypocrites. And then he defines who the hypocrites are. For they love to pray, standing in the synagogues and on the street corners, to be seen by others. Hypocritical prayer is prayer that values who's watching you pray more than who you're praying to. Let me give you an example. If the only time I told my wife how much I love her is when I'm in front of other people, do you think she feels loved? Right? If the only time I tell my wife how much she matters to me is when other people can see me as a loving husband, am I telling my wife I love you for the value of this relationship or am I telling my wife I love you because I want all of you to see me a certain way? See, when I'm at home with my wife alone and it's just the 2 of us and I tell her then, I love you, that matters to her. If the only time I said those words is when I was witnessed by the church and all I needed you to know was I need you to look at me like I'm a loving husband, am I really a loving husband? No. Same thing with prayer. If the only time you pray is when other people are watching, you better really quick give yourself a check. Am I praying to God because of my relationship with him or do I need everyone else to see me look like a good Christian? I mean, Jesus is not pulling a punch. He's hitting it flat on the jaw. Your prayer time should be for you and God in the same way that the relationship with my wife is built with just me and her. Yes, it may involve other people. We might go out on a double date. We might go get some sushi and have a great time. But if the only time I took my wife out on a date is when church people needed to meet with me, do you know how quickly my marriage would be sour? Why do we treat God that way? If the only time you worship God is on Sundays, are you worshiping God or are you worshiping other people's opinion of you? You want them to think you worship God. I mean, this one cuts deep and it cuts deep quick. You cannot pray hypocritically and be a healthy Christian. So he says then he goes to verse 6, when you pray, go in your room, close the door. This is just you and God. by yourself. Because then you're not distracted by the pride of being seen by other people. I've seen pastors. I've worked with pastors who pray much more eloquently when they're in front of the church than just like in prayer at the office. When it's just us staff people. We're just praying over something. We're praying with leaders, right? But then you get in front of the church and all of a sudden you put the church garb on and you turn it on and you sound way better and you use the bigger words. I'm like, come on man. How about you just talk to God the way you talk to God by yourself. Be authentic. Be real. So Jesus says when you pray. Notice that? He said it in verse 5 and in verse 6 and in verse 7 when you pray. Not oh by the way if you get around to it. How healthy do you think your marriage would be if you just got around to talking to your wife maybe? Oh man, I haven't talked to her since Thanksgiving. I should check in and see how she's doing. I know that sounds funny to talk about my wife but when was the last time you had private prayer with God? Again, Coach Bill don't care about your feelings today. I need you to get hurt enough to change. I need to wear you out enough on the court so you actually think about getting better. When was the last? And here's the other thing. So many times we will be fervent in prayer when things are bad, right? Oh Lord, I'm in a trial. Jesus, help me. I need your strength. And then he gets you through it. He carries you through it. Things are good and you forget. Oh man, life is so good. I am so good right now. Man, I did that. Man, do you see all the stuff I've been through? I am so confident in who I am. I survived that. When you were over here and you were like Jesus if you don't part this red sea I'm going to have a major problem. And then you get blessed and you forget about the God who brought you through. All the time. I struggle to say it's human nature because on the inside we are selfish human creatures. Let's just be honest, right? We're all, sin boils down to selfishness. All the way back to the garden. I want to define good and evil for myself instead of letting God define it for me. That's what the entire tree can boil down to. God said find your moral values in me. And Satan said, but you'll be like God if you do this. You can make your own decisions. And see how well that turned out? Then you get to verse 7. So verse 6 God says, go to your Father who is unseen. Make prayer a personal communication between you and God. Notice that the solution for prideful prayer is solitude. Right? If you are distracted when you pray around others, you eventually have got to get strength enough. Because here's the thing. What's our main job as Christians? You ever think about this? What's your number one main job? Glorify God. What's the number 2 part of that job? Help someone else come to Christ and glorify God. I'm a Christian and I don't like praying out loud. You know what that tells me? If you don't like praying out loud, you've never discipled someone and taught them how to pray. Because you can't teach somebody how to pray. They can't read your mind. Right? I can't sit next to Catherine while she's praying fervently in her mind and be able to agree and go, oh amen. That was good. Right? I'm not telepathic. If you are not strong enough to pray out loud, then you'd have never discipled someone through prayer. That's what that tells me. You've not grown your skills. You've not grown your maturity and grown your strength to where you can actually do the job of a Christian which is making more Christians. That's why we started with the fundamental of prayer. It's the most basic fundamental spiritual habit. And we're going to build over the next 6 weeks. I'm going to wear you out and we're going to do drill after drill after drill. And I promise you, if you will hang with me for 6 weeks, 6 weeks from now, you will be a much more spiritually healthy Christian. If you just listen to my sermon and go, wow, that was fun, that was entertaining, and you continue to do things your own way, then you will continue to sit on the stands and be a hypocrite. Because you come to church and you want everyone to believe that we're all mature Christians. We're not. We're all at different stages of maturity. Right? We're all being grown. So then you get to verse 6 when you pray, close the door, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. There's your solution, prideful prayer of solitude. Verses 7 and 8, when you pray. Did you notice that? Again, he's repeated it 3 times. There is an expectation for you to have prayer in your life. Just as much as there's an expectation that a basketball player knows how to dribble the ball. If you cannot bounce the ball, you are not a successful basketball player. If you do not have a successful habit of prayer, you are not a healthy Christian. Don't get it wrong. Just like the basketball player doesn't get to change the rules, you don't get to change the rules to make yourself feel better about how you live your Christian life. That's not your... Again, that's not your job. Jesus said that. When you pray, don't do this. Also, verses 7 and 8, when you pray, don't keep on babbling like pagans for they think they will be heard because of their many words. Now remember, Jesus is living in first century Rome. He's living in an occupied territory. And he's living in a time where polytheism and paganism is rampant. I have been blessed to grow up in a country that primarily is founded and pointed towards Judeo-Christian values. Jesus was not. Jesus was born in one of the most brutal empires where they were just as pagan and wicked as they were polytheistic. So there was all kinds of thoughts out there about what is and is not acceptable prayer. And the pagans who lived in the Roman Empire at this time... If you want another example, let's go back to Old Testament, Elijah on Mount Carmel. Right? Anybody remember that story? So the prophet Elijah believes that he's the only godly man left in all of the nation. And he calls a showdown. And they go up to the top of Mount Carmel and you've got the pagan priests worshiping Baal and you've got Elijah worshiping Jesus or worshiping God. And they both build altars, right? And then, I love Elijah, he starts trash talking. If you haven't read the story, go back and read it. It's hilarious. At one point, the pagan priests, they're getting themselves all worked up because what they believed was if they were emotional enough that that would make God show up. That they're pagan god, right? They're using their emotions and their feelings as a determiner of truth. And so they're getting themselves all worked up. They're cutting themselves, they're bleeding on this altar, all to try and entreat this pagan god who's really a false god to show up and show that he's more powerful than the one true Lord God. And Elijah's standing over here and he's like, I don't think you all are loud enough yet. Maybe your god's on the potty, you should yell louder. That's literally what he said. He said, maybe your god's taking a potty break. You know, you guys want to take five and come back at it later? I mean, great amount of trash talk. And then, when it's Elijah's turn, he's like, no, I think we should pour water all over the altar first just to make sure you understand who the real God is. They pour water over it, fills the trench, God shows up and does what God does and shows that he is the one true God. It took a lot of faith for Elijah to stand there, but what he didn't do was babble like all of those other pagan priests. He just simply said, God, show your glory, I'm going to get out the way. And boom. One of the hardest things, I think, at least I'll talk about my own personal experience. One of the hardest things for me is I like to talk a lot. So I talk a lot in my prayer. Just me, my favorite prayer time is me in the truck when no one else is there. Jesus is just sitting next to me and I'm just talking. And I'm sure if you drive by me, it probably looks like I'm talking on the phone or maybe I'm Bluetooth. No, God and I are just talking about whatever. I mean, I'll talk about the semi truck that's going by. Like, at some point, I wonder if God just tunes me out because he's wondering, like, are you going to say something point full? So when I get to this verse, I am personally challenged. I am personally corrected going, hmm, am I just babbling because I think? So here's the difference. When Jesus says, don't babble, he gives a very specific reason. Look at verses seven and eight. Don't babble like the pagans because or for they think they will be heard because of their many words. I don't think Jesus listens to me because I babble. I think I babble because I like talking to my father. I remember when my son was very young, young enough that I could still hold him and he would go to sleep. And sometimes he'd just be talking to me and he'd pass out. And that warmed my heart as a father. I love listening to my children babble in their sleep. It's super adorable. Sometimes I wonder if that's how God feels about me. I'm just ADHD enough to be distracted all the time. But see, I've given over the idea that my prayers are more effective because I use big words, right? My prayers are not more effective because I know more theological terms. My prayers are not more effective because I can say in 13 words what Dan can say in 5. That doesn't make my prayer better. What truly makes, just think about it this way. Go back, just think about the marriage relationship. I don't need 500 words to communicate effectively with my wife. Why? Because our relationship is built to the point that she knows what I'm saying even when I don't know how to say it. That's where we should be in our relationship with God, but we're not. We're cultivated a culture where prayer is more of an outside thing than an inside thing. Here's the second thing I need you to understand. As we cross now, we're going down to verse 9. Jesus left us a model to follow, not a mantra to repeat. So this one's going to sting a little bit. If anybody ever grew up repeating the Lord's Prayer, right? And we all memorized it. We memorized it all in the right translation so we can all say it together. Here's what I need you to understand. Jesus did not give you the Lord's Prayer to repeat it. Let me say that again. Jesus did not give you the Lord's Prayer. In fact, it's not even the Lord's Prayer. The disciples said, Jesus, teach us how to pray. And Jesus said, here, pray like this. It's actually the disciples prayer. But the Lord's Prayer is not this magical Christian mantra that if we just repeat it enough, God's glory is going to come down. The Lord's Prayer is an outline. It's a model for you to model your own prayer after. Repeating the Lord's Prayer does not have any more spiritual power than saying your own prayer. In fact, I would almost say that if you just wrote repeating words that you've memorized, but they don't actually mean anything to you, then repeating the Lord's Prayer like a mantra is actually less effective than praying your own personal thoughts to God. So how do I break this down and help you see? Now, if you have the handout that the ushers gave you on the way in, look at the back of it. It's got a couple fill-ins for you. This is where your homework is going to be. So I need you to follow. If you're online, obviously you don't have the handout. Get a piece of paper. Write this down because this is going to be your layups all week long. First thing I want you to understand, you notice there it says, prayer begins with verbal worship. Prayer should always begin with verbal worship. Look at verse 9. This is then how you should pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Now that's a super way of saying, God, you're holy and I'm not. God, you are great and I am lesser. Your ways are greater than my ways. Every time you begin a conversation with God, begin in an attitude of worship. Last week we talked about what holy means, right? It means to be set apart. Be set apart for God's presence, to be set apart for God's purpose. You begin your prayers with verbal worship, reminding both yourself and declaring to God His greatness and your smallness. I think all too often we get distracted in thinking that prayer is about us, right? I feel so good when I pray. Okay, I don't care. That wasn't the point. The point was for you to worship God because of how great He is. And I see this a lot, especially in certain circles of worship and worship leading and having been a worship leader and being around a lot of worship leaders. There are some people that determine whether worship is good by how it makes them feel. But you're not the object of worship. So I personally don't care how you feel about worship. Worship is about Him. Worship should be glorifying Him. If your heart or your feelings are the determiner of whether you worshiped good or not, you're actually worshiping yourself. You're not worshiping God. You're worshiping how you feel. You're worshiping humanism. It's paganism in its root. Yes, I actually just said that in case you missed it. If you're worshiping God to see how it makes you feel, you are more pagan than Christian. If you are worshiping Him because He is worthy of worship whether you feel good or not, right? And those people who are on the worship team, you know some Sundays you come to church, bro, I just don't have it in the tank. I'm tired. My voice hurts. I didn't sleep well the night before. I've had cramps in my hands trying to play guitar. I've had my foot go to sleep trying to play piano. But you know what? It doesn't matter because it's not about me. It's about Him. He is worthy of my 110% whether I have it to give or not because of His glory, because of His greatness. When you start your prayers in a true attitude of worship, now you're standing on real foundation. Now you're standing on real power. On that, here's point two. Prayer prioritizes God's kingdom and His will. Prayer prioritizes God's kingdom and His will. Look at verse 9. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. A lot of people just skip over this sentence because they think it's just like a flourish. I don't think it's a flourish. This is Jesus trying to teach us how to pray. Is God's kingdom more important than my agenda? That was a rhetorical question. Really think about it. Is God's kingdom more important than what I want? Absolutely. But how many times are your prayers filled with what you want instead of stopping to ask what He wants? Right? If you serve, if you serve a king, then you've got to own the fact that the king is more important than you. That means His will is more important. That means His agenda is more important. That means His kingdom is more important. Yes, I am a servant in the most eternal kingdom ever, but I'm still just a servant. He's the king, not me. Once you begin your prayer in an attitude of worship and you glorify God for how great He is, the next thing you do is remind yourself that there is a kingdom greater than you. Your kingdom come. I'm going to go back to the first century Jews. They were literally waiting for the restoration of the actual Jewish kingdom. Saul, David, Solomon, that guys. They are waiting for the, in fact, they are still waiting. The Old Testament expectation is that the Messiah will come back and restore the throne of David. When we get to October, we'll go through Revelation. I'll explain it. We'll do another Q&A series. It'll be a lot of fun. And so gear up your Revelation questions for October. I'll be ready. That there's a real king on a real throne coming back for a very real Jerusalem. I really hope and pray if Jesus comes back in our earthly lifetime that you're not a poser pretending to serve King Jesus, but you really just run your own empire. If His kingship does not invade your decision making, He's not your king. Like again, Coach Bill doesn't need to care how you feel. Pastor Bill will make you feel better tomorrow. But if you say that Jesus is king and He doesn't get a right to help make decisions in your life, then you're lying to yourself. You are still sitting on the throne of your life and you want everyone to believe that Jesus is king. He's my king, but He might not be yours. That's the whole difference between seeing Jesus as Savior and seeing Him truly as Lord and King. The second thing Jesus does after showing us that we are to worship God is reminding us that His kingdom and His will is more important than my empire and my choices. My empire and my choices must submit to Him. And notice He says here, on earth as it is in heaven. Is there anything in heaven that doesn't follow the will of God? Now one of you is probably thinking, what about the angelic revolt? Somebody's thinking it, right? Because I would. That's the first thing I would. I'm always the argumentative guy. I'd be like, wait a minute, pastor, didn't the angels have free will? Didn't they rebel against God? Yeah, they did. That did not work out well for them. They're not in heaven anymore. There is nothing in God's presence that does not kneel to His sovereignty. What about your life? You want God's presence in your life, how well do you do in obeying His sovereignty? You want to feel the Holy Spirit moving in your life, how well do you do in obeying His directives? Or do you really just want, I mean, let's just be honest. Sometimes don't we just want God to bless what we want? God, I'm going this way. Bless me while I go. The problem is you didn't stop to ask God if He wanted you to go this way. The overarching lesson that I read from the Old Testament is God blessed His children when they followed His plan. And when they got outside of His plan, God cursed His children to try to move them back to His plan. That's the entire Abrahamic covenant. I will bless those who bless you. I will curse those who curse you. I'm going to give you this land, but Lord help me. If you don't live by my rules, I'm going to kick you out. And when you get to the back half of the Old Testament, that's what the entire exilic period is about. God literally had to pull His own people out of His own promised land because they could not follow the rules. If you are not living blessed by God, I got to ask the question. Are you living for God or are you just living for yourself, hoping that God's going to bless you? That's like being someone like me, stepping out on the court with someone like Steph Curry, believing that I have any chance in the world of winning. I couldn't beat Jesse in one on one basketball, let alone an NBA player. Why do you think that you can live a life centered on you and then when you really need God to come through, but God I need you to bless me? No, the overarching lesson of the Old Testament is God's blessings are muted through our obedience to His kingdom. That's why prioritizing His kingdom and will is the number 2 thing we do in prayer. Then we go down. Number 3. Prayer seeks God's leadership, provision and protection. Look at this, 11-13. Give us today our daily bread, forgive us our debts as we also forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. Now I think a lot has been made of that second sentence. Let me take the first one first. Give us today our daily bread. What Old Testament story is Jesus figuring in that sentence? The manna, thank you. The manna was delivered how many times a week? That's it? No, 6. He was delivered 6 days a week because they weren't allowed to collect on the Sabbath day. God supernaturally provided 5 days a week and on the 6th day He provided double dose so that they had enough to over last the Sabbath. It's probably the most under taught reality from the Old Testament. That 6th day double dose, God supernaturally provides and then He doubles down. Why? So they would obey the Sabbath. The supernatural provision the day before the Sabbath was to help them obey His laws. He's provided for them every day, double dose the day before the Sabbath and made sure they understood you can't keep it one more night than you're supposed to. I'm going to hold you right here in my hand. I'm going to carry you, but you've got to stay with me. When He says give us our daily bread for any first century Jew, they knew exactly what He was talking about. God can supernaturally provide, but He's not going to supernaturally provide for 10 years. He's going to supernaturally provide for today and when it's time for you to be obedient, He'll provide for tomorrow. Give us and then He says forgive our debts as we also forgive our debtors. Now there are several different analogies theologically for sin in the Bible. One of them is obviously the archery term, missing the mark. One of them is the debt or the penalty for a transgression. If I commit a crime, if I steal something, if I commit a crime against our U.S. law system, there is a penalty that I have to pay. If you get a speeding ticket, it comes with a fine. That fine is the repercussions for the transgression. That's the kind of debt Jesus is referring to here. Now we are incapable of paying the fine for our transgressions against a holy God because our transgressions against Him are greater than we can pay. But we are absolutely capable of forgiving those who transgress against us personally. So there's really two different debts here. One is the human debt towards God. The other is the human debt towards another human. Have you ever given thought to the fact that if you accept God's forgiveness of the debt that you owe Him, you are no longer justified in not forgiving people when they wrong you? There's a whole parable about that that I can't unpack today because it would be way too long. He says, Forgive us our debts, meaning the debts we owe to God, as we forgive our debtors, meaning the debts that others owe to us. When someone wrongs you, when someone hurts you, forgiveness as a Christian, forgiveness is your only choice. Now forgiveness does not mean absolution of consequence and forgiveness does not automatically require restoration of relationship. I don't have the time to unpack all of forgiveness. But please hear those two things. Forgiveness does not mean forgetfulness. Because if that were the case, the Bible says that God records every action of our life and we answer for it on Judgment Day. It doesn't say He ever stops writing it down just because I came to Jesus. Right? Come on now. Let's have a Scooby Doo moment here. Everything in my life is recorded and I will answer for it when I stand before my Heavenly Father, the Holy Judge. And I'm going to be guilty for everything I do from now to the time that He calls me home. The only reason I won't owe the debt for that guilt is because Jesus stands in and says, Father, this one belongs to me. I paid it. We're good. It doesn't mean that I am excused of the earthly consequences of my sin. I'm only excused of the heavenly consequences. If I commit an egregious sin, I lose my job. And you would be right to do so. I would require you to do so or you're not really my friends. The earthly consequences for my sin are mine to bear. The heavenly consequences, Jesus forgave. So if you have a forgiveness issue, if you're struggling to forgive somebody, when I get to the end of the sermon, put that on your connect card, I'd be happy to talk you through what Biblical forgiveness really looks like. It is not forgetfulness. The short answer is Biblically forgiving someone is no longer prosecuting the transgression, not forgetting the wrong. Right? It's no longer prosecuting a transgression. So that was the mini sermon back here. Verse 13. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Now we're into a shepherding aspect. God led His children. Remember, we're still thinking man and we're still think the Deuteronomy period. God led His children with a pillar of fire at night, a pillar of smoke during the day. Does God ever lead towards sin? No, never. It is outside of His character. God cannot lead towards sin because then He would be the actual manufacturer of sin in our life. And it says here, lead us not into temptation. The operative verb in the sentence is lead, not tempt. Notice temptation is referred to as a thing. Lead is the verb. You will never be led towards temptation by God. Ever. It's outside of His character. But if you focus more on temptation than where God's trying to lead you, you might walk right into it. Because you're looking at the wrong part of the sentence. Jesus said, and lead us. Lead me where you need me to go. Because I trust wherever you're going to lead me, no matter how scary it may look, no matter how challenging it is, no matter how hurting it is in the moment, Lord I trust that you can see beyond the hills that I can't see beyond. And I'm going to trust you because that right there is scary. And if I have to walk by the scary, it's because I'm walking with the shepherd. If you get distracted and walk over to the icky, that's on you. God didn't lead you there. I know tons of people say, well if God didn't want me to sin, He would take it out of my life. If I didn't want to sin, stop. Don't put an if on it. Don't put an if and say, well if God didn't want me to do this, He wouldn't put it there. No, He still doesn't want you to do it. Shut up and not do it. Coach Bill doesn't care. And he says, deliver us from the evil one. If you think about a shepherd leading his sheep, the wolves are still real. Whose job is it to fend off the wolf? The sheep or the shepherd? The shepherd. It's not your job to beat the wolf. The shepherd has already done that. It's your job to be so close to the shepherd that the wolf fears to come near you. That's lead us not into temptation. If you're close enough to the shepherd that his staff can knock the wolf on the head, you won't be tempted to leave the shepherd's presence. Because his protection is his provision. But all of that is contingent on the verb lead. If you're the leader of your life, then you're the sheep walking this way hoping the shepherd comes to protect you. If Jesus is the leader of your life, you're, Lord, I go where you go. I stay where you stay. We do this together. And I promise you, if you were close enough to the shepherd that his stick could reach out over your head, you would never be threatened by the wolf. The problem is, most people don't want to give up the control of their life to the shepherd. But Lord, that grass over there looks super yummy, doesn't it? I mean, it's all green and lush. And I bet you it tastes so good. Yeah, okay, so we got to walk through a valley to get there. But you'll be with me, right? Yeah, let's do this. You never stopped to ask the shepherd if that was the grass he wanted you to eat. You just said, oh, I want that. So Jesus must want me to have it. No. Jesus wants you to want him. And if you were to follow him, you might realize that that lush grass is actually weeds. There's no nutritional value to it. You just see and look and you don't know the difference. And so you start eating the weeds thinking it's good for you and you're ingesting your poison all over again. Because you didn't stop to ask the shepherd, lead me and I'll follow. Here's the fourth thing. Prayer reminds us of our responsibility to reflect the love and forgiveness of God. This is your fourth filling here. Prayer reminds us of the responsibility to reflect the love and forgiveness of God. Verses 14 and 15. If you forgive other people when they sin against you, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their sins, your heavenly father will not forgive your sins. There is a lot has been made out of this verse. Keep in mind, when you come across a Bible verse that seems challenging to understand, the first thing you need to do is see what else scripture says about that topic and use scripture to interpret scripture. Do not use your opinions to interpret scripture. You are not the author of scripture. You didn't write the book. The Holy Spirit wrote the book. So that means the Holy Spirit is the only true authority to interpret that which the scripture says. Now here's what's great about being a Christian. Post-Pentecost, when you come to Jesus, you're filled with the Holy Spirit. That means you should be filled with the author of the Bible. The same spirit that lives in me inspired the pages. So let's take this verse and let's tackle it head on. If you forgive others when they sin against you, your heavenly father will also forgive you. We're talking about two different levels of forgiveness, right? Our debt towards God, other humans' debts towards us. How is our debt towards God paid? Can our physical human actions ever pay this up here debt? No they cannot. That's the purpose of the gospel. So that cannot be the appropriate interpretation of this verse because if you are trusting in God to forgive you of your sins based on your actions, that does not match the rest of scripture. So that cannot be the correct interpretation. If you forgive others when they sin against you, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their sins, your father will not forgive your sins. My forgiveness from God is not based on my actions towards you. It can't be because that's not the gospel message. So what is Jesus saying? Let me flip it this way. If you have truly been forgiven by God, you are responsible to forgive others. If you struggle to forgive others, maybe you are not as forgiven as you think. Maybe you haven't truly experienced the grace of God's forgiveness because when you have, forgiving others isn't a challenge. I am horrible in the eyes of my father. I am constantly sinning. I am constantly stepping outside of his will. I am constantly going towards the grass that I want and then forgetting that Jesus, I am doing it all the time. The only reason that I stay in his grace is because of his grace. Because I have experienced that. I am on the hook to forgive others. Why? Because think about what is the ultimate mission of the church. It's my job to draw others to Christ. It's my job to show what unmerited forgiveness looks like. I do not believe that you should read that verse and hinge your forgiveness from God on whether you forgive other human beings. Because that doesn't match the rest of what scripture says about justification and sanctification. If you have questions, listen. Connect card, we'll go to lunch, we'll get some burgers and shakes and we'll talk the whole thing down. If the gospel is true and I am justified by the blood of Christ and Christ alone, I can't also be justified by my own actions. You cannot have both. They are two mutually exclusive claims. Logic says one is true and one is false. I think scripture is very clear that our forgiveness to God is due to Jesus, not my own actions. But now if I bring down to the human scale, when you wrong me, I'm the one responsible for forgiveness because now it's been me who's been wronged. When someone hurts me, I am the party responsible to offer forgiveness. If you struggle to forgive those who hurt you, I've got to ask if you are actually struggling to be forgiven by God. And I don't mean that to be hurtful. I mean it to be very, very honest. Do you struggle with the concept of God's forgiveness in your life? Because if that's a no, if you truly accept how rotten you are and how much God loves you, I don't understand how you can justify not forgiving anyone else for anything they do to you because my sin to God is way worse than anything anyone's ever done to me. And trust me, I've been hurt. Listen, I've been 20 years in ministry. Churches suck. They're hurtful. They're mean. They wear... There are tons of pastors who get out of ministry because church people are hard. Have you ever heard the phrase, sheet bite? Trust me, they got razor sharp fangs when they want to. And anybody who's experienced hurt in church, trust me, we've been there. Sheep bite. They hurt. Human beings are mean and hurtful and sinful. Our job is to represent a love that will forgive no matter what. No matter what you do to me, I will forgive. That does not mean there may not be earthly consequences. I'm going to let you borrow my car. You steal my car and wreck it, I'm not letting you borrow my car again. That doesn't mean we might not still be friends, but there's no way I'm giving you the chance to hurt me the same way again. That's me not prosecuting the wrong, but there are earthly consequences. This is something very hard because people tend to drift to one of two ways. Either A, you are required to forget every single wrong that anyone's ever done to you. That doesn't track for me because God is still recording my wrongs all the way to judgment day. So the idea that I should require you to forget wrongs doesn't make sense. I should however require you to do exactly what Jesus has done for you. I need you to know that someone wronged you and I need you to represent the kind of love that forgives. Not that resolves consequences, but that truly forgives in your heart. And if you are struggling today to forgive someone who's wronged you, I really need you to dig deep and ask, are you also struggling to receive God's forgiveness? Are you fully on board with he's forgiven you of every single thing you've done wrong? Because I got to ask you, why are you giving yourself the right not to forgive somebody else? Our job is to represent the love of God. So now how do I bring this all to a close? Here's your takeaway. God expects us to pray humbly, not pridefully. We should glorify his name, prioritize his kingdom, seek his leadership and reflect his love. This is a basic part of the Christian faith that we never outgrow. Steph Curry still has a shooting coach. You never outgrow working the basics. If you think you have reached a level of spiritual maturity where prayer is no longer important, please allow me to tell you that you are pridefully and arrogantly wrong. The more mature you get, the more you will value spiritual correction. So here's your homework. I told you each week during this series, you're going to have to go home and you're going to have to do some drills. I want you to take the four piece model that I gave you there. I want you to take this four piece prayer model. Number one, prayer begins with verbal worship. Number two, prayer prioritizes God's kingdom and will. Prayer seeks God's leadership and in his leadership, we experience his provision and his protection. And finally, four, prayer reminds us of our responsibility to others. I want you to take that basic four piece recipe and I want you to pray through that model every single day at least once or twice a day until Coach Bill sees you again. That's your practice. I promise you if you will start prioritizing just the first two, worship and God's kingdom, you're going to find so many other things to pray about. God's going to put things on your heart. Why? Because now your heart is beating in line with his. So often when we go to prayer, we only pray about what I want and what I need and Lord bless me. No, start with Lord, you've already blessed me which is why I worship you. You've already blessed me which is why I follow you. Your kingdom is coming which is why I seek you. If you will flip the script, so this is what I want. You have to go practice your layups every single day. I want you to email me. I want you to text me. If you don't have my email address, go to the church website. You can find it. It's pastorbillatcatalyst302.com. I want to hear how your layups are doing because if you're struggling on Tuesday, I want to correct you on Tuesday so your shot gets better on Wednesday. I don't want you to just fake it because listen, you can come to church next week dressed, looking great and still not be able to make a layup. And as long as you sit on the bench, nobody knows the difference. I need you to get up off the bench and get in the game because there's a community out here who needs to hear about Jesus and I'm not enough. I could talk till I'm blue in the face. I'm not enough to do what the kingdom wants done in our community. It's going to take all of you getting off the stands, getting in the game and getting better at your basic fundamentals. So that's your homework. So do me a favor. I want you to either pull out your cell phone or the connect card that's right there in the chair back in front of you. If you want to use the digital version, you can take your phone and scan the QR code that was right on the front of the bulletin that our ushers handed you. This is your turn, this is your time to respond to what Coach Bill has said. Remember, you can complain but Coach Bill doesn't care. Tomorrow, Pastor Bill will care if I hurt your feelings. Today, I just want to get you off your butt. I want to shake you out of church as usual. How? This is what I want you to commit to. What time are you going to do your layups every week? Are you going to practice prayer in the morning? Maybe you have to be out super early in the morning. Maybe you're going to practice prayer in the evenings. Are you going to practice prayer with your wife? Are you going to practice prayer with your kids? Are you going to take this model and start teaching your children how to effectively pray now so when they get to your age, they're already pro level prayers? Or are you going to let them figure it out then like you're having to now? How will you do your drills this week? That's what I want to hear from you on your connect card. Just tell me, yeah, I came to church. Thanks, coach. Good job. If you do that, you'll come to church next week and you'll still be a loser. I want you to be a winner. I want you to experience a new level of God's presence in your prayer life. And that will only happen if you put in the work. If you don't put in the work, you don't get better. And I hope that you want to get better. I hope that you want a vibrant and successful relationship with Jesus. If you are watching this online, listen, Coach Bill don't care about you either. You still have to go to the website, catalyst302.com slash connect. You still have to commit to do something. Because though you might not be here in the room, I still don't want you to wake up tomorrow and be a loser. I still want you to have success in your relationship with God. And that means starting to value correction. So I'm going to go ahead and ask the worship team and the ushers if they will come on up. In a minute, we're going to collect. Actually, no, wait. Worship team, you just stand by. I'm going to call an audible and I'm going to cancel that song because I got other things to do. Here's what we're going to do. Ushers, I'm going to ask that we collect our connection cards. Those of you who are using the physical connect cards, you can put them in these baskets along with this morning's tithes and offerings. Those who are using the digital connect card, you fill it right down on your phone. It'll go to my inbox and that will be able to answer you tomorrow when I grab the laptop and I start working. This is my promise to you. Just like if you were to go to Jesse's basketball practice. The first couple of practices, it's going to feel like you're doing the basics. Things you should already be grown past. But if you will hammer down on the basics, I promise you will get better in your spiritual life. I give you my word if you'll just work the fundamentals. Six weeks from now, you will be at a level in your faith that you've not been in for a while. But it takes you doing the work.