Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being a part of our service today. Whether you are here joining us in the sanctuary, whether you are watching us online in real time or after the fact, thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family. Now here at Catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change in Christ. That is our goal. That is our purpose and I would submit to you that one of the ways in which we transform our lives week by week to be more like Jesus is by studying his word together. And so we're gonna do that this morning. The intro video show you we're in a series entitled Better and we've been working through a definition of what it means to be a disciple. So I'm gonna ask all of you who are here in the sanctuary you should have gotten one of these handouts when you walked in. If you look on the very back of it underneath of the title it says sermon better how to worship the key thought. I'm gonna read it to you and then I want us to read it together because this key thought is what links all of these or this series of messages together. The key thought, a disciple is called to be a holy, faithful, servant who worships God alone and is active in his community. So let's read that together. A disciple is called to be a holy, faithful, servant who worships God alone and is active in his community. Now we've looked at holy, we looked at faithful, last week we looked at servant. This week we are going to look at what does it mean to worship God alone and in order to do that we first need to define what is worship. And in a lot of different churches I know that word can take on a lot of different connotations. I'm not asking how do we worship. What I'm saying is what is worship. So here is the definition that I think encompasses the biblical value of worship. Worship is an intentional action which attributes worthiness to your God. And I've worded that that way on purpose. So worship is an intentional action which attributes worthiness to your God. And there's a couple pieces in this definition that are important. The first is that worship is an intentional action. I know in our 2024 church live streaming culture worship is music, right? We think about we call it the worship ministry. We have a job position or leadership position called the worship leader. And so we often think that worship is only music. But biblically that's just not the case. There are plenty of things that are worship. Giving of an offering is worship. In the Old Testament giving of a sacrifice is worship. And so I want you to understand that worship involves an intentional action on our part. You cannot sit in a chair and do nothing and have it be worship unless sitting in that chair is somehow the intentional action that involves worship. Second, worship involves worth or value expressed through the action. So given the worship team just finished leading us in singing to God, the intentional action is us singing as a community. But the worship or the value that our singing accomplishes is giving value to God. Now the same would be true of Old Testament offering of sacrifices. The same would be true in the New Testament that there's an intentional action which is attributing worth or value. And then finally that worth or value is put onto an object. And that object is the God that is the object of the worth of the worth giving action. And the reason I put your God is there's plenty examples in the Bible of peace of people worshiping false gods. So in order to truly understand worship we have to look at both the good side of it and we have to look at the bad side of it. You can do an intentional action and attribute worthiness to something. So the first is, this comes from the book of Psalms chapter 95 verse 67, the first is to bow down. So worship is to bow down. Here is Psalm 95 verse 67, come let us bow down in worship. Let's kneel before the Lord our maker for he is our God and we are the people of his pasture, the flock under his care. Today if only you could hear his voice. Now here in Psalm 95, you saw this is using the imagery of bowing down. You just, what are you doing when you bow down? You make yourself lesser than that which you are bowing down to. So I intentionally, here's an intentional action, I intentionally make myself lesser than. The making of myself lesser than is the attributing worthiness to and what's the object? Well the object is what I'm bowing down to here in 95. He's saying let us bow down in worship. Let us kneel before the Lord. Those of you who read it, you saw that it was all in capital letters. That means the covenant name for God. That's your English way of saying that's Yahweh, not any of the other Old Testament words for God. So in Psalm 95,6, come let us bow down. There's your intentional action. In worship, let us kneel before the Lord, that's the object. And then in me making myself lesser than him, I am raising him up. Does that make sense? Alright, so that's bow down. Now interestingly, in the rest of the book, the in the rest of the Old Testament, this bowing down can be applied to God as it just was there in Psalm 95. However, it can also be applied to people. So you can bow down before, let's say, a royal official. So in 2 Chronicles chapter 7 verses 2 and 3, Israel as a nation bows down before God. And here's the way it reads, 2 Chronicles 7, this is verses 2 and 3. The priests could not enter the temple of the Lord Yahweh because the glory of the Lord Yahweh had filled it. When all the Israelites saw fire coming down and the glory of the Lord above the temple, they knelt on the pavement with their faces to the ground. And they worshiped and gave thanks to the Lord saying, He is good, His love endures forever. This is the entire nation of Israel taking a knee. The entire nation making themselves lesser than, that's the intentional action, for the purpose of attributing worthiness to the God who had filled the temple. However, if you fast forward to the book of Esther, here's an example, same exact word, but now this is used of one human bowing down to another human. Esther chapter 3 verse 2, after these events, King Xerxes honored Haman, the son of Hamadatha, the agate, elevating him and giving him a seat of honor higher than all the other nobles. Here's chapter 3 verse 2, all the royal officials at the king's gate knelt down and paid honor to Haman for the king had commanded this concerning him, but Mordecai would not kneel down or pay him honor. Same exact Hebrew word for worship, to bow down, but here the object of, who is everyone bowing down to in Esther chapter 3 verse 2? They're bowing down to Haman, he is the object. And what is the purpose of bowing down to Haman? Because the king, King Xerxes, has elevated Haman's position in the Persian government and everyone is trying to show their allegiance or their homage to him and so everybody's taking a knee, literally making themselves lower than Haman. And Mordecai just refuses to do that because if you read the entire book, Esther, Mordecai knows that he's not allowed to worship anything other than God. And so I just wanted to show you that sometimes these words, they're not always just directed at God. Sometimes we do bow down to people. Sometimes we bow down to ideas. Sometimes we bow down to culture or to worldviews or all these other things. And so in this instance, I thought it was really cool to see that. The second way that worship is portrayed in the scriptures is with praise. So now we look at Psalm 22 verse 22. I will declare your name to my people in the assembly I will praise you. That seems pretty simple. The word praise here means the verbal celebration of God or a person for their attributes, actions or positions. Now, this word praise is also used of other things other than just God. So just so in Psalm 22, 22, obviously the psalmist is worshipping the one true God. But if you were to look over in Judges, Chapter 16, verses 23 and 24, the same verb to praise, to verbally declare the celebration of God is used of the Philistine idol or the false God Dagon. When he delivers Samson into their hands. So let me just read it. This is Judges 16, 23, 24. Now the rulers of the Philistines assembled to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon, their God, and to celebrate him saying, Our God has delivered Samson our enemy into our hands. When the people saw him, they praised their God. Our God has delivered our enemy into our hands and the one who has laid waste to our lands and multiplied our slain. So same verb applied to God. I'm going to verbally celebrate. I'm going to verbally celebrate for the actions, attributes, positions of this thing. So the psalmist verbally celebrates the one true God. The Philistines verbally celebrate their false God. But I did want you to see their verbally celebrated the false God for what they thought the false God had done. They believed it was Dagon who delivered Samson into their hands. Now, if you have not read the Book of Judges, just buckle your seatbelt and go for it. It's a weird book, right? It is a weird book. It's just after they move into the land of Canaan and not quite before the monarchy and everybody's kind of doing their own thing. And the judges, just sidelines here if you want to do a study on the book of Judges, the judges are not great examples. I'm just going to put that there. Samson is like the 50 shades of the Old Testament. So don't try to copy them. But I did want you to see that this verbal celebration, this verbal praise can be to God. It can be to a false God. And it can also be people bragging about themselves. Here's Jeremiah chapter 9, 23 and 24. People can verbally celebrate or brag on themselves. This is what the Lord says. Let not the wise boast of their wisdom or the strong boast of their strength or the rich boast of their riches. But let the one who boasts boast about this, that they have the understanding to know me, that I am the Lord who exercises kindness, justice and righteousness on the earth. For in these things I delight declares the Lord. You saw the number of words boast there. Same Hebrew word as praise. Now they called it boasting because the object is a human. If I brag about my own stuff, that's me boasting. And so in English we would use the word boasting. We generally don't say I praised myself. Right? You normally when I use the word praise, the object is outside of myself. But in the Hebrew there's no reason for that. So we can see God is praised. We can see Dagon is praised. We can see that other human beings can be verbally celebrated. Now I do want to state here that this next word is also praise. But it is specifically praise within song. So the praise that I just gave you was a verbal celebration. If I were to praise Jim for how much he looks like George Clooney. Right? That is a verbal celebration of that beautiful man's jawline. But now if I were to grab Kenzie's guitar and play it and sing it, that's this other kind of praise. So in the Bible there is a difference between the verbal speaking of praise and praise when it is encapsulated in song. So this is the next definition of praise. It's really song of, if you put that in parenthesis, song of praise. This is Psalm 33 verses 1 through 3. Kenzie, aren't you glad your guitar only has 6 strings, not 10? Do you see how all of those verses have a musical connotation to them? Because even in English the word praise is the same for us. But in the Hebrew it's a totally different word. This word praise is songs of praise. Memorializing or celebrating the things of God by writing songs about him. We still do the same thing. We open our service with songs of praise. Now in the middle of those songs, Melanie or one of the other worship team members may speak words of praise. Right? Two different words in the Bible, even though in our English all I have is praise. Generally songs of praise are directed to God as a form of worship, but they can also refer to glory or renown. So here if you, and I know I'm jumping all over, I just want you to see all these things. Nehemiah chapter 12, 46 and 47 also uses this same word. For long ago in the days of David and Asaph there had been directors for the musicians for the songs of praise and thanksgiving to God. So in the days of Zerubbabel and of Nehemiah all Israel contributed to the daily portions for the musicians and gatekeepers. So that they set aside the portions for other Levites and the Levites set aside the portions for the descendants of Aaron. I need to give you a little history so you understand what this verse is about. So let's do the big Bible story so I can explain what they're saying. Okay, here we go. Ready? In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. He makes a garden of Eden and He puts two people in it, Adam and Eve. Sin happens. Adam and Eve get kicked out. He's going to send a flood. He sends boat instructions to a dude named Noah. Noah builds a boat. There's a huge flood. The flood recedes. They get off the boat. A little time ago God chooses a very special man to make a covenant. His name was Abram. God changes his name to Abraham. Abraham has a son named Isaac. That has a son named Jacob. And then Jacob has a bunch of sons. That gets us to the end of the book of Genesis. Then they go into Egypt to escape a famine. They stay there for about 400 years. Egypt enslaves them because then there's a Pharaoh who didn't know who Joseph was. And Israel is in slavery. They cry out for a deliverer and God sends them a man named Abraham. A man named Moses. Moses' brother's name is Aaron. And their sister's name is Miriam. Together the three of them lead the children of Israel out of Egypt after the ten plagues. The big red sea parts. It's like the massive prince of Egypt dramatic moments. We walk across the dry land. And then they wander for 40 years in the wilderness because they can't figure out how to be obedient. Then after that generation died off, God raises up a new leader after Moses. His name is Joshua. I heard it. Joshua. Joshua leads them into the land of Canaan. That gets us to the judges period which is level freaky deaky. So we're going to leave that alone. Then all of a sudden comes the united monarchy in the middle. Who's the first king of the united monarchy of Israel? Saul. Followed by? David. Followed by? Solomon. What happens after Solomon? Civil war. Rehoboam is correct. But civil war is what I was going with. Civil war and the kingdom of God splits into two. Up here is the nation of Israel. Down here is the nation of Judah. How many tribes in the northern kingdom of Israel? Ten. How many tribes in the lower kingdom of Judah? Two. Then they stay divided until they go into exile. So Assyria comes and defeats Israel. And Judah is still kind of on its own because it was a little more righteous. Then Assyria falls to Babylon. Babylon comes in and kills Judah. Then everybody goes into slavery. And then Babylon ultimately falls to Persia. Then the new king of Persia says, hey, everybody can go home. Cue Nehemiah. That's where Nehemiah is in the Bible story. They get to come home to the land. And now they got to restart everything all over again. The reason I need you to see that is this verse 46. He said for long ago in the time of David and Asaph. Asaph, if you don't recognize the name, wrote part of the book of Psalms. So David is a psalmist and Asaph is a psalmist. They're referring to the guys who write the worship of God. There had been directors for musicians for the songs of praise and thanksgiving to God. After the exile period, when they move home back into the land of Canaan, they have to restart the temple worship. They have to re-engage everything. That's why they're saying just like in the days of David and Asaph, when there were musicians to write songs of praise to God. So now in the days of Zerubbabel and Nehemiah. Zerubbabel was the governor at the time. Nehemiah was the dude who led them back. So they're saying we're going to do now like we did then. And we are going to re-engage the songs of praise and the worship, musical worship of God. Also Deuteronomy chapter 10, this is 20 and 21. For the fear of the Lord your God, or fear the Lord your God and serve him. Hold fast to him and take oaths in your name. He is the one you praise. He is your God who performed for you those great and awesome wonders which you saw with your own eyes. All of those words praise are musical praise. They are songs of worship to God. So we've got bow down. We've got praise verbal. You've got praise in song. Here's the next one. The next word that can be translated worship is to draw near or to approach. To draw near or to approach. This is Leviticus chapter 1 verse 1. Leviticus 1, 1. The Lord, notice all capital letters. That means Yahweh, covenant name for God. Called to Moses and spoke to him from the tent of meeting. He said, speak to the Israelites and say to them, when anyone among you, you want to see that word bring? When anyone among you brings an offering to the Lord, bring as your offering an animal from either the herd or the flock. Those two English words bring are the same Hebrew word to draw near or to approach. That's another one of the words that's translated. It literally means to approach, to come into proximity of, to get near to. But it usually carries the connotation of why am I coming near to you? I am coming near to you to bring an offering. That's why in English we use the word bring. Because for us, the coming near is subsequent to the idea of what I bring when I come near. If I was bringing you a present and I wanted to give it to you, I would have to get in proximity to you in order to give it to you. So this draw near or this approach literally means to bring something to the Lord. You can see here in Ezra chapter 8 verse 35. This is again after they come home. Then the exiles who had returned from captivity sacrificed burnt offerings to the God of Israel. That word sacrificed, same word as to, I'm sorry, I'm not going to read the rest of that text. That word sacrificed in verse 35 is the same Hebrew word to draw near, to approach, to worship. You see it again in the book of Ezekiel 44, 6 through 8. It says, say to rebellious Israel, this is what the sovereign Lord says, enough of your detestable practices. Like every now and again God gets a little too with his people. Enough of your detestable practices, people of Israel. In addition to all your other detestable practices, you brought, that word brought, foreigners, uncircumcised in heart and flesh into my sanctuary, desecrating my temple while you offered me food, fat, blood and broke my covenant. That word brought is the same Hebrew word for worship. It means to draw near, to approach, to bring an offering. This is another biblical way. That's why, like, if I just throw out the word worship in English and I didn't give it any frame of reference, well then you don't know which one am I talking about. Am I talking about worship because we're going to sing to God? Am I talking about worship because we're going to declare the glory of God? Am I talking about worship because we're going to bow down, exalt him and make ourselves lower? Am I talking about worship in the sense that we're going to draw near and give a gift to God? All of those are part of the biblical picture that is worship. You can't have one and then say the others aren't real because they're all in there. Let me ask you a simple question. This is a rhetorical question so you don't have to answer it. At the end of our service we collect an offering, right? Most churches do this. Has it ever occurred to you that the offering is you drawing near to God? Right? It's what we do, we draw near to him. It's not just something we give away and be like, here God, that's yours. I'll give it to the usher, they'll get it to you. Right? In our modern, or even like the way my family does, we do it digitally. So I don't even actually physically hand something in here at church. Giving of an offering to the Lord, whether it be a financial offering, whether it be a verbal offering of praise, like there was plenty of different kinds of offerings in the Bible. So let's not limit the scope to only financial. But financial is what we primarily do. The way you sing to God is you giving it to him. The way we praise God is us giving it to him. The way we give of our finances to God is us giving it to him. But you can't give something to God without getting in his presence first. In the same way that I can't give you a present if I don't first approach you. If I don't walk up and say, Jerry, man, how you been? I love you. Here you go, bro. I've got to be in proximity in order to give to him. That's what this word, worship, to draw near, to approach. And then finally, this is going to be everybody's favorite worship. To work. Worship is to work or to serve. Here's Genesis chapter 2 verses 5 through 7, all the way back to the beginning. Garden of Eden, Genesis 2 is before sin. Now no shrub had yet appeared on the earth and no plant had yet sprung up. For the Lord God had not sent rain on the earth and there was no one to work the ground. But streams came up from the earth and watered the whole surface of the ground. Then the Lord God formed a man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And the man became a living being. The end of verse 5, it says there was no one to work the ground. That is also the same word as to worship, to work or to serve. Probably the most popular use of this word, to work or to serve in the context of worship, comes from the Exodus story. In Exodus chapter 7, there's more than verse 16, Moses says this a lot so I only put one up here for you. Then say to him, the Lord the God of Hebrews has sent me to say to you, let my people go so that they may worship me. The same exact Hebrew word that they may worship me that's used by Moses is used to describe Adam's work in the garden. Same exact word. We don't see that in English because we have the word work and then we have the word worship. So we just immediately associate them as two separate things. But in the original text that word is exactly the same. Why? Because in the Garden of Eden, Adam's worship was to be a steward of the garden itself. God built it, he made it, he placed Adam in it. And being a steward of it was his worship to God. That's why some of your English translations will say, let my people go so that they may serve me. Why? Because it's the same word. If we are serving God, we should be worshiping him. And if we are worshiping God, we should be serving him. In the Hebrew there's no disconnect between those ideas. You see it again, Judges chapter 2, 10 through 12. After that whole generation had been gathered to their ancestors, another generation grew up who knew neither the Lord nor what he had done for Israel. Then the Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord and served the Baals. They forsook the Lord their God, their ancestors, who brought them out of Egypt. They followed in, worshiped various gods of the people around them. The word serve in verse 11 is the same exact Hebrew word as the word worship in verse 12. Why? Because they were worshiping or they were serving false gods. That's why this portrait of worship is super important to see that worship can be applied wrongly. In fact, I did a whole sermon series a few years ago on the number of times in the Bible God rejects the worship of his people because they did it wrong. There's like five or six in the Bible of times God was like, and no. Be for effort, but no, you still did it wrong. God does reject false worship or incorrect worship. Here in the judge's passage we see that they were not just, and this is where like, man how do I, every now and again I just got like, Kellyanne, am I allowed to say that? I wish you could see on a Sunday morning the running dialogue that happens in the back of my head before the words make it out of my brain mouth filter and into the mic. If all we do is think of worship as singing songs, then I don't think we understand how much we probably serve idols without knowing it. Right? Here in this judge's passage, that's why I do like that it says serve in verse 11 and worship in verse 12. The Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord and served the balls, the bales, the Canaanite false gods. And again, the definition of worship that I gave you is that the word worship is false. And again, the definition of worship that I gave you is any intentional action that is used to attribute worthiness to a god, not only the god, but a god. So we think about the number of idols, the number of false gods that exist in American culture today. And how much intentional action do people put behind attributing worthiness or value to those things? See, it's easy to read the book of Judges and look back at the false gods and go, Well, we don't build temples on hills anymore and we don't sacrifice goats to statues anymore. So yeah, we probably don't have a problem with idolatry. No, we have a giant problem with idolatry. We just don't make idols out of them anymore. Now they're ideas. Just ask yourself the number of times in American culture you see people put intentional action toward the pursuit of personal pleasure, toward the pursuit of the gain of money, toward the pursuit of power or influence or fame or notoriety. See, we don't call those idols, but I would submit to you that anything that you do in intentional action to attribute worthiness to is actually an idol. That's why I wanted you to see the bigger portrait of what the Bible says about worship. So let's scroll back here, or I'm going to scroll. You just sit there for a minute. So here's all the different ways the word worship is translated in the Bible. We bow down, making ourselves lesser than in order to communicate reverence, respect or submission. We praise by verbally celebrating a god or a person. We praise in song, generally directed towards god, but can also refer to the glory and renown of people. We draw near and approach and give gifts in order to connotate bringing offerings to those things. And we can work and serve something that is god or that is other than god. All of that is the biblical portrait of worship. Now I want to pivot to the New Testament, and I want to look at the only time in recorded scripture where Jesus himself taught on the topic of worship. Anybody who is into worship or worship leading, you need to know this passage. Because it's the only time in the Gospels that Jesus gave direct teaching on the topic of worship itself. So if you have your Bibles, turn with me to the Gospel of John, Chapter 4. We're only going to look at a short section because I realize I've already been teaching for a while. So I want to end with Jesus because I'm pretty sure if we do what Jesus says, then we're probably doing good. And if I don't do what Jesus says, maybe that's just as simple as we need to be. Let's do what Jesus says. So first I want to read to you John, Chapter 4. I'm going to start in verse 19. I'm going to read to verse 26. Then we're going to go back and we're going to walk through it. So here we go. This is just to give you the backstory here. We're jumping into a conversation with Jesus and a Samaritan woman in Samaria at a well in the middle of the day. And there's nobody else around. It's Jesus, the Samaritan woman at a well in the middle of the day. Here we go. Verse 19. Believe me, a time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem. You Samaritans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know, for salvation is from the Jews. Yet a time is coming, and now has come, when true worshipers will worship the Father in the Spirit and in the truth, for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is Spirit, and his worshipers must worship in the Spirit and in truth. The woman said, I know the Messiah, called Christ, is coming. When he comes, he will explain everything to us. Then Jesus declared, I, the one who am speaking to you, I am he. Okay? So let's go back to verse 19. So first you need to understand, Jews don't go through Samaria, right? If you're thinking about your New Testament geography, I always tell people, I just want you to draw a snowman, right? There's three basic sections. The top up here is Galilee, the middle is Samaria, the bottom is Israel, where Jerusalem is. The Jews disliked the Samaritans so much that they would come from Israel, they would go across the river over into totally Greek Roman territory called Peria, the Decapolis, there's ten cities over here. They would cross the river, go all the way up so we could skip it, and then come back over, just so I don't have to set foot on Samaritan ground. I can't even think of the right analogy, but that's like if I want to go to New York, and I just really, really, really hate Jersey, so I'm going to go up through PA just to come back all the way around, so I don't have to set foot on New Jersey soil. That's how much they disliked the Samaritans. Now, the Samaritans hated the Jews too. It goes both ways. So this passage has a lot of racial tension in it. Also, he's a religious teacher. He's talking to a woman alone in the middle of the day. So he's got a little bit of spice on this, because when his disciples come, they're like, Jesus, what are you doing? Why are you talking to this woman alone? That's weird. So you get to verse 19. Sir, I can see that you're a prophet. I don't want to super go into the beginning of it, but the woman has a lifestyle that needed to be challenged. She tried to hide from it. Jesus points it out, and then she uses a second technique, and she goes, oh, well, you must be a prophet. Let me ask you a really cool question. Scholars debate whether this question is a distraction tactic or whether this question is genuine. To me, the motivation behind her asking the question is secondary to the truth of what Jesus wants to teach. So you're welcome to think that she's just distracting Jesus. You're also welcome to think it's a genuine question. Either way, whatever her motivation is doesn't change what Jesus is teaching about the truth of worship. And then she says, our ancestors worshiped on this mountain. She's talking about Mount Gerizim in Samaria. But the Jews claim that the place where he must worship is in Jerusalem. So why is this? Remember when we talked about the big Bible story and they all went away into captivity for 70 years? During the time that Israel went away into captivity, the Samaritans built their own temple. They built their own system of worship. If you go all the way back to when the two nations split, Israel didn't want their people going to Judah to worship. So Israel started creating its own worship. What was God's intention? You're going to worship me at my house. Where's my house? It's in Jerusalem. That's where my house is. So the Israelites before the captivity created a false temple. The Samaritans do it again during the captivity so that when everybody comes home, now we're competing. We've got a Samaritan temple and we've got an Israel-based temple. And these two groups of people hate each other as the day is long. So the Samaritans refused to go down to Jerusalem to worship in the real temple. And the Israelites refused to even go through Samaria because they're creating false worship. So here is the question. Our ancestors, meaning the Samaritans, we worshiped here. Your ancestors, the Jews, you guys worship over there. And then Jesus replies in verse 21, believe me, a time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain, nor in Jerusalem. What is the ultimate saying? He's saying you've got the object of worship wrong. It's not about where. Now, up until this point, it totally was, right? God's presence was only in the Holy of Holies in Jerusalem. The false temple built in Samaria wasn't there. If you really, really want to dive deep, after they rebuilt the temple during the whole Nehemiah, Ezra, moving back, the spirit of God never re-inhabited the second temple. I know that for those of you who like your super big Bible study, right? God creates the tabernacle and he fills it with his glory. Then when they finally build the permanent temple, Solomon's temple, fills it with his glory. That gets destroyed. They rebuild the second temple. There is never an infilling of the second temple. Why? Because we are now, when Christ comes, he comes to change the game. That's why he's saying there's coming a time where the question you're asking me is not even going to matter. It's not going to be about where you worship. It's going to be about how you worship. This is what Jesus brings in here. Verse 22. You Samaritans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know, for salvation is from the Jews. Now that sounds a little harsh, right? The question is, is what Jesus is saying true or false? Did salvation for the entire world come through the Jewish people? Yes. Jesus is literally the one saying it. So the Samaritans, by creating their false worship, are distracting from the truth that Jesus is trying to bring, which is salvation to the whole world. 23. Yet a time is coming, and now has come, when true worshipers, you can only have true worshipers if you have false worshipers. So just because you worship doesn't mean you're worshiping the right thing. The time is coming when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. And these two words, I mean, there is tons of ink that has been spilled writing commentaries on what is Jesus saying. I'm going to give you my best take on what this means, and I'm going to do it in context. So first, what is the truth that Jesus is speaking about? He mentions it in the verse just before that. You Samaritans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know, for salvation is from the Jews. The truth that Jesus is speaking about that changes the game, for why it doesn't matter if you worship there or you worship over here, is Jesus is coming to change the way worship is done. He is coming to be the truth. I am the way, the truth, and the life. So the only appropriate way to worship God is through Christ. Why? Because salvation comes through Christ. So that's the truth. Then also the spirit. How do we worship God in the spirit? Well, if you look in the previous chapter, right? So chapter three and chapter four, they have a lot of mirror images with one another. Chapter three is the nighttime conversation with Nicodemus, the religious teacher. Jesus is trying to teach Nicodemus about the kingdom of God. And he says, no one can see the kingdom of God unless they are born again. Born of water and born of the spirit. We have to worship God with spiritual life because God is spirit. So then here, when we get here, God is spirit. That's the beginning of verse 24. God is spirit and his worshipers must worship him in spirit and in truth. Why is it important that he's telling the Samaritan woman to worship God in spirit? Because she's focused on worshiping God in a location, not in a method. She thinks that if I'm in the right place, then God will accept my worship. What Jesus is saying is there's coming a time, and by the way, it's here now, when the place doesn't matter. The how you worship is going to matter. But the place you go to worship isn't going to matter. If I brought this into a modern-day context, I could simply say, I don't care if you worship to the brand newest Brandon Lake album that just came out or you absolutely love the hymns from the 1700s. Why? Because it doesn't matter which style of music you worship to. It matters what your heart says. We're still fighting the same fight. We're still disagreeing about the same distractionary things. So God is spirit, his worshipers must worship in spirit and in truth. The worship that God is seeking is offered to him only through the new spiritual life that is gained through the truth of salvation in Christ. Now look at 25. The woman says, I know the Messiah. And then they add in there, called Christ. Christ is the Greek word for the Hebrew word Messiah. It's coming. When he comes, he will explain everything else. One thing you have to understand about the Samaritans, they were also waiting for the Messiah. They were. Why? Because the Messiah expectation goes all the way back to Deuteronomy. They were waiting for the one who would come and give the new heart to Israel. So even though the Samaritans are jacked up and they got a false temple and they got a lot of things wrong, they're still waiting for that one true Messiah who is going to restore them to right relationship. And then Jesus says, now keep in mind Jesus is alone. It's just him and this lady at a well. And he says, I to speaking to you am he. Jesus is the promised Messiah figure who will teach us what is true and what is right and how to worship in our relationship with God. This is the only time that Jesus gives this revelation about worship. And he gives it to a Samaritan woman with a somewhat questionable lifestyle in the middle of the desert. He's not standing in the temple in Jerusalem. He's not talking to priests. He's not talking to Levites. He's not engaging in teaching worship on a large scale. He's sitting with one woman that mostly every other Jew would have ignored or worse would have treated poorly. And this one woman gets the revelation about what is true worship. The other thing I need you to see is the end of verse 23. They are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. Here's the final thing I need you to understand about worship. God is seeking people who will worship him correctly, who will worship him appropriately. God desires for us to worship him rightly. Unfortunately, there are just plenty of ways to screw that up. There are plenty of ways to get distracted. You can get distracted by being in Samaria or in Jerusalem. You can get distracted by electric guitar or acoustic guitar. Both of those are wrong answer. Both is the right answer. You can get distracted by contemporary versus a hymnology. You can get distracted by big church versus little church. You can get distracted by Calvinism versus Pentecostalism. There are plenty of ways for us to get distracted from good, right worship. So here, let me bring this in. How to worship correctly. Three steps. Number one, recognize that all worship is action attributing worthiness to a God. And I'll say it this way. You do worship in your everyday life. It just might not be Jesus. Right? So all recognize that all worship is action attributing worthiness to a God. Number two, realize that God only seeks worship from those who worship in Christ. That is the lens of what is truth about worship. What is true. Worship in spirit and in truth. God only seeks worship from those who worship in Christ. That's why when Christ came on the scene, Jerusalem versus Samaria was no longer a thing. We're putting that away because now right worship comes through Christ. And number three, reorganize your life to place Jesus as your number one allegiance. And then act accordingly. Are you more allegiance to Jesus on an average Tuesday afternoon than the rest of your life?