Well good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us for worship today. Whether you are physically here in our sanctuary or you are joining us online on Facebook, YouTube, or maybe you're just watching the service after the fact, after it's already happened. You're watching a replay. Thank you for being a part of our church and for being a part of our worship today. So here at Catalyst we are about one thing and that is loving people to life change in Christ. And one of the ways that we change our lives day by day is studying the word of God together. So that's what I'm going to hopefully walk us through this morning. We are going to finish up the better series as we've been working through this definition of what is a disciple. So hopefully you have the handout that was given to you at the beginning and you walked in the door. On the very back of it, it's the one, two, three, four, fifth line. It says the key thought that's sort of tying all of these messages together. So I want to read it to you and then I want to ask us all to read it together for one final time. Here it is. A disciple is called to be a holy, faithful servant who worships God alone and is active in his community. So let's read that together. A disciple is called to be a holy, faithful servant who worships God alone and is active in his community. And we've looked at holy, we've looked at faithful, we've looked at servant. Last week we looked at worship and this week we're going to look at what does it mean to be a part of Christian community. And I am intentionally using the term Christian community instead of just using the term church. Because church tends to be a pretty loaded word in American culture, American church or churchisms or churchology or Christianese or we invent all of these other terms when the reality is we are a Christian community whether we are sitting in this building or whether we are sitting in any other building. We are still a Christian community. So first I would like to give you what I believe is the best definition I can of what Christian community is and then I'd like to unpack it a little bit. So here it is. Christian community is the tribe whose identity and mission is defined by the deity, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Christian community is the tribe whose identity and mission is defined by the deity, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And there are three key elements to this definition that I think we need to be very clear about. And here is the first one. Jesus is the source of our identity. And I know identity is a big word and it's a pretty loaded word in our culture right now. But there should not be a question if you are a Christian if you have placed your faith in Christ. If you recognize that he is God and he died and he rose and we are going to get into those three things in a minute. That Jesus is the source of identity for everyone who is in the Christian community. There is no better example. You know my son and I were having a conversation about how to deal with people in the world who irritate you. I'm sure that is like only a problem for me. I get it right. Everybody else who comes to church you guys are all perfect. But I have to stand up here and I'll admit that people are irritating right. Some of the most irritating people are me people who don't know how to use turn signals right. Of which my wife's back there pointing at me I am the chiefest of sinners. I'm like oh look I can go this way. And my son asked me he says dad how do I love God and righteousness right. And love holiness and love the things of God and love the word of God. And then also deal with this irritating nest that we call sin in our world. How do I do that? And I looked at him and I said well number one Micah that is probably the most profound question that anybody can ever ask. I said but the answer is really simple. Learn how to be like Jesus. Learn how to be like Jesus. Jesus is the only human being that we have. Jesus is the only human being to ever walk the face of planet earth. Who would have been justified in judging everybody's sin. And yet was broken for sinners. So all we really need to do is get the fact that our key source of identity as the Christian community is Jesus. However he is not just the source of our identity. The second part of this definition. Jesus is the source of our mission. Jesus is the source and the purpose of all of the activity of the Christian community. There is nothing the Christian community can, will or should do that exists outside the mission of Jesus. Now you may look at me and go well what exactly is the mission of Jesus? That's a great question. But if you can't connect what you do as a Christian to the mission of Jesus then you're not doing it as a Christian. We might be doing other activities. I mean I don't mow my lawn and go Jesus really loves that blade of grass right there. Look at that I did that. Yeah man. But I am thankful that I have a lawn. And I am thankful and grateful that I have a lawn mower. Specifically one that I can drive so I don't have to go up and down the hills in my front yard. And I can take care of my lawn and say Lord I thank you that you give me this house to be a good steward of. And in that way mowing my lawn may not be done specifically for the purpose of the church. But it becomes an act of stewardship and worship. I say Lord thank you for this gift. I'm going to do the best I can with this gift. And also not look like the radiest lawn on the block because I don't want to be that guy. Jesus is the source of our identity. He is the source of our mission. And then here's probably the last part of that definition. The deity death and resurrection of Jesus is the source of all of Christianity. The deity death and resurrection of Jesus is the source of all Christianity. And I can't say this and then not take another rabbit trail. So we're going to take a rabbit trail together. I promise it's not a long rabbit trail. We will still get to your Taco Bell for lunch. But I don't think we can adequately talk about Christian community and not talk about the relationship between Jesus and the Bible. And I have grown up as an American Christian my entire life. I was born in New Jersey. I grew up there. I got paroled when I was age nine. And now I moved to the south for the adult life. And now we're back. And there is a confusion sometimes. Some churches the Trinity is God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And in some churches the Trinity is God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Bible. And so I need to properly establish the relationship between Jesus and the Bible because I think this makes it hard a lot of times when we try to tell other people about what it means to be a Christian. And you have to start with what the Bible says. So in case you didn't know, someone who's not a Christian doesn't care what the Bible says. Like I don't mean to shock anybody, right? But you might put your seatbelts on for the next like five minutes in case I offend you, you can let me know later on your connect card. Jesus is the source of Christian community, not the Bible. You know how I know that? Because if we just talk about what was the earliest book in the Bible to be written. Some people are going to give you Galatians, some people are going to give you James. There might be a little bit of a dispute. But the reality is the first books of the New Testament to be penned were not the Gospels and were not the book of Acts. They were the letters. Paul got saved 18 to 24 months after the cross and starts doing ministry. James gets saved after the cross, starts doing ministry. So the first Christian documents to be written are actually the letters. So I'm going to go with Galatians because I think Galatians was written a little bit before James. Galatians was written approximately AD 64. Jesus rose on April the 9th AD 30. So all of you guys are super good at math. If Jesus rose in AD 30 and Paul didn't write Galatians until AD 64, how many years have gone by? 34. See, all of you are math majors now. Check. Did people get saved in the first 34 years of Christianity? Yes. We have a record of it in the book of Acts. Even though the book was written later, the events that it described happened right after the resurrection. 3,000 people got saved in Acts chapter 2 on the day of Pentecost. The Holy Spirit falls and boom, 3,000 people got added to the church. They didn't have the New Testament. It wasn't written yet. So if we ground our Christian faith on the New Testament, then you have to ask yourself, what did they preach in the first 34 years of Christianity when the New Testament wasn't written yet? And here's the crux. The Bible doesn't save. Jesus does. See, the day after the resurrection, they were preaching the resurrection. The day after the resurrection, they were preaching that Jesus is God, that Jesus died on a cross, and that Jesus rose. And by the way, if you don't believe me, look at the evidence list in 1 Corinthians. Paul is like, you can go talk to this dude, you can go talk to this dude, you can go talk to that 500 group of people who saw him risen. That's what Christianity is grounded and founded on. The Bible is what we use to learn about Jesus. The Bible is the inspired word of God. Yes, I'm not trying to downplay the Bible. I'm just trying to make sure that we root our faith on what's most important, and then we learn about Jesus from the word of God. Because if you needed the New Testament to preach the gospel, then you've got to explain to me how people got saved in the first 34 years of Christianity. They got saved because Jesus saves. The Bible teaches. Does that make sense? I realize that's a little bit of a it's a little bit of an apologetic rabbit trail, but it's an important one. Because when somebody comes to me and says, hey man, man, I got some really big questions. I just think maybe the Bible conflicts with itself. I don't know that we can trust the way the Bible was handed down. I'm like, do you know that you can be a Christian and still ask those questions? That's what I tell them. Straight off, off the bat, guess what, Christianity is not based on the Bible. So what's your question again? And they look at me like, well I don't know what to do now. Or when I'm sitting on social media and I have these really fun back and forth conversations with atheists and all they want to do is tear down the Bible. I'm like, go ahead. You still can't tear down the core of Christianity. If Jesus rose, Christianity is true. If Jesus didn't, Christianity is false and we're all just wasting our time. Period. End of story. All I need is the resurrection to prove that Jesus is God and Jesus died on the cross and he rose. That is the foundation of all of Christianity, which means by proxy, that is the foundation of our identity as Christians and our mission as his followers. Does that make sense? All we need is the deity, death, and resurrection of Jesus. Thank you very much. The foundation of the church is not the building we meet in. The foundation of the church is not the day that we worship on. The foundation of the church is not the style of music we sing or the type of seats that you're sitting on or the name on the church outside or the name on the sign outside. None of that is the foundation of the church. The foundation of the church is Jesus, who's God, who died on the cross and who rose from the grave. Period. End of story. Amen. So, if the Bible is not the foundation, I already said that, how do people get saved before Jesus rose? Duh. Alright, moving on. Now that we understand what the foundation of Christian community is, it's Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. Now I need to explain to you the greatest word in the New Testament to describe what our community is supposed to look like. The English word, or the Greek word in English is ekklesia. If you've been around church for a long time and you can go to any church where people like using root words, the word ekklesia is the Greek word that is used to describe Christian community in the New Testament. However, just like we've done with other words, the word range, right? Does anybody remember what you call the term for the range of a word usage? Semantic range, I heard it. Somebody said it. Semantic range is the right definition. So it can be this, it can be that. I want to give you the semantic range of this word ekklesia so that you can best understand what the word of God is telling us our Christian community is supposed to look like. So the first definition, the ekklesia, and this is probably the one that we're most used to, is called a local group of believers. So the ekklesia can be a local group of believers in a specific place. Let me show you this. Acts chapter 5, verse 11. Great fear seized the whole church and all who heard about these events. The word church there in that verse is ekklesia. Acts 11, 22. News of this reached the church this time in Jerusalem and they sent Barnabas to Antioch. So here in 11, 22, the local usage is clearly seen because it says, hey, the ekklesia in Jerusalem, Acts chapter 12, verse 5. So Peter was kept in prison, but the church was earnestly praying for him. That is again, the local body of believers where he was taken and imprisoned. So the first definition that the New Testament gives us for this word ekklesia is what we are today. If I were to relate this part of the range, this is Catalyst Community Church. This is what we are this morning. We are a local body of believers, but we do not comprise all that there is of Christianity, right? We are not all the Christians on planet Earth. That would be really sad. We are this local body of believers. We are this local ekklesia. The second definition, and a lot of times in English, anybody ever heard the difference between the Little Sea Church and the Big Sea? So the Little Sea Church, that's what we are right here. Now, when you capitalize the word church in English, now you're not talking about a single local body of believers. You are talking about the universal group of all believers from all times and places. That is also an ekklesia, but now we are talking about the universal church, not a local church. So let me give you a couple of examples. Matthew 16, verse 18. And I tell you, or I tell you that you are Peter. And on this rock I will build my church. And the gates of Hades will not overcome it. Here, this is Jesus speaking, and he's not speaking of any one local body because this was during the Gospels and there wasn't local bodies of believers yet. Jesus is speaking about the Christian community that he is about to found and he says, and on this rock I will build my church. Then we fast forward Acts chapter 8, verse 3. And Saul began to destroy the church going from house to house. He dragged off both men and women and put them in prison. Now that church is again the universal body of believers. Every person, Paul uses the term body of Christ to describe the universal ekklesia. That would be a totally fine one. Next one is 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 32. Do not cause anyone to stumble, whether Jews or Greeks or the church of God. Again, you see the universal usage there. So, ekklesia can be us, an individual local group. Ekklesia can be the universal global church. The third definition of ekklesia can be a public assembly or group of people. Now think about it. How many people love board meetings? Anybody love those? No? Jim, you don't love your HOA board meetings? No. That's the best way I can describe it. Think of a local board or government meeting. A local assembly there to deal with local business. So that's another use of the word ekklesia. Take a look at Acts chapter 7, verse 38. He was in the assembly in the wilderness with the angel who spoke to him on styling the glow of the World. The evil spirit he candy stick is here with him and this Holy Spirit fell on him and the Volcanic soul about to speaker with white�of our Like the Holy Spirit Ecclesia. They were there to do business for the whole town. Acts chapter 1939, if there is anything further you want to bring up it must be settled in a legal assembly. In all of these uses, Ecclesia is not specifically Christian assembly but a local assembly for the purpose of conducting business, a transaction of keeping community working and keeping it functioning, right? So in all of these definitions, here's the key function. There's a group where the individuals are identified with and understood as part of the whole. Doesn't matter if it's the Christian local Ecclesia, the Christian universal Ecclesia, or the overall board meeting style group Ecclesia. All three of those definitions carry the same function and that is if it is a group of individuals, the individuals are identified with the group as well as understood through the purpose of the group. When Paul was brought before the town meeting, they were like, hey man this dude's preaching some stuff I'm really not so sure about. It's impacting my income. I'm a guy who sells idols and I need to you know I need to feed my family. I don't like that he's saying we shouldn't worship idols anymore and so they bring him in front of the town council. That's an Ecclesia. They bring him in front of that. If you ever saw in the Bible people meet at the city gate, that's an Ecclesia. Why? Because they're there to do business. In all of these definitions, each person is described through the whole. So here's your definition again. Christian community is the tribe whose identity and mission is defined by the deity death and resurrection of Jesus. The final person that I want to look at describing this Ecclesia is Jesus himself. So there's your semantic range, your local assembly, your universal church, and your local business assembly. Everybody's in on the team. Now let's take a look at what Jesus says about his specific church. This is Matthew chapter 16. I want to read 13 to 20 and then I want to walk back through it. Before we read this, let's go ahead and let's go ahead and review the big Bible story of how we get to the book of Matthew. So here we go. Genesis 1 1. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. He plants a garden at a place named Eden and he creates two humans placing him in the garden. Adam and Eve. Then sin happens. They're kicked out of the garden and Adam and Eve have two sons, Cain and Abel. Right. One kills the other and then he goes off and then you fast forward to Genesis chapter 9. God is displeased with the sin of humanity. He's about to send a flood but before he does that he offers salvation and he instructs a man named Noah to build a boat, builds an ark. Say to everybody flood happens, flood recedes, they get off the boat. How many human beings walked off the ark? How many? Eight. That's right. Noah. Noah had three sons and each one of them was married. So eight human beings walk off the ark to repopulate. Get to Genesis chapter 12. God chooses a special man and he makes a covenant with him. That man's name is? Abram. God changes the name to? Abraham. Abraham has the son of promise named? Isaac's. Isaac's son of promise is named? Jacob. Jacob has how many kids? 13. 13 technically. You're right. Then Joseph sold into slavery by his brothers, goes into Egypt. He's in Egypt for probably about 13 to 15 years as a slave. He rises up into ranks. Ultimately there's a famine and his brothers have to come to Egypt. That's the that was just the book of Genesis. It covers that much time. Then they're in Egypt. They go into Egypt to escape a famine but then there comes a Pharaoh who did not know who Joseph was. They enslave the Hebrew people. They're in slavery for about 400 years. In slavery they cry out to God, God send us a deliverer. God says okay and sends them a guy named? Moses. Moses whose brother's name is? Aaron. Aaron whose sister's name is? Miriam. Miriam. The three of them, Moses and Aaron do the miracles. Miriam leads the people in worship of God as they walk across the Red Sea. Then they're supposed to go right into the promised land but they have an obedience problem. They have to wander for 40 years in the wilderness. God provides this very special bread that they eat called? Manna. Right? They eat the manna. Then ultimately the entire older generation dies off and God raises up a new leader for his people. His name is? Joshua. Joshua leads them into the land of Canaan. They go through the Joshua period. They move in and then they have the judges period where everybody does basically what's right in their own eyes. Basically where we live today, relativism. Everybody does what they think is right. And then Israel says to God I want something like all the other kids have. What do I want? I want a king like all the other kids have. So God says okay and the United Monarchy period begins. The first king of the United Monarchy is? Saul followed by? David followed by? Solomon followed by? Civil War. And this is the part of the Bible that doesn't get talked about a lot. That's why I try to stress it. Civil War happens and the 12 tribes split. The northern kingdom of? Israel. Southern kingdom of? How many tribes down here? Two. Which means how many up here? Still super good at math. Good job. So then they both they both have parallel kingdoms. Both not doing well. God judges his people. He says listen I'm gonna have to put you in a timeout. He brings in the nation of who what's the first nation to conquer Israel up here? Yep. Assyria falls to? Babylon. Babylon falls to? You guys are getting really good at this. Persia. Then there's okay so now we're gonna get extra credit. What was the name of the Persian king who let them go back? Okay. Zerxes but I need it in the other language. Anybody know? Darius. Darius the Great. Cyrus comes after Darius. Darius the Great lets them all go back. That's your Ezra. That's your Nehemiah. They rebuild the temple. They restart worshiping God and now they're waiting for the Messiah. They're waiting for their anointed one. How many years of silence between Malachi and Matthew? 400 years. The same, interestingly enough, the same amount of years that they were in captivity in Egypt. 400 years between Malachi and Matthew. You guys know an awful lot about the Bible. And it's in that messianic expectation after being redeemed from slavery. After being redeemed from exile. Rebuilding the temple and waiting for God's spirit to re-inhabit God's people. That's where we walk into Matthew. Jesus walks onto the scene as the anointed one of God. As the God man. And here in Matthew 16 Jesus is teaching his disciples specifically about the kind of Christian community that he is going to leave behind after his resurrection. So now with all of that as our backstory now we jump into Matthew 16. Here we go. Start reading in verse 13. When Jesus came to the region of Caesarea Philippi he asked his disciples, who do people say the son of man is? They replied, some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. But what about you? He asked, who do you say I am? Simon Peter answered, you are the Messiah, the son of the living God. Jesus replied, blessed are you Simon son of Jonah, for this was not revealed to you by flesh and blood but by my father in heaven. And I tell you that you are Peter and on this rock I will build my church and the gates of Hades will not overcome it. And that is the only section we are going to look at this morning. So let's rewind back to the beginning of the conversation. Verse 13. When Jesus came to the region of Caesarea Philippi, where is that? Okay, remember your New Testament geography, right? We just had snow so somebody built a snowman. Anybody built a snowman? Alright, congratulations, a couple of you. I want you in your head, here is how you understand the New Testament. Not joking, it is the easiest thing to do. Think of a snowman, right? It has three balls on it. The bottom one here, the bottom round part, that's going to be Israel. That's where Jerusalem is. That's where Bethany is. That's where Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead. Then in the middle, the middle one, that's Samaria. They don't like going there. And then the top one is Galilee. Those three regions you'll understand almost everything you need to know about New Testament geography. Caesarea Philippi is north of Galilee. It is in Greek-owned territory. So if Galilee is right here, and I got to think in reverse, right? Because you guys are backwards from me. So if Galilee is here, then that means the Sea of Galilee is right here. Caesarea Philippi is north of that. So we're in total Greek territory when Jesus asks the question, who do people say the Son of Man is? Now the Son of Man is a Messianic term. It does not only refer to the fact that Jesus is fully God, fully man. Because at the time that Jesus is teaching this, we have not fought out the Council of Nicaea in 325 AD. We have not solidified the doctrine called the Hippostatic Union, which is the fully man, fully God. We haven't done any of that yet. Jesus is literally still walking the earth teaching us about God. We haven't figured out all the doctrine that we'll have figured out later. So the word Son of Man is a Messianic term. Those of you like your notes, it comes from the book of Daniel chapter 7 verse 13. And I saw one like a son of man approach the ancient of days. When Jesus uses this term to speak about himself, which is one of his most popularly used terms, he is identifying himself as the promised Messiah of the Old Testament. Anybody who's a first testament Jew or first century Jew is totally gonna get that. They know exactly what he's saying. I am the Messiah, the Messiah, the promised one. He said, so who do they say I am the Son of Man? And then in verse 14 they reply and they got a couple choices here. Well, Jesus, some say you're John the Baptist, which is weird because he was just alive and you were born like a couple of months after him. Others say Elijah, still others Jeremiah and still others one of the prophets. So let's break these down. What each of these does have some similarity Jesus, but none of them get the whole picture. So first, John the Baptist, his primary ministry preached repentance. Well, Jesus did that so I can see how that makes a connection. Elijah from the Old Testament in the book of Kings, well he performed miracles. He passed judgment on sin. Okay, Jesus did that. I can see that. Jeremiah passed judgment on sin just as Israel was about to fall before Jerusalem was about to fall. Guys, we did not do it the way God wants to do it. We need to change. Well, I could see how that also sees like Jesus ministry and then one of the prophets, this most likely refers to the prophets that were expected out of the book of Deuteronomy, but it could technically be any of the Old Testament prophets, representatives who speak for God and try to get God's people to follow him. I can totally see how Jesus might make someone think of any one of these figures, but none of them encapsulate all that Jesus is. Then he turns the focus from the crowd of people, who does everybody say I am, and he makes it super specific. Verse 15, but what about you? You meaning his disciples. Not necessarily just the 12 apostles, but the larger group of disciples who followed Christ. So ladies, that's going to include the female followers of Jesus during the gospel period. But what about you? Who do you say I am? Now it doesn't really matter what culture says. I want to hear from you, my followers. Who do you say I am? And Peter answers, you are, and he gives three things, you are the Messiah, you are the Son of the Living God, you are the Messiah, Son of the Living God. So Messiah linking to all of the Old Testament expectations, right? That's why we go over the big Bible story, so that when we jump into the gospel period, you remember all that they remember about who the Messiah is supposed to be. The Messiah is going to be the new lawgiver like Moses. The Messiah is going to be the one who crushes the head of the serpent and destroys sin like from the garden. The Messiah is going to be the promised king of, from David's line, who will rule on the throne. He's going to be all these things. He's going to be the the one from Jeremiah's prophecy, said I will give my people a new heart. The Messiah is going to do all those things, and that's what Jesus came to do was all that stuff. You are the Messiah, and then he goes further. You are the Son of, meaning you are the equal to the same type of, and then the Living God. In verse 16, Simon Peter is saying that Jesus is God. Now, we now use the term God incarnate, right? Because we have about 2,000 more years worth of theological outworking than Peter had. You know, the nice thing about studying church history, and I'll say this for those of you who really super love studying the Bible, studying church history helps you to understand all that we got wrong about Christianity along the way. All these different heresies that have cropped up and we had to go, but is that really what Jesus said? No, it's not. We've been in getting the wrong view of Jesus' humanity or the wrong view of Jesus' divinity. All those things are important, but they didn't have any of that right here. All Peter said was, you are the promised anointed one, but something we didn't know from the Old Testament is that the promised anointed Messiah of God would be God himself. So that's what Peter is saying right here in verse 16. You are the Messiah, the Son of the Living God. Then verse 17, Jesus replies to Peter's answer, blessed are you Simon son of Jonah, for this was not revealed to you by flesh and blood, but by my Father in heaven. This is Jesus as the Messiah Son of God. Not only, he's not just saying that Peter's right, although that he is. He's saying Peter is right, and the source of the revelation that Peter is sharing is God's revelation to Peter. Do you see what I'm saying? We're not just saying, Jesus could have went, nailed it, and be done. Like if all Jesus was trying to do was confirm that Peter's statement about him was correct, he didn't need to say all that he said here in verse 17. It's not just that Peter's statements are correct. It is that Peter's statements are correct and they are divinely inspired. They revealed by the Father in heaven. And then we get to what is quite possibly one of the most disputed verses in all of the New Testament. So everybody put your seat belts on because somebody's gonna get offended. Here we go. Verse 18, and I tell you that you are Peter and on this rock, I will build my church and the gates of Haiti will not overcome it. There are several sections, there are several pieces of this verse and I need to break them down and then we're gonna put the Legos back together. So first, you are Peter. Jesus is not changing Peter's name in this verse. He is reconfirming Peter's name. How do I know that? Because if you were to turn in your Bibles to the first chapter of the Gospel of John, Jesus changes Peter's name the day he meets him, not here. Right? John, in fact those of you taking notes, it's John chapter 1 verses 41 and 42. And you shall be called Peter in the same way that God said to Abram, and you shall be called Abraham. Why? Because when Abram changed to Abraham, he changed from, and I'm trying to pull this out of memory, Abram was I think mighty father and Abraham is father of many nations. So he changed the purpose in the name change. Here, Peter, God changes his name, Jesus changes his name to Petros, which is kind of a play on words because the word for rock in Greek is Petra, P-E-R-T-A. The word for Peter, the name in Greek is Petros or Petros, P-E-T-R-O-S. So the name Peter, I could literally say, and I tell you that you are Petros and on this Petra, I will build my church. Now do you see the play on words? Jesus is getting kind of squirrely with his words here. Right? And I tell you that you are Petros and on this Petra, I will build my church. So you need to understand, Jesus is not changing Peter's name. He already did that way back when they met in the first chapter of John 2. The reason that Peter and rock are in the same verse is because Jesus is getting funky with his word choices. And then I will build my church. A lot of people want to know which rock is Jesus referring to. Is Jesus, and so there's a couple options here. You could see this verse as saying that Peter himself is the foundation of the New Testament Church. Anybody who grew up Catholic, that is the Catholic view of this verse, right? Because in a Catholic system, they are going to go back and claim that Peter was the first Pope and therefore they have an unbroken line of succession of church leadership all the way back to the Apostles. What's super hilarious is the Greek Orthodox Church is gonna say the same exact thing and the Greek Orthodox Church does not recognize the authority of the Pope. That's like 1000 AD. Super cool story that I don't have time to unpack for you, but it involves like a war and a bunch of people being surrounded and it's really cool. The Greek Orthodox Church breaks off from the Catholic Church in about 1000 AD. So one view is that Jesus is saying Peter as the human, as the person, is the foundation of all of Christian community. Can that be right? No, it cannot. Why? Because notice what he says here and this is what most people overlook. He says, you are Peter and on this rock I will build my church. This ain't your church, it's my church. We are not Peteranity. We are Christianity. So when Jesus says to Peter, on this rock, on this Petra, I will build my church. The most important words in that verse are not Peter and rock, it's I and my. Who is building the church? Jesus. And who does the church belong to? Jesus. So how does Peter play into the church that I will belong to? I will say this, you got two choices here. Number one, you could see this as Peter being the beginning, the cornerstone of building the Christian church. Now how can I say that? Because if you look in the book of Acts, Peter preached the gospel first to the Jews, Acts chapter 2, second to the Greeks, Acts chapter 10, and then to the Samaritans, Acts chapter 12. Is Jesus referring to the way that Peter would be used to found the church? Could totally be. The other view is that the rock Jesus is referring to is not Peter as a person or the work that he will do, but the faith statement that Peter made in the previous verse, you are the Messiah, the Son of the Living God. Is that statement not also the foundation that all of Christianity is built on? Yes. So if somebody comes to you and says, well wait a minute, is it Peter's faith or is it Peter the human? You would be justified in saying yes. Not Peter the human because it's not Peter's church, it's Jesus's church. But if you do a full study of the book of Acts, Peter was used by Jesus to bring the gospel to the Samaritans, to the Greeks, and to the Jews. So I believe that while Peter was used, the most important words in the verse are the I and the my. It's always been Jesus's church and it's always been him who builds his church. Because here's the problem, if it's Peter the human who builds the church, how does the church grow today? Now you got to start inventing some sort of like eternal Peterness or you've got to start inventing that Peter didn't die. Like you realize the theological hoops you're gonna have to jump if we put all of our trust in Peter instead of in Jesus. Jesus is God incarnate, Jesus is eternal, Jesus is the resurrected Son of God. Peter was a human being chosen and used by God in powerful mighty ways. I totally agree with you. But there's no world in which you can make Peter equal to the Son of God. So when he says here and I tell you you are Petras and on this Petra I will build my church. It is true that Peter's faith statement is the foundation of the church and it is also true that Peter was used to bring the gospel to the three primary people groups and now we take the biggest part and the gates of Hades will not overcome it. I cannot tell you the number of times that I have heard this verse preached and we jump right to the gates of Hades must mean Satan, it must mean demonic influence, it must mean demonic opposition to the Christian Church. That sounds super cool for you and me today. That would not have been Peter's understanding of what Jesus was saying and that's why we do the big Bible story. That's why we have to go back the very first question we must always ask ourselves before asking what the Bible means to me is what did it mean to who Jesus was talking to? What did Peter know about the term the gates of Hades? And here's what I can tell you the gates of Hades is a term it's a phrase for death. Now why would it be important for Peter and the early disciples during the earthly ministry of Jesus to understand, just let me swap it out and now I want you to hear the sentence and I tell you that you are Peter and on this rock I will build my church and death itself will not overcome it. That makes a huge difference in the way that hits. That hits way different. Why? Because Jesus is prefiguring his resurrection that my church will be the everlasting community of God that will go beyond death, that will go beyond hell and will be the everlasting community that fulfills your Old Testament expectations of the promised Messiah. He's saying all of that in the term gates of Hades but when we put our blinders on and we only think like 2024 Christians well gates of Hades, Hades means hell, hell means Satan. It must mean that Satan can't overcome the church. I know that Satan can't overcome the church because it's Jesus's church. I don't need him to say it again. He said it's my church I'm gonna build it. I'm pretty sure the Son of God is stronger than Satan. Gotcha. But when he says the gates of Hades will not overcome it, death itself will never stop the mission of Jesus Christ's church. That's why between AD 30 and AD 64 all of those Christians were willing to die. All of those Christians were willing to give their lives for the truth that Jesus is God, that he died on a cross and that he rose from the grave. Why? Because you can't kill me if my church goes beyond my death. You can't take the great Christian hope that we have that the rest of the world does not have is we outlive death itself. That's the power of this verse. Don't get distracted by the debate was Peter the first Pope? Is it on Peter as the human? Is it on Peter's mission? Those are the ancillary things. The biggest thing in this verse is Jesus's church. He's the one who builds it. He's the one who maintains it. By the way he's the one that rose from the grave so if he did we can too. That's the power of the Christian community. That's the power of the church and that's why we have to ground our faith on the resurrection of Jesus and not the New Testament. Just saying the apologist in me can't let that one go because I can tell you when I sit down I had coffee with it with a young man recently and he said to me he said listen I was raised in a home that believes in a God. I just can't go there with you man. Just science has made too many discoveries. Technology this, medical that and he's just like I just I just can't believe there's a God and I'm like okay let's go with that. Does not believing in a God really make a better explanation of the world we live in than believing in a God? And for about an hour and a half we delve deep into a lot of different issues. How do you explain the beginning of the universe? How do you explain life coming from non-life? How do you explain the development of of morality out of a Darwinian survival system? Like you've got a lot of big problems you're gonna deny God. The biggest one to me is how to explain the resurrection of Jesus. Why are we here? This is the biggest question no atheist wants to answer. Why are we still here? 2,000 1,998 years later if the resurrection was a lie? How did Christianity outlast the Greeks, the Romans, the Turks, the Ottomans, the Black Plague, smallpox, Ebola, COVID? How did we survive all of that if it's all based on a lie? Doesn't it seem more logical that for this weird faith that came out of Judaism but it's not quite Judaism that survived the Romans? Either there's an element of truth to it, there's an element of true witness to it, there's an element of real resurrection to it, or we're all just stupid. And I mean that in the most gentle loving beautiful way. I'd love to tell you that that young man fell on his knees and we all pray together. That just didn't happen. That coffee appointment wasn't about conversion. It was about planting seeds. It was about being the guy who's willing to answer questions and willing to have those tough conversations. And now I get another chance to buy him a coffee in a couple more weeks and we keep going. This is why we have to ground Christian community on a resurrected Jesus and not on a Bible. Don't get me wrong, I'm not insulting the Word of God. I love the Word of God. I love teaching the Word of God. I love studying the Word of God. But people can get saved even in countries where Christianity is illegal and they don't have a Bible because you can't stop the resurrection. You can't stop the church that can defeat death itself. You can't take away my hope. You can't take away my commitment. You can't take away my hope and that fear that overcomes death. Because if Jesus rose and he promised that I can do the same, come at me bro. What you got? You got nothing in this life that can overtake the King who can resurrect from the dead. And that's why if I get back to the original definition that we started with, Christian community is the tribe whose identity and mission is defined by the deity death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. So the only good question that I can possibly ask as we bring this in for a landing is are you a part of that tribe? If you and me at the coffee shop right now, it's just me and you. And I said listen, somebody asked me what does it mean to be a Christian? And man, I've been working in church for 20 years and I keep fine-tuning my answer to this question. Because it's a quintessentially important question. What does it mean to be a Christian? What is the heart of the gospel? Granted as an apologist my answer is gonna be a little different than a theologian. But here it is. If you believe that Jesus is God, that he died on the cross and he rose from the dead and because of these, he is the coming Savior King, that's enough. You don't have to understand all about theology. You don't have to pass a theology exam on the way into... There's no theology exam on the way into heaven. You know what it is? It's either I'm a part of his kingdom or I'm not. It's kind of an on and off moment. It's a light switch. It's not a great... There's no bell curve. We don't have to grade on scale. It's a simple question. Is Jesus God? Did he die on the cross? Did he rise? And does that mean he's the coming Savior King? And then you're gonna ask me, well pastor, what about sin? What about salvation? I would submit to you and here I'm gonna offend everybody. Ready? That's how salvation works. Not that salvation works. The thief on the cross did not have to explain how original sin and the blood payment of Jesus on the cross undid sin. He did not explain any of that. All he had to do was place his faith in Christ. And he's an arisen Christ. Because the thief on the cross said, when you come into your kingdom, the thief on the cross understood that Jesus would outlive his mortal life. He referred to resurrection even without saying it in such terms like you and I could today. Because again, we have 2,000 years worth of theology to work from. So here's my question. Whether you are here in our sanctuary or you're watching this message online, can you say yes that because of the deity death and resurrection that Jesus is the coming Savior King? If you can say yes to that simple sentence, then that means you have the faith to be a Christian. If you cannot say yes to that simple sentence, then that means you get to buy me a coffee and I get to answer your questions. That's what that means.