how to study the bible
from
The Bible is a collection of 66 books, written at different times, in different places, to different audiences. In order
to study the Bible, a student must first seek to understand what the original author wrote to the original audience.
Only then can the student explore how the original interpretation may apply today. Here is a simple four-step
method for studying the Bible. The “S.O.I.L. Method” stands for selection, observation, interpretation, and life
application. One simple mistake to avoid is moving too fast. The Bible is a rich and deep book, and you won’t be able
to take it all in at once. Here’s a rough breakdown of how much time to allocate to each step in the process:
10% - SELECTION, 50% - OBSERVATION, 30% - IN TERPRETATION, 10% - LIFE APPLICATION
1: SELECT THE TEX T
The goal of this step is to learn as much as possbile about
the selected text for study. This means focusing on the text
as the object. What can we discover about the selected
text as a whole? Here are some example questions:
1. Who was the original author of this text?
2: OBSERVE THE TEX T
2. Who was the original audience?
3. Where does this text fit into the whole Bible’s story?
The goal of this step is to interrogate the text and look for
4. What comes before and after the text?
the ‘who,’ ‘where,’ ‘when,’ and ‘what’ details. This step is all
5. When did the events of this text take place?
about “seeing” what is there. Don’t try to make sense of it
6. What is the literary genre of the text?
yet, just look and see what you can find. Here are some
example questions:
1. Who?
a. a single name: David, Abraham, Peter
b. a people group: Jews, Gentiles, Eyptians
c. an implied group: everyone, angels, soldiers
d. a peron’s title: pharaoh, pharisee, servant
3: IN TERPRET THE TEX T
2. Where?
a. city/country: Jerusalem, Judea, Canaan, Rome
The goal of this step is to focus on making sense of the
b. location: upper room, Jordan river, Temple
observations from step two. Now that you have a list of
observations you’ve “seen,” we need to begin to understand
3. When?
what these observations mean. Here are some example
a. a time: 9 in the morning, the 6th hour
questions:
b. festivals: pentecost, sabbath, passover
c. implied time: next day, evening, immediately
1. Literary Questions:
d. event time: when he heard, after saying
a. Are there key words, terms, or themes?
b. Does the original language reveal anyting?
4. What?
c. Are there words used elsewhere in the Bible?
a. objects: sheep, bread, stones, water
b. actions: sat down, taught, baptized, fought
2. Historical Questions:
c. Themes: prayer, forgiveness, sin, grace
a. When did this passage take place?
b. Where did this passage take place
c. What is the political landscape at the time?
d. Where is this passage in the big Bible story?
3. Theological Questions:
4: APPLY THE TEX T
a. What does this passage teach about God?
b. What does this passage teach salvation?
The goal of this final step to ask how the text could
c. What does this passage teach about man?
apply to one’s personal life. This is the only step that
d. What does this passage teach about the Church?
has the ‘modern’ perspective in view. Here are some
example questions:
1. How can this passage apply to my life today?
2. What principles in the text can apply to modern life?
3. Does the passage teach anything for the Church?
4. Does the passage touch any social issues today?
5. Can I share encouragement from this passage?
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.