What does it mean to be "saved by faith"?
Monday, August 19, 2024 10:06 AM
Today's BIG Question:
What does it mean to be "saved by faith?"
How does salvation work?
Christianity hinges on the claim that salvation is found in Christ
alone. The means by which we are saved is "by faith". But what
exactly does this mean?
History:
The concept "salvation by faith alone" comes from the
reformation period.
"Sola Fide" literally means "by faith alone" and was meant to
point out that salvation is not earned by any human work
Defining the Terms:
Salvation: is rescue from a state of danger and restoration to
wholeness, safety, victory, etc.
Salvation has two parts: rescue & restoration
Faith: is trust in and commitment to Christ
Faith has two parts: trust & commitment
Big Questions Page 1

So when we combine these ideas we get this:
"Salvation by faith" means being rescued and restored by
Jesus on the basis of our trust and commitment to Him.
Scripture:
Genesis 15:6
6 Abram believed the LORD, and he credited it to him as
righteousness.
Psalm 20:7
7 Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we trust in the
name of the LORD our God.
Matthew 8:10
10 When Jesus heard this, he was amazed and said to those
following him, “Truly I tell you, I have not found anyone in Israel
with such great faith.
Acts 3:16
16 By faith in the name of Jesus, this man whom you see and
know was made strong. It is Jesus’ name and the faith that
comes through him that has completely healed him, as you can
all see.
Romans 3:21–25
21 But now apart from the law the righteousness of God has
Big Questions Page 2

21 But now apart from the law the righteousness of God has
been made known, to which the Law and the Prophets testify.
Apart from the Law - law shows us our sin
Righteousness of God - bring found righteous in his sight
22 This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all
who believe. There is no difference between Jew and Gentile,
Given through faith - faith is the MEANS of obtaining
righteousness
23 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
All have sinned - Adam's "original sin" infected all of
humanity
24 and all are justified freely by his grace through the
redemption that came by Christ Jesus.
Redemption… by Jesus Christ - Christ's sacrifice is ABLE to
save all humans, but faith is the required means by which it
is applied
25a God presented Christ as a sacrifice of atonement, through
the shedding of his blood—to be received by faith.
Christ as a sacrifice - Christ paid the penalty
Received by faith - we receive this payment through faith
Big Questions Page 3

But WHY?
WHY does salvation work?
In Eden, the first sin was not eating the fruit, it was not listening
to the temptation of the enemy, it was NOT TRUSTING GOD.
Disobedience was the outcome of distrust!
Adam and Eve's disobeyed God because they stopped trusting
Him.
This is why the salvation is found in TRUST!
Salvation by faith is the reversal of the fall at Eden.
When we TRUST God, we are reversing the mistake made by
our ancestors all those years ago and choosing to TRUST and
COMMIT to God's ways.
Big Questions Page 4

What does it mean to live a "Christian Lifestyle"?
Monday, August 19, 2024 10:07 AM
Today's BIG Question:
What does it mean to live a "Christian lifestyle?"
How should I live now that I'm saved?
The Foundation: We should be different than before.
2 Corinthians 5:14–15
14 For Christ’s love compels us, because we are convinced that
one died for all, and therefore all died.
15 And he died for all, that those who live should no longer live
for themselves but for him who died for them and was raised
again.
The Expectation: We should be holy in the way we live.
Leviticus 20:26
26 You are to be holy to me because I, the Lord, am holy, and I
have set you apart from the nations to be my own.
You are to be - this is God's expectation of us
Holy - means to be "set apart" for a different purpose
Because I…am - God's holiness is our motivation
Set you apart - God is the one who makes us holy
Big Questions Page 5

Set you apart - God is the one who makes us holy
To be my own - God's purpose is to make us His own
1 Peter 1:15
15 But just as he who called you is holy, so be holy in all you do
Just as he called - holiness is rooted in God's nature
Called you - God's action makes us holy
So be holy - our responsibility because of God's call
In all you do - there is no room for "selfish" in holy
"Godliness is our lifestyle
response to His holiness."
The Function:
Live for Christ, not for the world or for self
Colossians 2:20–3:17
1: Live FREE from the "rule" of his world
20 Since you died with Christ to the elemental spiritual forces of
this world, why, as though you still belonged to the world, do
you submit to its rules:
Died with Christ - we are dead to sin because Christ died
Still belonged to the world - we don't belong here anymore
Big Questions Page 6

Still belonged to the world - we don't belong here anymore
21 “Do not handle! Do not taste! Do not touch!”?
Do not - these are the world's rules that don't apply to us
anymore
22 These rules, which have to do with things that are all
destined to perish with use, are based on merely human
commands and teachings.
Based on human teachings - the world's authority is only
HUMAN based. The Kingdom is based on God's authority
23 Such regulations indeed have an appearance of wisdom,
with their self-imposed worship, their false humility and their
harsh treatment of the body, but they lack any value in
restraining sensual indulgence.
The appearance of wisdom - appearance is just that; it
looks like it, but isn't the genuine article
Lack any value - this the actual metric we should use
2: Reset our thinking to heaven's perspective
1 Since, then, you have been raised with Christ, set your hearts
on things above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of
God.
Big Questions Page 7

God.
Raised with Christ - our "resurrection" is to a new life
Set your hearts - this is the focus of our new life in Christ
2 Set your minds on things above, not on earthly things.
Set your minds - your thoughts drive your life
3 For you died, and your life is now hidden with Christ in God.
Hidden with Christ - safely concealed in Christ; it is now
Christ we represent, not ourselves
4 When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will
appear with him in glory.
Will also appear with Him - this is our future
3: Stop sin-based activity
5 Put to death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly
nature: sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires and greed,
which is idolatry.
Therefore - because we (a) died to sin, and (b) are raised
with Christ, we now must live differently.
Big Questions Page 8

with Christ, we now must live differently.
Earthly nature - our selfish state
6 Because of these, the wrath of God is coming.
Wrath is coming - sin will be judged; this is coming
7 You used to walk in these ways, in the life you once lived.
You once lived - our post-Jesus lifestyle is a NEW LIFE
8 But now you must also rid yourselves of all such things as
these: anger, rage, malice, slander, and filthy language from
your lips.
Rid yourselves - this is a process, not a moment
9 Do not lie to each other, since you have taken off your old self
with its practices
Old self practices - the "old practices" are from the "old
self" the "new practices" are in the "new self"
4: Start living as a reflection of Christ
10 and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in
knowledge in the image of its Creator.
Big Questions Page 9

knowledge in the image of its Creator.
Being renewed - this is the process of becoming like Christ
Image of its Creator - Jesus is the goal of our character and
actions
11 Here there is no Gentile or Jew, circumcised or
uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave or free, but Christ is
all, and is in all.
There is no - our human divisions don't matter in Christ
12 Therefore, as God’s chosen people, holy and dearly loved,
clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility,
gentleness and patience.
Therefore - another argument
As God's chosen people - this is the condition, the reason
Clothe yourselves with - this is the outcome, the action
13 Bear with each other and forgive one another if any of you
has a grievance against someone. Forgive as the Lord forgave
you.
Bear with each other - this is the second outcome
Forgive - this is a third outcome
Big Questions Page 10

Forgive - this is a third outcome
14 And over all these virtues put on love, which binds them all
together in perfect unity.
Put on love - this is the "glue" that holds our character
together. Without this, the rest of the actions are not right
15 Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, since as members
of one body you were called to peace. And be thankful.
Let peace… rule in your hearts - this is an expectation of
those who are in Christ, peace in your heart
16 Let the message of Christ dwell among you richly as you
teach and admonish one another with all wisdom through
psalms, hymns, and songs from the Spirit, singing to God with
gratitude in your hearts.
The message of Christ - redemption in Him alone
Dwell among you - our lives in relationship are the
embodiment of the gospel message
Singing to God - worship is a necessary part of the Christian
life
17 And whatever you do, whether in word or deed, do it all in
the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father
through him.
Big Questions Page 11

through him.
Whatever you do - this covers the whole of our lives
The Takeaway:
God expects His people to live "set apart" for Him. We do this
by leaving our old ways behind and live as reflections and
representatives of Christ.
Big Questions Page 12