the big bible story
from
The Bible is a collection of 66 books, written at different times, in different places, to different audiences. But,
the Bible is also the Word of God, and we can see this in the fact that despite the different time periods, people
groups, and history that take place on the pages of Scripture, the Bible tells one big story from beginning to
end. Each book of the Bible is a part of the story, but it’s only when we “zoom out” and look at the whole Bible
we can see the big picture. Here is a simple four-part overview of the Big Bible Story: creation, corruption,
redemption, and restoration.
1: CREATION
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth
(Genesis 1:1). The story of the Bible begins with a powerful
Creator who made our world in six days. He creates
different parts of our planet each day, noting that each
2: CORRUP TION
day is ‘good’ (Genesis 1:10, 12, 18, 21, 25). On the sixth day,
God creates humanity, stating that now creation is “very
In the middle of the Garden of Eden, God placed two trees:
good” (Genesis 1:31). God then creates a garden at a place
the Tree of Life and the Tree of the Knowledge of Good
called Eden where He walks and talks with Adam and
and Evil. God instructed humanity not to eat of the second
Eve (Genesis 2:8, 3:8).
tree. Death would be the consequence if they chose to
step outside God’s design (Genesis 3:2). Unfortunately,
Main Idea: Humanity was created to live in relationship
Adam and Eve both ate from the forbidden tree. This
with God in His “very good” creation.
choice of their own desires over God’s design was the
first human sin and had serious consequences (Genesis
3:12-19). Because of this choice, humanity and the devil
are at war, childbearing and marriage are more difficult,
and humans have to toil to grow food. Additionally, the
death of a sinless human would be required as payment
for this choice.
Main Idea: The world we live in today is a corruption of
3: REDEMP TION
God’s original design. Creation needs to be redeemed.
The redemption price for the original human sin which
corrupted creation is the death of a sinless human being.
Unfortunately, now that sin has infected creation, all
humans born naturally automatically inherit the addiction
4: RESTORATION
to choosing their own desires over God’s design (John
3:3, Psalm 51:5). This is why God sent His own Son to
Because of the death and resurrection of Jesus, those
be born miraculously and sinlessly. Jesus, the Son of
who place their faith in Him can be forgiven of sin and
God, became incarnate as a sinless human being in
restored to right relationship with God (John 3:16).
order to give His life as payment for the original sin of
However, creation is still corrupt and must also be
disobedience in the Garden of Eden (John 1:14, Romans
restored. This is what happens in the book of Revelation.
5:12). Jesus had to die to purchase forgiveness from sin
In the final chapters of Revelation, the big story of the
for us.
Bible ends with the restoration of creation (Revelation
21:1-4). Humanity is once again free to live in relationship
Main Idea: Jesus had to die as a sinless human being
with the Creator in a restored, sinless creation that will
to pay the penalty for the original sin in Eden.
be “very good.” The restoration of creation will not happen
until the return of Christ and the events detailed in the
book of Revelation.
Main Idea: While Jesus has already purchased
forgiveness for sin, creation is still waiting for full
redemption and a return to an Eden-like state.
WHY JESUS?
Jesus is the only person who: (a) lived a sinless human life, (b) died as payment for human
sin, and (c) rose from the dead proving He is God. This is why salvation can only be found
in the name of Jesus. All who repent and trust in Him will be saved (John 3:16).
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.