Outline
Monday, May 12, 2025 9:24 AM
Outline:
1:1-1:12 - trials
1:13-27 - temptation
2:1-2:13 - favoritism
2:14-2:26 - faith/works
3:1-3:12 - the tongue
3:13-4:3 - two wisdoms
4:4-4:17 - ?
5:1-5:12 - faith in suffering
5:13-5:20 - prayer of faith
Book of James Page 1

1:1-12 - The Method of Maturity
Monday, May 12, 2025 9:58 AM
Key Thought:
From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the
book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the
real world.
BIG BIBLE STORY!!
Background on James
4 Possible Authors:
1: James, the brother of the Apostle John
not likely, martyred before this letter was written
2: James, the son of Alphaeus
Not likely, he was not a leader or important figure in the
early church, so not likely to be the author. The only who
defend this authorship are Roman Catholics who argue for
Mary's "perpetual virginity" and have to disregard Mary
having other children
3: James, the father of Judas (not Iscariot)
Not likely, he was not a leader or important figure in the
early church, so not likely to be the author
4: James, the half-brother of Jesus
Most likely candidate as the child of Mary and Joseph the
carpenter. Did not place faith in Jesus until after the
Book of James Page 2

carpenter. Did not place faith in Jesus until after the
resurrection. Became a prominent leader in the church in
Jerusalem.
When did James write the letter?
The writing of the book of James can be estimated using a few
key dates from the first century church.
Before AD62, if the half-brother of Jesus wrote the book, he
died in AD62. The letter would have had to be written before
that.
Before AD49, there is no mention of the Jewish/Gentile
controversy or any Pauline epistle
After AD34 - If the "diaspora" audience mentioned in 1:1, then
this could link to the persecution mentioned in Acts 8:1
The Book of James was written between AD35 and AD45
This would make it THE FIRST of the New Testament letter to
be written!
Who did James write to?
James is written to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom
were Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman
empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
The Method of Maturity
James 1:1 - 1:12
Book of James Page 3

James 1:1 - 1:12
General Epistle
Unlike Paul's letters to specific churches, the book of James is
more of a general letter. It deal with
1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the
twelve tribes scattered among the nations: Greetings.
James - the half-brother of Jesus
Servant of God - lit. slave or bond-servant; this term
highlights both "willing submission" and ownership, thru
the "purchase" of salvation, Christians both "belong" to
Christ and are "committed" to Him
Lord Jesus Christ - /KU-rios/ Lord, Master, One who hold
authority over another
Twelve Tribes scattered - This refers to the Jewish
perspective of being God's people scattered throughout a
gentile world. This concept was brought with them into the
Church and can also apply to faithful Christians living in a
non-Christ-centered world.
The audience is faithful believers
scattered in pagan lands
A: Trials SHOULD produce MATURITY (1:2-4)
Book of James Page 4

A: Trials SHOULD produce MATURITY (1:2-4)
2 Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters, whenever you
face trials of many kinds,
Consider - to reckon/regard; to view or understand as
Pure joy - lit. "all joy" a reason for gladness / state of
rejoicing
Brothers and sisters - 'adelphos' lit. "brother" but not
limited to males; the overarching word for believers
Face trials - experience "temptation or test"; that which
reveals the true nature of something
Trial is external; temptation is internal
Many kinds - lit. various or diversified
We are not encouraged to look AT trials with joy, but rather to
find joy IN THEM!
3 because you know that the testing of your faith produces
perseverance.
Know - to recognize or be aware
Testing - proved genuine-ness
Faith - /PEE-stees/ a state of certainty; believe to complete
Book of James Page 5

Faith - /PEE-stees/ a state of certainty; believe to complete
trust
Perseverance - endurance; patience; steadfastness; aka, the
ability to "hold on" but things get tough
4 Let perseverance finish its work so that you may be mature
and complete, not lacking anything.
Perseverance - same as above
Finish - /TEL-ios/ to mature or perfected
Work - lit. work or deed
Be mature - /TEL-ios/ to be mature or perfected
Not lacking - not "falling short" or lacking in anything
Mature -
B: Wisdom is GRANTED to those who TRUST and don't DOUBT
(1:5-8)
5 If any of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God, who gives
generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to
you.
Lacks - to "fall short or lack"
Wisdom - lit. /sophia/ wisdom, prudence, discretion, the
ability to understand and act wisely
Book of James Page 6

ability to understand and act wisely
Ask God, who gives - lit. "ask from the God gives"
Generously - without holding back
To all - any, total, complete, the whole
Without finding fault - [no] reproach, insult, reprimand
6 But when you ask, you must believe and not doubt, because
the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed
by the wind.
Must believe - /PEE-stees/ a state of certainty; believe to
complete trust
Not doubt - /dia-KREENO/ to judge; to pass judgment on
Not understanding is different from not believing!
It's ok to trust and not understand.
Like a sea wave - a natural analogy that the first century
audience would have understood well; wind makes waves
7 That person should not expect to receive anything from the
Lord.
That person - the person who stands in their own
judgement instead of fully and completely trusting God
Book of James Page 7

Receive anything - in context, the wisdom asked for in
verse 5
8 Such a person is double-minded and unstable in all they do.
Double-minded - /DIP-sukos/ di - psychos; two minds
Unstable - their faith is uncontrolled; restless; unstable
C: All believers should root their HOPE in the NEXT LIFE
(1:9-12)
9 Believers in humble circumstances ought to take pride in their
high position.
Believers - /adelphos/ the primary audience
Humble circumstances - downhearted; downcast; lacking in
hope; lowly in status; the implication here is "low status" in
Roman society; not wealthy
High position - height; the world above; their status as
members of the Kingdom of God
10 But the rich should take pride in their humiliation—since they
will pass away like a wild flower.
But the rich - /PLU-see-os/ rich; wealthy; those who have in
abundance
Book of James Page 8

abundance
Humiliation - the act of humbling or bringing "lower"
11 For the sun rises with scorching heat and withers the plant;
its blossom falls and its beauty is destroyed. In the same way,
the rich will fade away even while they go about their business.
Pass away… wild flower… about their business - worldly
wealth will quickly fade and be meaningless, like the petals
of a flower in the sun; therefore, it's not important and
shouldn't be the focus of life
12 Blessed is the one who perseveres under trial because,
having stood the test, that person will receive the crown of life
that the Lord has promised to those who love him.
Blessed - lit. happy or fortunate
One who perseveres - the one who stands; remains; stays
true/faithful
Under trial - in the "testing" that proves genuine-ness (v3)
Crown - a wreath woven and worn by those who are
victorious in Greek games; modern Olympic games still
include olive wreaths or wreath imagery
Of life… promised - the reward of eternal life in the
Kingdom given at the end of this life.
Book of James Page 9

The Takeaway:
Maturing in the Christian faith happens when we respond to
testing with wisdom and hope.
Discussion Questions:
In what ways have past trials helped you grow in your faith or
character?
How do trust and wisdom work together when facing trials in
your life?
How does holding an eternal perspective influence the way we
view/use wealth in this life?
Book of James Page 10

01:13-27 The Truth About Temptation
Monday, May 19, 2025 12:26 PM
Key Thought:
From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the
book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the
real world.
BIG BIBLE STORY
Background on James
4 Possible Authors
James, the half-brother of Jesus
This James is the most likely candidate as the child of Mary and
Joseph the carpenter. Did not place faith in Jesus until after the
resurrection. Became a prominent leader in the church in
Jerusalem.
When did James write the letter?
The Book of James was written between AD35 and AD45. This
would make it THE FIRST of the New Testament letter to be
written!
Who did James write to?
James is written to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom
were Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman
empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
Book of James Page 11

empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the
twelve tribes scattered among the nations: Greetings.
The audience is FAITHFUL believers
SCATTERED in pagan lands
The Truth About Temptation
James 1:13 - 1:27
[not disconnected. These verses connect to the focus of the
previous section, the testing of faith]
A: The ROOT, Result, and REMEDY of Temptation
13 When tempted, no one should say, “God is tempting me.”
For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone;
Tempted - /pee-ah-RAHZ-oh/ lit. to test; to ascertain the
true nature of a thing.
Tempted by evil - the connotation is "testing" by evil
offering
God does NOT use evil to make us stronger!
14 but each person is tempted when they are dragged away by
their own evil desire and enticed.
Book of James Page 12

their own evil desire and enticed.
Is tempted - /pee-ah-RAHZ-oh/ lit. to test; to ascertain the
true nature of a thing.
Dragged away - lured or drawn away from a place of safety
Their own evil - humans have a sin nature; God doesn't
need to offer us evil, we do it all on our own. ROOT
Desire - lit. lust or craving for (internal cause)
Enticed - luring with evil intention; treachery
15 Then, after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin; and
sin, when it is full-grown, gives birth to death.
Desire - lit. lust or craving for (internal cause)
Conceived/birth/death - James uses the analogy of
birth/life/death to represent the relationship from desire to
sin to death. RESULT
In the same way that biological conception leads to
another mature life capable of reproduction; the
automatic outcome of desire is always sin which always
leads to death.
16 Don’t be deceived, my dear brothers and sisters.
Deceived - led astray; this is about the nature of the
Book of James Page 13

Deceived - led astray; this is about the nature of the
relationship between desire>sin>death.
In the same way that the right response to trial will lead to
growth and ultimately maturity; the wrong response to desire
will lead to sin and ultimately death.
Brothers and sisters - adelphos
17 Every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down
from the Father of the heavenly lights, who does not change like
shifting shadows.
Perfect gift - /tel-EE-os/ same word as 'mature' from 1:4
Of the heavenly lights - a reference to God's creation of the
universe in Gen 1:14-16
Who does not change - a reference to God's immutability
or His un-changing nature; we can trust that God will not
change and will continue to gift good gifts
18 He chose to give us birth through the word of truth, that we
might be a kind of firstfruits of all he created.
Birth - a reference to "born again" or the new life we are
given in Christ as believers (John 4) REMEDY
Word of truth - a veiled reference to Jesus through whom
comes the "new life"
Book of James Page 14

Firstfruits - the 'first taste' of a harvest. That which is most
prized because it is given first
B: The WRONG Response to Temptation
19 My dear brothers and sisters, take note of this: Everyone
should be quick to listen, slow to speak and slow to become
angry,
Brothers and sisters - adelphos; diaspora believers
This three-part instruction is given in the context of response
to a trial. It is not a standalone maxim.
Quick to Listen - quick to listen / hear God
Slow to speak - restrain the tongues response
Slow to anger - anger doesn't produce fruit
20 because human anger does not produce the righteousness
that God desires.
Because - the outcome of the three part instruction in the
previous verse
Human anger - tempts us to ignore the three instructions
Righteousness - the right actions of being in relationship
with God
Book of James Page 15

with God
The right response to temptation and trial is restraint. We
should restrain our initial reactions.
C: The RIGHT Response to Temptation
21 Therefore, get rid of all moral filth and the evil that is so
prevalent and humbly accept the word planted in you, which
can save you.
Therefore - for this reason; because
Get rid of - to take off or lay aside (as in dirty clothes)
Moral filth - the 'stain' sin leaves on us that has no place on
the 'new clothes' of our new life in Christ
22 Do not merely listen to the word, and so deceive yourselves.
Do what it says.
Not merely - lit. don't "only" listen
Word - ie. the message or the Scriptures
Do what it says - obedience is an action, not a condition
Temptation is defeated by obedience.
Book of James Page 16

23 Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says
is like someone who looks at his face in a mirror
Face in a mirror - the proverbial 'mirror' in this verse is the
Word of God. There is an expectation that our 'seeing' in
the Word will produce 'doing' in our lifestyle
24 and, after looking at himself, goes away and immediately
forgets what he looks like.
Immediately forgets - forgets what the Word tells us we are
or how we are to act
25 But whoever looks intently into the perfect law that gives
freedom, and continues in it—not forgetting what they have
heard, but doing it—they will be blessed in what they do.
Looks intently - involves time and focus
Perfect law - /tel-EE-os/ same word as 'perfect gift' in 1:17;
the perfect, mature, and complete Law that gives freedom
is the Word of God.
Not forgetting, but doing it - two different reasons are
given here: (a) not remembering & (b) not doing
26 Those who consider themselves religious and yet do not keep
a tight rein on their tongues deceive themselves, and their
religion is worthless.
Book of James Page 17

religion is worthless.
Consider… religious - to think oneself righteous in God's
sight
Rein - lit. exercise self-control; to rein in like a bit in a
horse's mouth
Religion - acts of devotion to a god; worship
Worthless - fruitless, empty, useless; ie, this set of beliefs
and religious practices will not yield anything
27 Religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless is
this: to look after orphans and widows in their distress and to
keep oneself from being polluted by the world.
Religion - same word as v26; acts of devotion; worship
Pure - physically clean; ie, clean of any stain
Faultless - undefiled; without moral fault
Orphans and widows - those unable to care for themselves
Polluted - lit. morally pure; unblemished character
The Takeaway:
Christians can overcome temptation by restraining initial
reactions and choosing obedience over desire.
Book of James Page 18

Discussion Questions:
How does understanding the root and result of temptation help
you to overcome it?
How can responding wrongly to temptation make a situation
worse?
What helps you to choose obedience over desire when
temptation strikes?
Book of James Page 19

02:1-13 - The Danger of Discrimination
Monday, May 26, 2025 1:31 PM
Key Thought:
From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the
book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the
real world.
BIG BIBLE STORY
Background on James
4 Possible Authors
James, the half-brother of Jesus
This James is the most likely candidate as the child of Mary and
Joseph the carpenter. Did not place faith in Jesus until after the
resurrection. Became a prominent leader in the church in
Jerusalem.
When did James write the letter?
The Book of James was written between AD35 and AD45. This
would make it THE FIRST of the New Testament letter to be
written!
Who did James write to?
James is written to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom
were Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman
Book of James Page 20

were Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman
empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the
twelve tribes scattered among the nations: Greetings.
The audience is FAITHFUL believers
SCATTERED in pagan lands
The Danger of Discrimination
James 2:1–13
A: FAVORITISM is forbidden for ALL believers.
1 My brothers and sisters, believers in our glorious Lord Jesus
Christ must not show favoritism.
Brothers and sisters - Adelphos; audience from 1:1
Believers - lit. "the trusters" or "those who trust"
Lord - /KUR-ee-os/ one who has authority over
Jesus Christ - lit. "Joshua the Anointed One"
Favoritism - lit. "partiality"; favoring a person or group
based on preference
In the Kingdom of Christ, we are all servants and only He is
King!
Book of James Page 21

King!
Showing favoritism in the Church violates our mutual position
as fellow servants and challenges His singular position as the
glorious King.
This is why it must be forbidden.
B: Favoritism is EVIL and PRIDEFUL
2 Suppose a man comes into your meeting wearing a gold ring
and fine clothes, and a poor man in filthy old clothes also comes
in.
Suppose a man - this is an example scenario
To your meeting - a public gathering/meeting of the early
church
Gold ring / fine clothes - a person of wealth
Poor man / filthy clothes - a person of need
3 If you show special attention to the man wearing fine clothes
and say, “Here’s a good seat for you,” but say to the poor man,
“You stand there” or “Sit on the floor by my feet,”
Show special attention - "to look favorably upon"
Here's a good seat - a special action based on special
Book of James Page 22

Here's a good seat - a special action based on special
attention
Sit on the floor - a 'lesser' action based on 'lesser' attention
4 have you not discriminated among yourselves and become
judges with evil thoughts?
Discriminated - lit. "to judge" in effect "to mark something
as different from something else"
Among yourselves - 2nd person pronoun for a group; Y'ALL
Become judges - same root as 'discriminated'' ; the person
appointed by an authority to make the "distinction"
Setting standards of how believers should be judged assumes
and authority and position that we do not have!
C: The KINGDOM should not look like the WORLD
5 Listen, my dear brothers and sisters: Has not God chosen
those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith
and to inherit the kingdom he promised those who love him?
Listen - James add emphasis to his directive
My dear - special, beloved, only one of a class
Book of James Page 23

My dear - special, beloved, only one of a class
Brothers and sisters - Adelphos; audience from 1:1
Poor… to be rich - the wealthy rely on money; those "poor"
in money have the opportunity to be "wealthy" in faith
because they can't just buy their solutions
Inherit the Kingdom - faithful believers will receive
authority in the world to come
The Kingdom of God is the GOAL of creation. We are waiting in
the process of redemption and restoration for an un-corrupted
Kingdom to exist.
6 But you have dishonored the poor. Is it not the rich who are
exploiting you? Are they not the ones who are dragging you into
court?
Dishonored - lit. "dishonor / same"; you cannot show
favoritism to one group without shaming or insulting
another group
The poor - those in the church who have less financial
means
These three examples illustrate the difference between first
century Roman society and the expectation of how Christians
should treat one another.
The rich… exploiting you - "to oppress or exploit"; to take
Book of James Page 24

The rich… exploiting you - "to oppress or exploit"; to take
advantage of another for one's own benefit
The rich… dragging you into court - In Rome, the wealthy
could buy the justice they wanted. Roman courts were
corrupt
7 Are they not the ones who are blaspheming the noble name of
him to whom you belong?
They… blaspheming… the name - "to revile; to slander"
Noble name - the name of Jesus is noble because He is King
& Lord
Whom you belong - Christians root their identity in the
person of Christ. To slander His name is to slander our
identity
D: The ROYAL law REMAINS in effect
8 If you really keep the royal law found in Scripture, “Love your
neighbor as yourself,” you are doing right.
The "royal law" - because the law comes from God the
King of Israel; Jesus as the King of Kings establishes the law
with His authority for His people
Love your neighbor as yourself - from Leviticus 19:18
Book of James Page 25

Love your neighbor as yourself - from Leviticus 19:18
You are doing right - this is the moral expectation of the OT
& NT
E: Favoritism is SIN
9 But if you show favoritism, you sin and are convicted by the
law as lawbreakers.
Favoritism - same word as 2:1
Convicted by the law - "do not show favoritism" Lev 19:15
10 For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at just
one point is guilty of breaking all of it.
Keep the law - obeys the OT covenant
Just one point - obedience is not a piece-meal endeavor
11 For he who said, “You shall not commit adultery,” also said,
“You shall not murder.” If you do not commit adultery but do
commit murder, you have become a lawbreaker.
Adultery / murder - James is equating favoritism with
adultery and murder
12 Speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the
Book of James Page 26

12 Speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the
law that gives freedom,
Speak and act - the two actions are linked; lip service is not
enough
Law that gives freedom - we are freed from sin ie, 1:25
Christians should speak and act out of the forgiveness
received in Christ. THIS is where the freedom comes from!
13 because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone
who has not been merciful. Mercy triumphs over judgment.
Judgement - this cannot be "heaven or hell" judgement
because the audience first century Christians. This is the
"life book" judgement to come, not Christians going to hell.
The Takeaway:
Favoritism is sinful and has no place in the Church because
believers are equal and Jesus is King.
Discussion Questions:
In what ways does favoritism show up in the Church today?
How is assuming the position of "evil judge" over others
spiritually dangerous?
Why is it so challenging to keep the world's standards out of
Book of James Page 27

Why is it so challenging to keep the world's standards out of
the church?
Book of James Page 28

02:14-26 - The Witness of Works
Wednesday, June 4, 2025 3:15 PM
Key Thought:
From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the
book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the
real world.
BIG BIBLE STORY
Background on James
4 Possible Authors
James, the half-brother of Jesus
This James is the most likely candidate as the child of Mary and
Joseph the carpenter. Did not place faith in Jesus until after the
resurrection. Became a prominent leader in the church in
Jerusalem.
When did James write the letter?
The Book of James was written between AD35 and AD45. This
would make it THE FIRST of the New Testament letter to be
written!
Who did James write to?
James is written to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom
were Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman
empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
Book of James Page 29

empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the
twelve tribes scattered among the nations: Greetings.
The audience is FAITHFUL believers
SCATTERED in pagan lands
The Witness of Works
James 2:14–26
A: Good works FLOW from FAITH
James 2:14
14 What good is it, my brothers and sisters, if someone claims
to have faith but has no deeds? Can such faith save them?
What good is it - lit. what good, benefit, or advantage
Brothers and sisters - adelphoi (believers)
Claims to have faith - to say or to tell; to make a claim with
no available evidence for support
Faith - to trust, to believe; same word as:
1:3 - testing of your "faith"
1:6 - when you ask you must "believe"
2:1 - "believers" in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ
But has not deeds - action, deed, behavior
Can such faith save him? - the question begs a negative
Book of James Page 30

Can such faith save him? - the question begs a negative
response; "no, of course it doesn't"
How does this not conflict with salvation by faith?
What we hear:
"Faith without works doesn't save from sin."
"Faith + Works = Salvation."
Why?:
1: Our culture doesn't believe in a free lunch.
2: Our language equates "save" with salvation.
3: Our theology is focused on justification.
4: Our practice is to bypass the verse's context.
What's the context?
James is writing to BELIEVERS about maturity, temptation, and
sin; the practical nature of faith lived out.
The judgement in the preceding verse is the BEMA not the
Great White Throne. Believers aren't at risk of hell.
What's the word "save" really mean?
The word "save" in v14 is in the context of the BEMA
judgement of verse 13!
The "save" in verse 14 is linked to the "mercy" of verse 13 to
be experienced by the believer at the final "life book"
evaluation of their life by King Jesus before eternity!
Book of James Page 31

B: The TALKER
James 2:15-17
15 Suppose a brother or a sister is without clothes and daily
food.
Suppose - an example of a need to respond to
Brother or sister - adelphos; a fellow believer
Without clothes and food - a practical need; an opportunity
for mercy
16 If one of you says to them, “Go in peace; keep warm and well
fed,” but does nothing about their physical needs, what good is
it?
One of you - response to the needy person from v15
Says to them - same as "claim" in v14
Does nothing - all words but no actions
What good is it - same question as v14
17 In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by
action, is dead.
In the same way - the analogy is applied to the believer
Book of James Page 32

In the same way - the analogy is applied to the believer
Faith by itself / not accompanied by action - this is the
baseless claim of faith
Is dead - as in useless; having no value
C: The TASKER
James 2:18
18 But someone will say, “You have faith; I have deeds.” Show
me your faith without deeds, and I will show you my faith by my
deeds.
But someone - this is a DIFFERENT example
I have deeds - this person admits they do the right thing,
but do not trust in Jesus. They are trying to "buy" their
salvation by good actions.
Show me your faith - this is James's correction
By my deeds - the difference is deeds done IN FAITH or IN
PLACE OF FAITH
D: The THINKER
James 2:19
19 You believe that there is one God. Good! Even the demons
believe that—and shudder.
Book of James Page 33

You… one God - this is ANOTHER correction. Jewish
believers would known the SHEMA and therefore thought
they were ok.
Even the demons believe - believing there is "one God"
WILL NOT SAVE! Faith in Jesus saves. Nothing less.
And shudder - the demons are going to Hell
E: The Old Testament EVIDENCE
James 2:20-26
20 You foolish person, do you want evidence that faith without
deeds is useless?
You fooling person - lit. "vain, empty, empty-handed"
Do you want evidence? - support for his argument
21 Was not our father Abraham considered righteous for what
he did when he offered his son Isaac on the altar?
Abraham - a HUGE example to his Jewish Christian audience
For what he did - the action came from his faith
The Mount Moriah context (Genesis 22:1-19)
1: Abraham was already in COVENANT relationship
2: Isaac was already the son of PROMISE
Book of James Page 34

2: Isaac was already the son of PROMISE
3: The future kingdom was THROUGH Isaac
4: Abraham had to ACTIVELY TRUST God's promise
1b: Believers are already in COVENANT relationship
2b: Jesus is our son of PROMISE
3b: Our future Kingdom is THROUGH Jesus
4b: We must ACTIVELY TRUST in Jesus
22 You see that his faith and his actions were working together,
and his faith was made complete by what he did.
Working together - lit. sinergeo /syn-er-GAY-oh/
Made complete - the final product of trust + action is the
completion of faith, ie maturity
23 And the scripture was fulfilled that says, “Abraham believed
God, and it was credited to him as righteousness,” and he was
called God’s friend.
Believed God - same root word as faith/trust
Credited to him - same root as "to say, tell, or claim"
Abraham is the opposite example of the person making a
baseless faith claim in v14 & v16
24 You see that a person is considered righteous by what they
do and not by faith alone.
Book of James Page 35

do and not by faith alone.
Considered righteous - Abraham is NOT SAVED at Mt
Moriah! Abraham's salvation happened in Genesis 17 when
He trusted in the Covenant of God and God Himself
guarantees the covenant.
Genesis 15 is JUSTIFICATION
Genesis 22 is SANCTIFICATION
25 In the same way, was not even Rahab the prostitute
considered righteous for what she did when she gave lodging to
the spies and sent them off in a different direction?
In the same way - another "evidence" of faith leading to
action
Rahab - her faith in God preceded her action of hiding the
spies
"I know the Lord has given you this land." Joshua 2:9
26 As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without deeds
is dead.
As the body - the body is "empty" without the spirit
So faith without - faith is "empty" without actions
Book of James Page 36

The Takeaway:
Good works do not establish salvation, they flow from it. Once
we are saved by faith, we then must live by it.
Discussion Questions:
1: Why do you think the balance of faith and works is such a
challenge for our culture?
2: When are we most tempted to be the "talker" and say things
that sound good but not actually do good things?
3: Why is so important to understand that believing in "one
god" is not the same as being a Christian believer?
Book of James Page 37

03:01-12 - The Wickedness of Words
Monday, June 9, 2025 12:34 PM
Key Thought:
From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the book of James addresses
faith as it is lived out day to day in the real world.
BIG BIBLE STORY
Background on James
4 Possible Authors
James, the half-brother of Jesus
This James is the most likely candidate as the child of Mary and Joseph the carpenter.
Did not place faith in Jesus until after the resurrection. Became a prominent leader in
the church in Jerusalem.
When did James write the letter?
The Book of James was written between AD35 and AD45. This would make it THE FIRST
of the New Testament letter to be written!
Who did James write to?
James is written to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom were Jewish Christians
scattered throughout the Roman empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the twelve tribes scattered
among the nations: Greetings.
The audience is FAITHFUL believers
SCATTERED in pagan lands
The Wickedness of Words
Book of James Page 38

The Wickedness of Words
James 3:1-12
A: Jesus will JUDGE our WORDS
James 3:1
1 Not many of you should become teachers, my fellow believers, because you know that
we who teach will be judged more strictly.
Should become teachers - new topic is introduced
My fellow believers - the audience is the same as 1:1
Because you know - the audience was aware
Will be judged more strictly - the Bema judgement is in view here. Believers who
are also teachers aren't at risk of the Great White Throne judgement.
Character is the currency of ministry.
It is character and lifestyle that legitimizes teaching, not knowledge. Teachers are
judged more harshly because their character and lifestyle directly affects the
reception of their teaching.
B: Our WORDS reflect our MATURITY
James 3:2
2 We all stumble in many ways. Anyone who is never at fault in what they say is perfect,
able to keep their whole body in check.
We all stumble - lit. trip, mistake, or fault
In many ways - or "often"
Never at fault - same word as "stumble"
What they say - lit. logos or "words"
Book of James Page 39

What they say - lit. logos or "words"
Perfect - lit. complete/mature; same word as in 1:4, "let perseverance finish its work
so that you may be complete"
Able to keep - lit. to bridle, lead, keep, hold, discipline
Whole body - the body as a personification of the self
C: Words can DIRECT and DAMAGE our lives.
James 3:3-6
3 When we put bits into the mouths of horses to make them obey us, we can turn the
whole animal.
When we put - example one: a horse and bit
Bits into the mouths - the bit is for the direction of the horse
Make them obey - the bit is the tool, obedience is the goal
Turn the whole animal - the size of the animal is irrelevant to the leadership of the
bit
4 Or take ships as an example. Although they are so large and are driven by strong
winds, they are steered by a very small rudder wherever the pilot wants to go.
Or take ships - example two: a ship and a rudder
So large - the size of the ship relative to the rudder
Driven by strong winds - the amount of external force pushing the ship while in the
water
They are steered - the direction of the ship is not from its size or the force of the
wind, but the rudder
Book of James Page 40

The pilot - three Greek words here "impulse/desire; the; make straight" together:
the person whose desire makes straight the path of the ship, aka pilot or steersman
5 Likewise, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts. Consider
what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark.
Likewise - relating both examples back to the main point
The tongue - the organ used for speech; represents all speech
Small part - relative to the size of the rest of a person's body
Great boasts - lit. large verbal overtures
Consider - a third example
Great forest - large relative to the size of a single spark
Set on fire - the consequences of mishandled sparks
Small spark - tiny in comparison to the size of the forest; also temporally small in
comparison to the time a fire can burn in a forest
6 The tongue also is a fire, a world of evil among the parts of the body. It corrupts the
whole body, sets the whole course of one’s life on fire, and is itself set on fire by hell.
The tongue - all the speech that comes from the tongue
A fire - a small thing that can have devastating consequences
Evil - unrighteous; injustice; wickedness; opposite of godliness
Parts of the body - the tongue in comparison to the rest of its whole
It corrupts - the tongue (by extension speech) defiles; stains; and/or blemishes the
whole body (rest of the person) in the same way the fire destroys the whole forest
Book of James Page 41

whole body (rest of the person) in the same way the fire destroys the whole forest
Course of one's life - in the same way the pilot steers the course of the whole ship
On fire by hell - lit, "under hell" or under the powers that are destined for hell, i.e.
sin / demons
D: Words can be CAGED but never TAMED
James 3:7-8
7 All kinds of animals, birds, reptiles and sea creatures are being tamed and have been
tamed by mankind,
Kinds of animals - lit. wild or undomesticated animals
Tamed - lit. being subdued; brought under directive control
Mankind - two words; lit. "human nature"
8 but no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
No human being - because all humans share a common corrupted nature; all
humans share the same weakness
Restless - unstable; uncontrolled;
Deadly - death-dealing or deadly
Poison - venom; corrosion
E: Our WORDS reveal our CHARACTER
James 3:9-12
9 With the tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse human beings,
who have been made in God’s likeness.
Book of James Page 42

With the tongue - the actions of the organ of speech
We praise - to praise; bless; speak well of
Lord and Father - the object of all believer's praise
We curse - to curse; to call down upon; to wish evil upon
Human beings - the object of the cursing in this example
Made in God's likeness - ALL humans are image bearers; not just the one's we look
like or agree with
10 Out of the same mouth come praise and cursing. My brothers and sisters, this should
not be.
Out of the same mouth - the same "tongue" that blesses God should also not curse
other humans; believers or not.
Brothers and sisters - adelphos; believers as in 1:1
Should not be - this "double sided" mouth has no place in the body of believers
11 Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring?
Fresh / salt water - first example: the water is different because the source is
different! The "water" of your speech reflects the source of your character and
lifestyle.
12 My brothers and sisters, can a fig tree bear olives, or a grapevine bear figs? Neither
can a salt spring produce fresh water.
Brothers and sisters - adelphos; believers
Book of James Page 43

Fig tree bear olives - this would be contrary to its nature
Grapevine bear figs - also contrary to the nature of the thing
The Takeaway:
Christians need to be aware their words reflect their maturity and reveal their character
because Jesus will judge our words.
Discussion Questions:
1: How does our character validate or discredit our words.
2: What kind of situations test your control of your words?
3: How do you usually respond when you realize your words have been hurtful to
others?
Book of James Page 44

03:13-04:03 - The Root of Fruit
Monday, June 16, 2025 12:55 PM
Key Thought:
From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the
book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the
real world.
BIG BIBLE STORY
Background on James
4 Possible Authors
James, the half-brother of Jesus
This James is the most likely candidate as the child of Mary and
Joseph the carpenter. Did not place faith in Jesus until after the
resurrection. Became a prominent leader in the church in
Jerusalem.
When did James write the letter?
The Book of James was written between AD35 and AD45. This
would make it THE FIRST of the New Testament letter to be
written!
Who did James write to?
James is written to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom
were Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman
empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
Book of James Page 45

empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the
twelve tribes scattered among the nations: Greetings.
The audience is FAITHFUL believers
SCATTERED in pagan lands
The ROOT of FRUIT
James 3:13-4:3
[no clear break from v12, the same idea now takes on a new
dimension, the "root" of wisdom is seen in the "fruit" of one's
life]
A: The fruit of a RIGHTEOUS lifestyle grows from the root of
godly WISDOM
13 Who is wise and understanding among you? Let them show
it by their good life, by deeds done in the humility that comes
from wisdom.
Wise - lit. skilled in discernment
Understanding - learned or knowledgeable
Let them show it - unlike the baseless claim of 2:16, and in
line with the works being the life and evidence of faith from
2:17, 26
Good life - lit. fine or high moral goodness, value, and/or
status
Book of James Page 46

status
Deeds done - the expectation is that faith will be evidenced
in a Christ-centered lifestyle (2:17, 26(
Humility… from wisdom - answering his own question,
James connects "deeds done in humility" as the definition
of the "good life" which is the evidence of "wisdom and
understanding" in the life of the believer.
B: The fruit of jealous RIVALRY grows from the root of
DEMONIC worldliness.
14 But if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your
hearts, do not boast about it or deny the truth.
But - now a counter example
Harbor - lit. "if you have"
Bitter - lit. "bitter, salty, pungent"; this is the same word as
"salt" in v11 Can both fresh water and salt water flow from
the same spring?
Envy - lit. "jealousy, deeply devoted zeal"
Selfish ambition - selfishness in action implying rivalry
Boast - to give glory to self; arrogant
Deny the truth - lit. "do not speak falsely"
Book of James Page 47

15 Such “wisdom” does not come down from heaven but is
earthly, unspiritual, demonic.
Wisdom - lit. /sophia/ wisdom, prudence, discretion, the
ability to understand and act wisely
The 'understanding and actions' that leads to envy and
jealousy is demonic.
Come down from heaven - the "root" of godly action
Earthly… demonic - the "root" of ungodly action
16 For where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find
disorder and every evil practice.
Where you have - James now focuses on the effect of envy
and jealousy
Disorder - lit. disharmony, confusion, insurrection
Evil practice - lit. foul, wicked, worthless
C: The fruit of compassionate PEACE grows from the root of
godly WISDOM
17 But the wisdom that comes from heaven is first of all pure;
then peace-loving, considerate, submissive, full of mercy and
good fruit, impartial and sincere.
Book of James Page 48

good fruit, impartial and sincere.
Wisdom - lit. /sophia/ wisdom, prudence, discretion, the
ability to understand and act wisely
From heaven - the "root" of the wisdom
The 'understanding and actions' that produces peace,
consideration, submission, mercy, impartiality, and sincerity is
FROM GOD.
18 Peacemakers who sow in peace reap a harvest of
righteousness.
Peacemakers - lit. "those who make peace"
Sow - lit. "sow on top of" or "sow afterword"
Righteousness - virtuous, just, conforming to God's law
D: The fruit of FIGHTS between believers and DENIED answers
to prayer grow from the root of SELFISH desire
1 What causes fights and quarrels among you? Don’t they come
from your desires that battle within you?
What causes - this rhetorical question beings a new section,
but it is related to the previous idea. James now looks at the
application of the "root/fruit" relationship in the previous
verses to relationships between believers
Book of James Page 49

Fights and quarrels - conflicts between believers
Don't they come - James answers his rhetorical question
Desires - /he-don-AY/ lit. "desire, pleasure, lust"
The fruit of fighting and quarrels among believers grows from
the root of selfish desire!
Wb
2 You desire but do not have, so you kill. You covet but you
cannot get what you want, so you quarrel and fight. You do not
have because you do not ask God.
Desire but do not have - lit. "lust born out of jealousy"
So you kill - kill/murder; ie, the person who you are jealous
of, the obstacle to your lusting
You covet… quarrel and fight - James repeats the same
lesson, the primary root cause of fighting between believers
is selfish desire
You do not have - jealousy is based on wanting something
you do not have
Do not ask God - in context, the jealous believer is not
going to God to ask for what the other person has, and this
is causing fights among believers.
Book of James Page 50

3 When you ask, you do not receive, because you ask with
wrong motives, that you may spend what you get on your
pleasures.
Ask… do not receive - in the context, the jealous believer
does pray and ask God, but does not receive it from God
Ask with wrong motives - God sees the desires of our
hearts when we ask him. He knows the true motives of our
hearts when we ask Him for things.
You may spend - lit. to consume, spend, indulge
On your pleasures - /he-don-AY/ lit. "desire, pleasure, lust"
The fruit of denied prayer can be the root of selfish motives.
Sidenote: There is no such thing as "unanswered" prayer. God
answers all prayers with one of three answers: "Yes, No, Not
Yet." Using the term "unanswered" implies that only answer
God could give to a prayer request is "yes" and then any "no" or
"not yet" is not answering.
Prayers can be granted, denied, or delayed.
The Takeaway:
Believers beware: The visible 'fruit' in our life grows from 'roots'
that are often unseen.
Discussion Questions:
Book of James Page 51

Discussion Questions:
1: How does godly wisdom lead us to a righteous lifestyle?
2: What does it look like to sow or plant peace?
3: How does selfish desire cause fights between believers?
Book of James Page 52

04:4-17 - The Expectation of Exclusivity
Monday, June 23, 2025 2:36 PM
Key Thought:
From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the
book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the
real world.
BIG BIBLE STORY
Background on James
4 Possible Authors
James, the half-brother of Jesus
This James is the most likely candidate as the child of Mary and
Joseph the carpenter. Did not place faith in Jesus until after the
resurrection. Became a prominent leader in the church in
Jerusalem.
When did James write the letter?
The Book of James was written between AD35 and AD45. This
would make it THE FIRST of the New Testament letter to be
written!
Who did James write to?
James is written to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom
were Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman
empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
Book of James Page 53

empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the
twelve tribes scattered among the nations: Greetings.
The audience is FAITHFUL believers
SCATTERED in pagan lands
[No clear thematic break from previous section, the concept of
"roots & fruits"
James 4:4–17
4 You adulterous people, don’t you know that friendship with
the world means enmity against God? Therefore, anyone who
chooses to be a friend of the world becomes an enemy of God.
5 Or do you think Scripture says without reason that he
jealously longs for the spirit he has caused to dwell in us?
6 But he gives us more grace. That is why Scripture says: “God
opposes the proud but shows favor to the humble.”
7 Submit yourselves, then, to God. Resist the devil, and he will
flee from you.
8 Come near to God and he will come near to you. Wash your
hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded.
9 Grieve, mourn and wail. Change your laughter to mourning
and your joy to gloom.
10 Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will lift you up.
Book of James Page 54

10 Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will lift you up.
11 Brothers and sisters, do not slander one another. Anyone
who speaks against a brother or sister or judges them speaks
against the law and judges it. When you judge the law, you are
not keeping it, but sitting in judgment on it.
12 There is only one Lawgiver and Judge, the one who is able to
save and destroy. But you—who are you to judge your
neighbor?
13 Now listen, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go to
this or that city, spend a year there, carry on business and make
money.”
14 Why, you do not even know what will happen tomorrow.
What is your life? You are a mist that appears for a little while
and then vanishes.
15 Instead, you ought to say, “If it is the Lord’s will, we will live
and do this or that.”
16 As it is, you boast in your arrogant schemes. All such
boasting is evil.
17 If anyone, then, knows the good they ought to do and
doesn’t do it, it is sin for them.
A: Godliness and worldliness are MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE
4 You adulterous people, don’t you know that friendship with
the world means enmity against God? Therefore, anyone who
Book of James Page 55

the world means enmity against God? Therefore, anyone who
chooses to be a friend of the world becomes an enemy of God.
Adulterous people - another commandment; also a label
God used for His own people when they were unfaithful
Friend/enemy - the words are opposing and mutually
exclusive, you cannot be a "friend" and an "enemy" at the
same time
The world - "don't be polluted by the world" James 1:27;
this is a representation of the corruption of creation
Therefore - because of the unavoidable dichotomy
Chooses - want, wish, choose, decide; an act of the will with
direct results
Enemy of God - one who willingly chooses opposition to
God and His purposes
5 Or do you think Scripture says without reason that he
jealously longs for the spirit he has caused to dwell in us?
Or do you think - provides evidence for the friend/enemy
claim of the previous verse
Scripture - the OT, as this is the first book of the NT
Without reason - the reason is established by the OT
reference
Book of James Page 56

Options:
which spirit: human or Holy ?
Is the spirit the agent or object of the 'jealous longing'
When did God cause the spirit to dwell in us?
(a) “The Spirit who indwells you jealously yearns [for you]
and He gives more grace.”
(b) “He [God] yearns jealously for the Holy Spirit which
indwells you and He gives more grace.”
(c) “The [human] spirit which indwells you yearns to envy,
but He [God] gives more grace.”
6 But he gives us more grace. That is why Scripture says: “God
opposes the proud but shows favor to the humble.”
More grace - this grace is from God to us because our
corrupted human nature is at odds with God's design
God opposes the proud - simple and straightforward, being
prideful makes God your enemy
Favor to the humble - the quickest way to grace is through
humility
B: Submitting to God is resisting the DEVIL, and submitting to
Book of James Page 57

B: Submitting to God is resisting the DEVIL, and submitting to
sin is resisting GOD.
7 Submit yourselves, then, to God. Resist the devil, and he will
flee from you.
Submit yourselves - to subjugate; to humble yourself
before an authority; a military term "to give obedience"
To God - God and God alone is to be the object of our
humble submission
Resist the devil - in the same way friend & enemy are
opposites, submit and resist are opposites
Flee from you - escaping demons is moral, not magical
8 Come near to God and he will come near to you. Wash your
hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded.
Come near to God - the opposite of resist the devil
Come near to you - the opposite of the devil fleeing
Wash/purify - ceremonial cleansing imagery challenges the
readers not only to examine themselves, but to take
repentant action before God
Double-minded - lit. /di-psychos/ same as in James 1:8, the
one who believes and doubts
Book of James Page 58

9 Grieve, mourn and wail. Change your laughter to mourning
and your joy to gloom.
Greive, mourn, wail - actions based on the understanding
of their own unrighteousness
Joy > gloom - the changing of the heart to true repentance
before God
10 Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will lift you up.
Humble yourselves - literally, make yourself low
He will lift you up - the way up is down, by God's power not
ours
C: Slandering BELIEVERS and/or the SCRIPTURES is above our
pay grade
11 Brothers and sisters, do not slander one another. Anyone
who speaks against a brother or sister or judges them speaks
against the law and judges it. When you judge the law, you are
not keeping it, but sitting in judgment on it.
Brothers and sisters - /adelphoi/ the audience from 1:1
Do not slander - the term here implies making accusations
or slandering someone behind their back; accusing them of
unrighteousness in third party conversation
Book of James Page 59

Judges them - this is NOT speaking to a fellow Christian
privately about a righteousness issue. The whole section is
on the destructive power of words in the church. THIS is
judging them in gossip.
Speaks against the law - this is slandering or accusing the
Scriptures themselves.
Sitting in judgement on it - in order to judge something,
you must give yourself a position of authority over it
12 There is only one Lawgiver and Judge, the one who is able to
save and destroy. But you—who are you to judge your
neighbor?
Only one Lawgiver and Judge - this is not a question for
Jewish believers; God is one.
Able to save and destroy - the executed power of God's
authority is absolute
Who are you to judge - we do not have any positional
authority over another believer, thus we have no
justification to judge others
D: Over focusing on WEALTH is worldly and EVIL.
13 Now listen, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go to
this or that city, spend a year there, carry on business and make
money.”
Book of James Page 60

money.”
You who say - James keys in on another way in which
worldliness can creep into the church… business
Business and make money - the focus of this group is
making money, a world-focused plan
14 Why, you do not even know what will happen tomorrow.
What is your life? You are a mist that appears for a little while
and then vanishes.
You do not even know - the limitation of human knowledge
in comparison
You are a mist - the length of human life in comparison to
God's eternality
15 Instead, you ought to say, “If it is the Lord’s will, we will live
and do this or that.”
If it's the Lord's will - this is the action of subjugating our
will to God's will
16 As it is, you boast in your arrogant schemes. All such
boasting is evil.
You boast - to find or take glory in
Arrogant schemes - false pride of life
Book of James Page 61

Arrogant schemes - false pride of life
E: Not doing the GOOD we know to do is SINFUL.
17 If anyone, then, knows the good they ought to do and
doesn’t do it, it is sin for them.
Then - the connecting term acts as a summation or
conclusion of what has been said so far
Knows the good - James knew his audience knew good, but
he has also spelled much of it out thus far in the letter
Doesn't do it - we are required to do the good we know
It is sin - this is called "sin of omission" verses "commission"
The Takeaway:
Believer's submission to God should be visible in their exclusion
from worldly values and judgments.
Discussion Questions:
1. What does "friendship with the world" look like today?
2. James connects humility with God's favor. How do pride
and humility influence your spiritual growth?
3. How can we lovingly hold each other accountable without
Book of James Page 62

3. How can we lovingly hold each other accountable without
stepping into a judgmental or slanderous attitude?
4. How do you incorporate God's direction and Kingdom
values into your financial and/or business thoughts and
actions.
Book of James Page 63

05:1-12 - The Poison of Prosperity
Monday, June 30, 2025 11:36 AM
Background on James
4 Possible Authors
James, the half-brother of Jesus
This James is the most likely candidate as the child of Mary and
Joseph the carpenter. Did not place faith in Jesus until after the
resurrection. Became a prominent leader in the church in
Jerusalem.
When did James write the letter?
The Book of James was written between AD35 and AD45. This
would make it THE FIRST of the New Testament letter to be
written!
Who did James write to?
James is written to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom
were Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman
empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the
twelve tribes scattered among the nations: Greetings.
The audience is FAITHFUL believers
SCATTERED in pagan lands
[No clear thematic break from previous section, the concept of
"roots & fruits" still applies, though is now focused on the bad
Book of James Page 64

"roots & fruits" still applies, though is now focused on the bad
fruit of greed]
James 5:1-12
1 Now listen, you rich people, weep and wail because of the
misery that is coming on you.
2 Your wealth has rotted, and moths have eaten your clothes.
3 Your gold and silver are corroded. Their corrosion will testify
against you and eat your flesh like fire. You have hoarded
wealth in the last days.
4 Look! The wages you failed to pay the workers who mowed
your fields are crying out against you. The cries of the
harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord Almighty.
5 You have lived on earth in luxury and self-indulgence. You
have fattened yourselves in the day of slaughter.
6 You have condemned and murdered the innocent one, who
was not opposing you.
7 Be patient, then, brothers and sisters, until the Lord’s coming.
See how the farmer waits for the land to yield its valuable crop,
patiently waiting for the autumn and spring rains.
8 You too, be patient and stand firm, because the Lord’s coming
is near.
9 Don’t grumble against one another, brothers and sisters, or
you will be judged. The Judge is standing at the door!
Book of James Page 65

you will be judged. The Judge is standing at the door!
10 Brothers and sisters, as an example of patience in the face of
suffering, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
11 As you know, we count as blessed those who have
persevered. You have heard of Job’s perseverance and have
seen what the Lord finally brought about. The Lord is full of
compassion and mercy.
12 Above all, my brothers and sisters, do not swear—not by
heaven or by earth or by anything else. All you need to say is a
simple “Yes” or “No.” Otherwise you will be condemned.
A: Worshipping WEALTH POISONS the heart
5:1-3
1 Now listen, you rich people, weep and wail because of the
misery that is coming on you.
Now listen - bringing emphasis; begins a new section
Rich people - literally "those who have in abundance"; likely
a chance in audience to wealthy unbelievers
Misery that is coming - lit. state of ill-being from affliction
or misfortune
Which judgement?
BEMA if the "rich" are Christians
GREAT WHITE THRONE if the "rich" are wicked
Book of James Page 66

2 Your wealth has rotted, and moths have eaten your clothes.
Wealth has rotted - earthly means will never last
Moths/clothes - early things like clothes are still subject to
earthly processes like rot
3 Your gold and silver are corroded. Their corrosion will testify
against you and eat your flesh like fire. You have hoarded
wealth in the last days.
Gold and silver - that which men trust in for money
Are corroded - lit. rusted or tarnished
Their corrosion - lit. their poison or venom; it is the poison
of money that makes the wealthy sick
Testify - lit. stand as a witness against you
Hoarded wealth - notice is the not wealth itself that is being
judged, but the sinful attitude and actions that stem from
hoarding it; this is the CAUSE of their sins
The love of money is the root of all evil - 1 Tim 6:10
B: GREED leads to sinful INJUSTICE
5:4-6
Book of James Page 67

4 Look! The wages you failed to pay the workers who mowed
your fields are crying out against you. The cries of the
harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord Almighty.
Look! - here is an example of the unjust wealthy's sins
The wages… are crying out - the money unjustly kept is the
"witness" crying out against the rich person
Failed to pay - the rich person became rich by stealing from
those who did the work and were refused payment
Cries of the harvesters - this is the prayers of the workers
who have been refused rightful payment
5 You have lived on earth in luxury and self-indulgence. You
have fattened yourselves in the day of slaughter.
Luxury and self-indulgence - a lifestyle focused on one's
own personal pleasure
Fattened yourselves - the outcome of self-indulgency
6 You have condemned and murdered the innocent one, who
was not opposing you.
Condemned… the innocent - this is the use of wealth to
bribe legal officials
Murdered - what began as a desire to have wealth ended
Book of James Page 68

Murdered - what began as a desire to have wealth ended
with an willingness to murder
C: Believers' PATIENCE should be rooted in Jesus's RETURN
5:7-12
7 Be patient, then, brothers and sisters, until the Lord’s coming.
See how the farmer waits for the land to yield its valuable crop,
patiently waiting for the autumn and spring rains.
Be patient - lit. exhibit self-control in difficult
circumstances; ie, being mistreated by the wealthy
Brothers and sisters - same audience as 1:1
Until the Lord's coming - the reason to hold on during
unjust treatment is the return of the King
See how the farmer - an analogy they all would have
understood
8 You too, be patient and stand firm, because the Lord’s coming
is near.
You too - like the farmer, hold on
9 Don’t grumble against one another, brothers and sisters, or
you will be judged. The Judge is standing at the door!
Grumble - lit. to groan; ie, to complain strongly
Book of James Page 69

Grumble - lit. to groan; ie, to complain strongly
You will be judged - judging something is making yourself
the judge over it
10 Brothers and sisters, as an example of patience in the face of
suffering, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
Brothers and sisters - /adelphoi/ all believers
As an example - looking to the OT prophets James's
audience revered
Patience in suffering - this is where patience is most
challenged and most needed
It's easy to be patient when it's comfortable!
11 As you know, we count as blessed those who have
persevered. You have heard of Job’s perseverance and have
seen what the Lord finally brought about. The Lord is full of
compassion and mercy.
We count as blessed - James looks to those examples of
faith through pain as those who are "blessed"
Job's perseverance - the biblical example of someone who
"held on" and trusted through suffering
The Lord - /kyrios/ the One who has authority over us
Book of James Page 70

Full of compassion and mercy - even though it may not
have felt like it in the trial, this doesn't change God's
character
12 Above all, my brothers and sisters, do not swear—not by
heaven or by earth or by anything else. All you need to say is a
simple “Yes” or “No.” Otherwise you will be condemned.
Above all - could be related to the persecution of the
previous section, but could also be a general lesson
Do not swear - this is talking about making oaths, not
profanity in the modern-day sense; this is invoking God's
name or some other guarantor to prove one's word is true
Matthew 5:33–37
33 “Again, you have heard that it was said to the people long
ago, ‘Do not break your oath, but fulfill to the Lord the vows you
have made.’
34 But I tell you, do not swear an oath at all: either by heaven,
for it is God’s throne;
35 or by the earth, for it is his footstool; or by Jerusalem, for it is
the city of the Great King.
36 And do not swear by your head, for you cannot make even
one hair white or black.
37 All you need to say is simply ‘Yes’ or ‘No’; anything beyond
Book of James Page 71

37 All you need to say is simply ‘Yes’ or ‘No’; anything beyond
this comes from the evil one.
The Takeaway:
Believers should avoid the poison of greed and root their
patience in the return of Jesus.
Discussion Questions:
1: What are examples of “luxury and self-indulgence” in today’s
culture that could distract us from loving others well?
2: Why do you think "grumbling against one another" is
dangerous, especially during trials?
3: Why is James’s instruction to “let your yes be yes and your
no be no” important?
Book of James Page 72

05:13-20 - The Primacy of Prayer
Monday, July 7, 2025 12:15 PM
Background on James
4 Possible Authors
James, the half-brother of Jesus
This James is the most likely candidate as the child of Mary and
Joseph the carpenter. Did not place faith in Jesus until after the
resurrection. Became a prominent leader in the church in
Jerusalem.
When did James write the letter?
The Book of James was written between AD35 and AD45. This
would make it THE FIRST of the New Testament letter to be
written!
Who did James write to?
James is written to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom
were Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman
empire. These groups began to welcome gentiles in.
1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the
twelve tribes scattered among the nations: Greetings.
The audience is FAITHFUL believers
SCATTERED in pagan lands
James 5:13–20
Book of James Page 73

13 Is anyone among you in trouble? Let them pray. Is anyone
happy? Let them sing songs of praise.
14 Is anyone among you sick? Let them call the elders of the
church to pray over them and anoint them with oil in the name
of the Lord.
15 And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person
well; the Lord will raise them up. If they have sinned, they will
be forgiven.
16 Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each
other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous
person is powerful and effective.
17 Elijah was a human being, even as we are. He prayed
earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land
for three and a half years.
18 Again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth
produced its crops.
19 My brothers and sisters, if one of you should wander from
the truth and someone should bring that person back,
20 remember this: Whoever turns a sinner from the error of
their way will save them from death and cover over a multitude
of sins.
[There is not thematic break, James adds the encouragement of
prayer to the theme of patience in suffering or mistreatment.]
Book of James Page 74

13 Is anyone among you in trouble? Let them pray. Is anyone
happy? Let them sing songs of praise.
In trouble - lit. "suffering hardships or mistreatment"
Let them pray - the response to hardship is prayer, not
grumbling or taking oaths
Anyone happy? - lit. "be encouraged"
Sing songs - 1 WORD, lit. "make music with voice"
14 Is anyone among you sick? Let them call the elders of the
church to pray over them and anoint them with oil in the name
of the Lord.
Among you - the audience is believers (1:1)
Sick - /AS-then-ayo/ lit. the opposite of strong or
strengthened, ie weak, this can be physical, it is more likely
spiritually weak (as from patience in suffering)
Two Views:
A: The physically weak believer should call for the elders of
the church to pray for them.
B: The spiritually weak believer should call for the elders of
Book of James Page 75

B: The spiritually weak believer should call for the elders of
the church to pray for them.
Elders of the church - /pres-BU-teros/ /ho/ /ek-lay-SEE-ah/,
the office established by Scripture to lead the local church
body
Pray over them - part of the role of spiritual leadership for
the elders of the church
Anoint them - the oil is a symbol, not a potion
15 And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person
well; the Lord will raise them up. If they have sinned, they will
be forgiven.
Prayer… in faith - the prayer of the elders is expected to be
in full faith
Make the sick - lit. "to save/deliver, make safe"
Sick person well - different word, lit. "discouraged, weary of
the soul" (NOT physically sick)
If they have sinned - if the "weariness of the soul" is due to
active sin, they will be strengthened by presenting
themselves to the elders and their ministry
Will be forgiven - James is touching on physical, spiritual,
and moral wholeness under threat and being refuted by
prayer, not just one of those
Book of James Page 76

prayer, not just one of those
16 Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each
other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous
person is powerful and effective.
Therefore - the conclusion of the argument here
Confess your sins to each other - Christians do not forgive
each other's sins, but we can help other to avoid sin and
build spiritually healthy habits.
You may be healed - confessing sin to a fellow believer is
part of healing from spiritual weariness; it doesn't have a
direct relationship with physical illness
17 Elijah was a human being, even as we are. He prayed
earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land
for three and a half years.
Human being - we often elevate faith heroes forgetting
they were humans like us
He prayed - this prayer takes places within the story of
God's prophet bringing correction to His people
Elijah is the analogy of the church leader who is praying to
'heal' the spiritually weary believer.
18 Again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth
produced its crops.
Book of James Page 77

produced its crops.
Again he prayed - answers to prayer can be providential or
miraculous
B: Believers should CALL each other back to GODLINESS
19 My brothers and sisters, if one of you should wander from
the truth and someone should bring that person back,
Brothers and sisters - audience, 1:1
One of you - the wanderer is a Christian
From the truth - anything taking us further from the truth is
by definition false
Bring that person back - we have a responsibility to watch
over other believers
20 remember this: Whoever turns a sinner from the error of
their way will save them from death and cover over a multitude
of sins.
Remember this - a highlighting phrase
Turns - lit. "to return, to turn back" the 'sinner' here is a
wayward believer, not a 'never-saved' person
Error - lit. "error or deceit"
Multitude of sins - from Prov 10:12, love (of God) is what
Book of James Page 78

Multitude of sins - from Prov 10:12, love (of God) is what
covers sins; turning the wayward believer is turning them
BACK TO GOD
The Takeaway:
When faced with hardship, believers should pray and guard one
another's godliness.
Discussion Questions:
1: Why do you think prayer and praise are the two key
responses to life's highs and lows?
2: James 5:14 could refer to physical or spiritual weakness.
Which interpretation resonates more with you in the context of
the whole passage, and why?
3: James 5:16 encourages believers to confess their sins to one
another. What do you think are the benefits—and challenges—
of practicing this kind of transparency in the church?
Book of James Page 79