Good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Happy Memorial Day weekend. Thank you so much for being here and worshiping with us. If this is your first time worshiping with us here at Catalyst, we are about one thing, and that is loving people to life change in Christ. Those four words represent what we intend to do here this morning. We want to change every time we have the opportunity to become more like Jesus. He is the quintessential model of how to live a life that pleases and worships and serves God. And so as we continue our worship, and I say that because worship is not just music. Worship is everything the people of God do to serve God. So we're going to continue worshiping by learning this morning. We're going to jump back into our series on the book of Ruth. We took a little break last week because our very special missionaries were with us, thankfully for them. And so I want to invite you to turn to Ruth chapter two. Ruth's pretty easy to find. It's Joshua judges Ruth. So if you can find Joshua, then judges, then Ruth right after that. While you're turning to the book of Ruth chapter two, let's review the big Bible story so we know how we got here. So in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. After he created everything else, he created two humans, Adam and Eve. He placed them in the garden at Eden. In the middle of the garden, there were two trees. One tree was the knowledge of good and evil. The other is the tree of life. Good. After being disobedient to God, they get kicked out of the garden at Eden. And Adam and Eve have two children, Cain and Abel. Then we fast forward. Sin begins to go rampant in humanity. Fast forward to Genesis chapter nine. God sends a flood and in order to save one righteous man's family from the flood, he tells this man to build an ark. That man's name was Noah. Noah had three sons, Shem, Ham and Japheth. Man, you guys are on it today. I'm going like 2.0 level questions and you're still staying with me. That's good. So Shem, Ham and Japheth and their wives and Noah and his wife, the flood recedes. Humanity is restarted. Fast forward to Genesis 12. God chooses a man who's currently living in a place called Ur of the Chaldeans. And he says, I want you to go to the land that I will show you. You're going to be my people. I'm going to be your God. I'm going to bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you. All this land to the north, south, east and west is going to be yours to your descendants. That man's name was Abram. And then God changed his name to Abraham. Well done. Then Abraham is told by God he's going to have a son of promise. That son of promise will inherit the covenant relationship with God. Abraham's son of promise's name is Isaac. Isaac is likewise told by God that he will have a son of promise. And that son of promise will inherit the covenant relationship with God. Isaac's son of promise's name is Jacob. Jacob. Then Jacob has 12 sons. The older sell one of the younger into slavery. He goes off into the land of Egypt. Then eventually he rises all the way to being second in command of Egypt. Then God sends a famine and everybody has to move to Egypt. The name of Jacob's son, who was sent 13 years ahead as a slave, who became a ruler, his name is Joseph. The family moving into Egypt under Joseph and Pharaoh's protection and blessing, by the way, if you get all the way to the end of Genesis, Pharaoh actually blesses God's family, puts them in the land of Goshen. That gets us all the way through just Genesis. All of that happened in the first book of the Bible. And if we don't review that, you might miss how everything unfolds. So then the children of Israel are living in Egypt. 400 years pass. There's now a king or a pharaoh in Egypt who did not know who Joseph was. They get frightened of how big people of God have become. They put them into slavery. The children of Israel then cry out for a deliverer. God finds a guy who was originally raised in Egypt, but he's way living in the back 40 in Midian. And he shows up in a burning bush and he says, I want you to be the deliverer of my people. That dude's name is Moses. Moses then goes back to Egypt and finds his older brother, who uses as his spokesperson. His older brother's name is Aaron. And there's a little debate about which one was born first. Moses also has an older sister. Her name is Miriam. There's a little debate about whether Miriam or Aaron is older. We could have that one after church if you like. I can give you the case for both sides. So then Moses and Aaron, they perform these amazing feats of God's miraculous power, overcoming all the ancient gods of Egypt. They leave and God brings them up to a body of water and the Egyptian army is chasing them. And then God causes this body of water to part. The name of the body of the water is the Red Sea. You guys are still with me. This is good. So then God parts the Red Sea. They walk across on dry ground. Pharaoh, in his arrogance, follows them in. God crashes down the Red Sea. And they actually have archaeological discovery of horses and chariots at the bottom of the Red Sea. You can look it up after church. It's there. So then they ultimately, and I would love to tell you that they just, Steve, they just started obeying God and they just started following this miraculous God. Unfortunately, that's not the case. They have an obedience problem. They wander in the wilderness for how many years? 40 years in the wilderness. All so that the oldest generation would die off. God raises up the next generation. He leads them. The young man who sat outside the tent of meeting when Moses was meeting with God, who then God raises up to lead the children of Israel into the land of Canaan. His name is Joshua. Joshua leads the children of Israel. They cross the Jordan River. The Jordan actually parts in the same way the Red Sea did. The Jordan parts, they walk across the Jordan on dry ground. They now move into the land of Canaan. They're supposed to extricate everyone else from the land. They don't do that. It's another form of disobedience. That leads us into the judges period where they're now moved into the land of Canaan. But the key thought from the book of judges is everyone does what is right in their own eyes. There's no single leader over the people anymore. They're all just kind of, you know, yoloing it up and doing their own thing. And that is the setting for the book of Ruth. The book of Ruth takes place during the end of the judges period. And I'm going to give you a little bit more understanding of how close to the end of the judges period today. So just so you all understand, that's where we're at in the big Bible story. There isn't a unanimous monarchy yet. There's not a civil war. And all that happens in the back half of the Old Testament. We haven't made it there yet. We're in the judges period where the children of Israel have a problem being obedient. And then God raises up these different judges. And the majority of the people in the book of judges are bad leaders. There's only like two good judges in the whole book of judges. So don't like have your kids pick a judge and try to live like that because that would definitely not work out well, right? Like Fifty Shades of Samson is not the kind of leader we need. So here we are. We now made it to Ruth chapter two. Let me give you the key thought that's going to mesh all of these messages together. And then we're going to jump in. So here's the key thought. The story of Naomi's restoration is the setting for Ruth's redemption and inclusion in the people of God. Two weeks ago, I told you that I learned the coolest thing about the book of Ruth when I was preparing for last Sunday's sermon. So I read the whole book. I outlined the whole book. I'm trying to Lord, what are you saying in the big picture? So then I can understand what you're saying in each of these little pictures. And the biggest thing I learned is that Ruth is not the primary character of the book of Ruth. Naomi is the primary character in the book of Ruth. How did I discover that? Because the book of Ruth begins and ends talking about Naomi and all four chapters begin and end talking about Naomi. Naomi has more lines than Ruth has. Boaz has more lines than Ruth has. While Ruth is an amazing character in the story, we ought not get distracted by the book's title and miss the other things that God is doing. And so last week we looked at Elimelech and how his leadership of moving his family over into Moab is viewed negatively. And then ultimately, Naomi coming home and bringing Ruth with her is viewed positively. Naomi is an Israelite widow who is moving back to Bethlehem from Moab after the death of her husband and both of her sons. Ruth is a childless Moabite daughter-in-law of Naomi moving after the death of her husband. And today we meet the next big character in the book of Ruth, Boaz. Boaz is a wealthy relative of Elimelech who is Naomi's deceased husband. And he owns land near Bethlehem where Naomi and Elimelech used to live. Just so we're all clear about the who's who and the what's what. All right, so with that said, let's get into Ruth. One more thing. Two weeks ago I told you that the events of the book of Ruth happened in about 1115 BC. I'm beginning to question how accurate the number is and I'll tell you why. So there's a scale of dates. There's late dates and early dates. There's late and early dates for the Exodus and there's late and early dates for the dedication of Solomon's temple. The problem is I'm having to determine which of the late and early dates for the Exodus I think is most accurate and also which of the early dates for Solomon's temple are the most accurate. And you can't do this. You can't make years up. So if you go early here, you have to go early here or the timeline doesn't track. If you go late here, you have to go late here or the timeline doesn't track. So the 1115 BC is the later date. And after some more reading and studying this week, I'm just questioning whether it's late or early. So I'm going to like retract my previous statement and say I'm not exactly sure. What I can tell you is the events of the book of Ruth occur between about 1260 BC and 1115 BC. And that would be the range from the early to the late. And just because I did a super deep dive on time lining this week and I just want to let you know I might have been wrong. I'm not super sure. Hopefully by the time we get to the end of the book, I might have that one figured out. So here we go. Ruth chapter two starting in verse one. Now, Naomi had a relative on her husband's side, a man of standing from the clan of Alimelech, whose name was Boaz. And Ruth the Moabite said to Naomi, Let me go to the fields and pick up the leftover grain behind anyone whose eyes I find favor. Naomi said to her, Go ahead, my daughter. So she went out, entered a field and began to glean behind the harvesters. As it turned out, she was working in a field belonging to Boaz, who was from the clan of Alimelech. Just then, Boaz arrived from Bethlehem and greeted the harvesters. The Lord be with you. The Lord bless you, they answered. Boaz asked the overseer of his harvesters. Who does that young woman belong to? The overseer replied, She is the Moabite who came back from Moab with Naomi. She said, Please let me glean and gather among the sheaves behind the harvesters. She came into the field and has remained here from morning until now, except for a short rest in the shelter. So Boaz said to Ruth, My daughter, listen to me. Don't go and glean in another field and don't go away from here. Stay here with the women who work for me. Watch the field where the men are harvesting and follow along after the women. I have told the men not to lay a hand on you. And whenever you are thirsty, go get a drink from the water jars. The men have filled. At this, she bowed down with her face to the ground. She asked him, Why have I found such favor in your eyes that you notice me a foreigner? Boaz replied, I have been told all about what you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband, how you left your father and mother and your homeland and came to live with a people you did not know before. May the Lord repay you for what you have done. May you be richly rewarded by the Lord, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge. May I continue to find favor in your eyes, my Lord, she replied. You have put me at ease by speaking kindly to your servant, though I do not have the standing of one of your servants. At mealtime, Boaz said to her, Come here. Have some bread and dip it in the wine vinegar. When she sat down with the harvesters, he offered her some roasted grain. She ate all she wanted and had some left over. As she got up to glean, Boaz gave orders to his men, Let her gather among the sheaves and don't reprimand her. Even pull out some stalks for her from the bundles and leave them for her to pick up and do not rebuke her. So Ruth gleaned in the field until evening. Then she threshed the barley she had gathered and it amounted to about an ifa. She carried it back to town and her mother-in-law saw how much she had gathered. Ruth also brought out and gave her what she had left over after she had eaten enough. Her mother-in-law asked her, Where did you glean today? Where did you work? Blessed be the man who took notice of you. Then Ruth told her mother-in-law about the one at whose place she had been working. The name of the man I worked with today is Boaz, she said. The Lord bless him, Naomi said to her. Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, He has not stopped showing his kindness to the living and the dead. She added, That man is our close relative. He is one of our guardian redeemers. Then Ruth the Moabite said, He even said to me, Stay with my workers until they finish harvesting all my grain. Naomi said to Ruth, her daughter-in-law, It will be good for you, my daughter, to go with the women who work for him, because in someone else's field you might be harmed. So Ruth stayed close to the women of Boaz to glean until the barley and wheat harvests were finished. And she lived with her mother-in-law. So that's all of chapter two. Let's rewind back to the beginning. There are some just super fun, cool stuff buried in here that we need to dig out. So if we remember from chapter one, Elimelech led his family to Moab. Elimelech dies. Both sons die. And then ultimately Orpah, who is Naomi's other daughter-in-law, chooses to go home. And Ruth dedicates herself to Naomi. Your people be my people, your God will be my God. I say what you say, what I say. Then they all come home. And then here, verse one. Now, Naomi had a relative on her husband's side, a man of standing from the clan of Elimelech, whose name was Boaz. So if you'll remember, and I've said this before, when the book of Ruth was originally written, there's no chapter two. Right? The original biblical authors did not stop and go, you know what, Casey? I think this is a perfect place. Let's put a chapter break and put another one. When the texts were written, they were stories. They were on scrolls. They weren't even on pages. So we have added chapter breaks in order for us to do what we're doing today and be able to jump into the story and start in a specific place. The reason the chapter break is right here at chapter two is because chapter two has a thematic element. We're introducing a new character. And the way that Boaz is introduced has a lot to do with the way his character is supposed to be understood and interpreted. So first, Naomi had a relative on her husband's side. Notice that Boaz is introduced through the lens of his relationship to Naomi. Again, that's why I said Ruth's book's not really about Ruth. It's about Naomi's redemption that includes Ruth's inclusion and adoption into the people of God. So Boaz is first introduced to us as a relative of Naomi on her husband's side. And then this term, man of standing, literally it means great man, champion, hero, mighty man of valor. If you think about that term when it talks about Gideon or a man of means, man of standing, man of means. This is an influential wealthy man in the town and the area of Bethlehem. This is not, you know, like Joe Schmo dude. This is a man of standing and he is from the same same clan as a limelight. Now, for us, that's just an added detail. But to the original readers who still lived under Old Testament law, they sort of see the writing on the wall, so to speak. They understand the concept of what's typically called the kinsman redeemer or the guardian redeemer. So I want to explain this concept because if you don't understand what this means, you're going to miss it in verse one. Whereas the original readers would have immediately understood because last chapter, Naomi said, I don't have any more sons. Right. What am I going to do? I'm going to go get pregnant. You're going to wait for my boys to grow up and marry them. No, it'll be bitter for me, but better for you to stay home. So that coming into chapter two, we're already waiting for Naomi to be rescued by a male relative who's not going to be one of her sons. And then, oh, look, here comes a relative Boaz from the clan of a limelight. So here's what is commonly referred to as lever right or lever it marriage. In this case, a limelight marries Naomi and they do not produce any male heirs. And then a limelight dies. Naomi is a woman is not allowed to own property. She is dependent on the male family members that she has. That's why it was so important. That's why even in the Ten Commandments, honor your father and mother that what? That your days may be long in the land. The whole purpose is there's no Social Security system in Old Testament Israel. The way that elderly folk were cared for is when their children took over the family farm, took over the family business and provided for their mother and father until they go home. So Naomi's in a tough spot. She needs to be rescued or redeemed by someone who's related to her. And here's where this lever it or lever right marriage comes in. If a limelight had a brother, it would be a limelight brothers job to marry Naomi. To impregnate Naomi. But the first child male child that Naomi bears would be considered the son of her deceased husband so that his family lineage would continue. Now that sounds super odd to us today. I get that. That sounds super weird. Those of you who have brother-in-laws, you're all going, oh, right. I get it. I get it. Every time this passage comes up, my sister-in-laws are like, no. Okay, no. Now that my nieces are slightly older, they're like, oh, you know, I get it. But you have to understand the functionality of this in its day. This is provision for widows and orphans. And what do we have here right now? Naomi is a widow and Ruth is an orphan. And God loves the widow and the orphan enough to make a provision for their sustenance. And in this day and age, this is what it was. Naomi knows this. Remember, Naomi is an Israelite who had moved away, followed her husband, did not work out going to live in Sin City. They're now coming home. And Naomi knows the goodness of God. There's also a term that shows up in the book of Ruth in Hebrew that I want to tell you about because it's a theme that we're going to see very heavily in this chapter. And that is the theme of faithfulness. The Hebrew word is chesed. It's like C-H-E-S-E-D if I was to spell it out in English. And it means loving faithfulness. It means a love that is loyal. God's loyal love to his people. A wife's loyal love to her husband. A husband's loyal love to his wife. We call that faithfulness. We might call that fidelity. Kind of centered on that word faith. Whereas in a Hebrew context, it's centered on loyalty. When you add loyalty and love together, that's what faithfulness is. That's what this Hebrew term chesed is. Loyalty in love and love in loyalty. An equal mixture. So Naomi knows the loyal love of God. And she's coming home because she's been out there in Sin City and it didn't work out so well. And now she's coming home destitute as the orphan and the widow. And she is trusting that God has not forgotten her. Even though last chapter she came home and said don't call me Naomi anymore. Call me Mara because my life is bitter because God is punishing me. She still knows that God is faithful to his own word and faithful to his people. So the 1st century, or not even the 1st century, the 1200 BC or 1100 BC readers of this book when it was originally written, they know all about God's loyal love. And they know all about the Leverite marriage. So verse 1 to them is kind of a big flashing foreshadowing of what's coming. So when Boaz is introduced, he is introduced already as this Redeemer Savior character who is going to redeem the orphan and the widow who's going to help Naomi have a child. This is the hope. This is the whole hope in the book of Ruth. That even orphans and widows can be saved because God's loyal love will be there to see them through. And Boaz is the representation. Remember how I told you that in the Hebrew scriptures, Ruth comes right after Proverbs 31 and Ruth is the embodiment of the Proverbs 31 woman. Boaz is the embodiment of God's loyal love for his people. Okay? So that's verse 1. That's where Boaz gets introduced. The clan of Elimelech puts him in position to be that Leverite marriage Redeemer. Then in verse 2, notice the way Ruth is introduced. Ruth the Moabite. I don't want to make anybody uncomfortable, but we've got to talk about racism. Because if I ignore the racial tension of the chapter, I am doing you an injustice to what's happening. When Elimelech and Naomi moved to another town, they moved to a town of people who hated the Jews. Now, Elimelech made that decision because he said, Jim, we go over there, we can make money. I don't even care if I have to live with these people who hate my people and they hate us and we hate them. If I can make money, it'll be good for my family. So let's just go. Ruth, choosing to move home, she is choosing to move into an area where she will be the brunt of racism. And just do yourself a favor sometime. Read this book and read the number of times she is introduced as Ruth the Moabite. Ruth the Moabite. She's an outsider. She's not one of us. For my Harry Potter fans, she's a muggle. Ruth the Moabite said to Naomi, let me go to the fields and pick up the leftover grain behind anyone else in whom I find favor. Ruth knows that she's got to work if Naomi and she are going to live. Now, Naomi is old enough to be the mother of Ruth's husband who they were married for a decade. So if we say at this time women probably got married anywhere from age 12 to age 14 and Ruth has already been married for 10 years, that makes her 24 to 26. Because we also don't know how long they were in Moab before Naomi starts to go home. So let's just say Ruth's 26 years old. Naomi is the mom of Ruth's husband who would have likely been slightly older than Ruth. So men took wives who were younger. So if we say Ruth is 26, let's go ahead and add on, let's just go for 10 years. That means that that Malon and Killian were 36 and that means that Naomi's probably, let's go mid 50s. So mid 50s, Ruth 26. Here's the portrait difference. Ruth knows back breaking work for Naomi in her mid 50s, almost 60s is not going to work. If they need enough food to be provided for, Ruth has to step up and be willing to work. And a 26 year old back is a lot stronger in the fields than a 56 year old back. So she says to Naomi, let me go. Let me go to the fields, pick up the leftover grain. So something else context wise, I'm sorry it's going to take a lot to get through. I promise all the verses aren't going to be this long, but there's a lot of foundation here. Why does Ruth go to the field? Because those of you who like taking notes, write down Leviticus chapter 19 verses 9 and 10. Leviticus 19, 9 and 10 allow a provision for the poor. If you were a landowner and you were growing a crop, Leviticus 19, 9 and 10 says this. When you, and this is not in the notes Dino, so don't freak out. When you reap the harvest of your land, do not reap the very edges of your field or gather the gleanings of your harvest. Do not go over your vineyard a second time or pick up the grapes that have fallen. Leave them for the poor and the foreigner. I am the Lord your God. This is God providing for the poor in the land by not having the landowners scrape every last thing that they grew. They were to leave the edges of their field unharvested so that if anyone were poor they could go and harvest some food to eat. Ruth knows this, likely because Naomi knows this. Ruth didn't grow up in Israel, she grew up Moab, right? But Naomi grew up here. Naomi knows the goodness of God. Naomi knows the loyal love of God. So somewhere along the line she's taught Ruth this practice and Ruth goes, I'll go. Let me go for us. So then she goes out and I love in verse 3, right? Here in the middle of verse 3 it says, so she went out. She entered a field, began to glean behind the harvesters as it turned out. These are the funniest words in the whole chapter, I promise. As it turned out she was working in a field belonging to Boaz. Now remember, if you're the original readers, you already have kind of a glint in your eye about Boaz, right? Because he's introduced and there's, oh, maybe he's the redeemer. Maybe that's where this is going. And then all of a sudden Ruth decides to go out and serve Naomi and she accidentally happened to become in Boaz's field. So we got to ask the question here. You got two choices. Ruth going out not knowing anybody, ending up in Boaz's field. Coincidence or providence, right? I'm not willing to say miraculous and here's why. There's nothing in this text that said that God has used his divine power to overcome anything in the natural world. So not every divine act of God is a miracle. Sometimes there's divine acts of God that are providential because he works within the normal workings of our world. When he does a miracle like a healing or a resurrection, that is him overtaking the normal events. Those are miracles. This is providential or you could view it as coincidental. I think the original readers and we today would understand this is like a tongue in cheek. You know, whose field, you'll never guess whose field she was in, right? Like it's just, it's to me is very obvious as it turned out, she ends up exactly where she needs to be, which is in Boaz's field. And not just where she needs to be. Look at verse four. She ends up where she needs to be at exactly the same time that Boaz is coming back to check on his field. Like really, really? You want to tell me that after all of that 21 day journey from Moab back to Bethlehem and Naomi finds a place to crash and Ruth says, let me go out and get us some food that just happens to be in the same place where Boaz is going to be. And it just happens to be like at what point can we just stop and say, maybe God is at work, right? Because that's exactly how the original readers would have read it. Just then, as it turned out, just then, these are God moving behind the scenes. God moving behind the scenes in a providential way. Boaz arrived from Bethlehem and he greeted the harvesters. That means the harvesters are working for Boaz. That means he is a wealthy landowner that confirms that man of means from verse one. But look at the way he greets them. He doesn't greet them. You'll be like, Jim, how's my work today? No, he greets them in the name of the Lord. First, the Lord be with you. Now, notice it's all capital letters, right? What does it mean in an English Bible when you see the word Lord in all capital letters? God's covenant name for his people. That's Yahweh in English. That's anytime you see that. Capital letters, it's God's personal name for his covenant people. Boaz greets his workers in the name of the covenant God who loyally loves his people. And look at how they respond. The Lord bless you. This is picturing Boaz not just as the hopeful maybe redeemer figure, but the hopeful maybe redeemer figure who lives his life the way God desires it, in right relationship with God, putting God first. But he's also not a slouch when it comes to business. Doesn't say how long he looked through his field, but all of a sudden he went, I don't know you. And he goes to his overseer or the person who's overseeing the operation and he asks who is this young woman? He's asking for her identity. Who does the young woman belong to? He is not assuming that Ruth is a slave. He's asking about her heredity, right? Remember I told you there is a racism element to this book. He's asking, you ain't from around here. Where's she at? Where's she from? And the overseer now replies with a conversation that happened before Boaz shows up, right? The overseer clearly had a conversation. She's the Moabite who came back with Naomi. Verse seven is the conversation that she asked the overseer for and his take on who she is as a person. Then verse eight, Boaz speaks directly to Ruth. And what is his first words? My daughter. What were the last words Naomi said to Ruth before she left the house that morning? My daughter. So not only is Boaz pictured as this redeeming character, not only is he pictured as a righteous and godly man, he uses the same loving words that Naomi uses as a father who cares for a young woman. My daughter, listen to me. Don't go. And then he goes into, so verse eight, don't go into any of the fields. Stay here with the women who work. Verse nine, watch where the men are harvesting. I've told everybody not to lay a hand on you. Go whenever you want. Get drink from the water jars. All of this is beyond just being allowed to glean food. This is not just provision. This is blessing outside of provision coming from Boaz to Ruth. Ruth responds here in verse 10, and she bows down with her face to the ground. This is literally the same sort of words that we would use as an act of worship. She responds to the blessing coming from Boaz in a worshipful manner. So not only is Boaz putting God first, Ruth realizes, in my opinion, Ruth realizes where this blessing is coming from, and she's thankful. She bows down and putting herself under his authority and asks him, why have I found such favor in your eyes that you notice me a foreigner? She knows she's the outsider. She knows that she doesn't belong. Also, I would argue that Boaz is tantamount to saying so when he says, don't go into anybody else's field. Stay here. My people will keep you safe. He's illustrating that he understands the precarious situation that an orphan, outsider woman not from this nation, could experience. And so he's not only going to provide for her, but he's going to protect her by keeping her with his people in his field and giving all the men who surround her instructions not to harm her, which also means, by the way, don't let anybody else harm her either. 11, Boaz replies, and the justification for receiving these blessings is based on Ruth's service to Naomi and her faith. And I think verse 11, Dino, let's stop there for a second, verse 11. Some very interesting wordplay here in the Old Testament. So look at it. He says, I've been told all about what you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband. That's Ruth's character. But the last part of verse 11 is Ruth's actions, how you left your father and mother and your homeland and you came to live with the people that you did not know before. That sentence has all the same elements in it as somebody all the way back from Genesis 12. When God originally spoke to Abram, what did he say? Leave your father and mother and your land and your people and go to the land that I will show you. Verse 11 is figuring the faith of Ruth through the faith of Abram when he left the Ur of the Chaldeans to come to this very land for the first time. In fact, if you go all the way back to Genesis and you watch the way Abraham traveled, Abraham was literally here. So I think verse 11 is illustrating to us that Ruth is not just the Proverbs 31 woman, but Ruth has the heart of faith to believe in God even though she wasn't born in Israel. Just, and by the way, just in case anybody missed it, Abram wasn't born a Jew. He couldn't be because there was no nation of Jews at the time that Abram followed. Paul even says that in the New Testament. Abram is the very first Gentile who put his faith in God. Why? Because Abram is the beginning of the Hebrew line. You can't call him a Hebrew because there were no Hebrews before him. He was just some random Gentile that God said, I'm going to make a covenant with you. I'm going to be your God. You're going to be my people. Let's go. Let's go over there and let's do this. When Abram originally followed God, he was just a God. And then Genesis plays out and he becomes a patriarch. Here in this moment, Ruth is just one girl from the wrong side of the tracks, but who has the right heart and the right faith and is willing to leave everything she's ever known behind and commit herself to God. That's what happened in chapter one. So verse 11 likens Ruth's faith to Abraham. Then we get to 12. May the Lord repay you for what you have done. May you be richly rewarded by the Lord, the covenant God of Israel. May you be richly rewarded by the covenant God of Israel. And then under whose wings you have come to take refuge. So sometimes people like to overly, when we say that we read the Bible literally, right? We read the Bible literally. This verse does not mean that God has wings like a giant eagle. This is a analogy. It's actually called a zoo-o-morphism or zoo-morphism. And it's using the description of the way a mother hen uses her wings to shield her children. And the same way that God uses his divine authority to shield his people. It is not saying that God has to have wings in order to be real or to be true. That's called literalistic reading. It's overly wooden. Clearly this language is saying you may be richly rewarded by Yahweh, the covenant-making God of Israel, under whose protection you are now taking refuge. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? So that's what a zoo-o-morphism is if you ever hear it. An anthro-pomorphism, just for those of you who like notes, is when we use human characteristics to describe God. The strength of God's hand or the God's sight or God hears. Those are anthro-pomorphisms because we're using the description of a human being to describe God. Versus here, that's a zoo-o-morphism using a description of an animal. 13, Ruth responds again. May I continue to find favor? She realizes everything she's receiving from Boaz is on grace. It's not on earn. She doesn't deserve it. She's still an out-of-towner, but God is pouring out all of this loyal love on Ruth. Then you get to 14 at mealtime. Boaz blesses her again. Does Boaz owe her a happy meal break? No, but he gives it to her. Free, with love, with grace. Not earned, not owed, but given nonetheless. This whole relationship in chapter two between Boaz and Ruth is a portrait of the love, the loyal love and faithfulness of God pouring out blessing beyond provision for his children who follow him and obey him on faith. That's really the big picture. Now he gives her a meal. He gives her so much food that she can't even eat it all. Where does the rest of the food go? If you get to the end of the chapter, she takes it home to Naomi. So now God's blessing through Boaz to Ruth also feeds Naomi. Plus, where do you think she took all the grain that she collected all day? Back to Naomi. So now you've got people being blessed by association. God's blessings are so large that they roll off one person and hit the next. Then verse 15, so you kind of have to pay attention to the words a little bit here, but in verse 15, Boaz changes the game for what Ruth is allowed to collect. So Leviticus requires that he let her collect from the edges of the field. That's it. That's all that Leviticus requires him to do. Here in verse 15 and 16, very clearly, he changes the game and he starts making her job of collecting even easier, even more than what he's required to do in the law. This is again grace on grace. Verse 15, he got up and Boaz gave orders to his men, let her gather from among the sheaves and don't reprimand her, which means let her gather right behind you. Verse 16, pull out some of the stalks and the bundles and leave them for her to pick up. This isn't just pulling one or two kernels that the harvesters have missed. This is the entire stalk. Cut it off and drop it for her. Just cut it off and let her collect it. He's now giving her direct provision from his workers, but leaving it for her to pick up. So this is well beyond what Leviticus required him to do. This is way out there. No one would ever expect, especially if you're reading this in this day and time, this is like cray cray amount of blessing. Like I don't even like, I can't even think of a modern day analogy that works because it's the agrarian society is so locked into you collect and you eat, you collect and you eat and Boaz is saying, no, no, I want you to do the work, but I want you to give it to her. That's what he's saying. I want you to do the work. Tyler, I want you to give the work, but I want you to give your paycheck to Anthony. That's what he's saying. He's saying, listen, you work for me. I'm going to take care of you, but you're going to give your paycheck to Anthony because he needs it. And so then she gleans all day until evening. Then she threshes or she breaks the barley off of the stocks. That's the separating process. She gathered it and the amount is in IFA looked it up and there's a little dispute here. So we're going to go with she collected between 30 to 50 pounds of grain in a single day. Yeah, this is way more than like just those random grains that she's sticking in a pocket. She collected 30 to 50 pounds of food because remember we're talking about God's provision for a widow and an orphan. 30 to 50 pounds of food. She carries it back to Naomi and she gives her all of it and the food that she was given that she didn't eat. And what's Naomi's first question in verse 19? Where did you go today? Right. Naomi's response in verse 19 should illustrate how large the blessing is for us. Even if it doesn't make a lot of sense to us 30 to 50 pounds of grain and you know taking the rest of your happy meal and sticking in your purse like we might not be able to get all of that. But what we can read is the way that the original audience responds to Ruth. Where did you go? Right. Like how did you get all of this in a single day? Where did you work? Bless this who? Ruth wherever you went I prayed that God would bless that man. And then in verse 19 now the cat's out of the bag. The man I worked with today is Boaz. And Naomi's reaction in verse 20 may Yahweh the covenant making God bless him. He has not stopped showing his kindness. The Hebrew word right there in verse 20 is that has said that I told you he and if you allow me to swap it out for you. He has not shopped stopped showing his loyal love to the living and to the dead. This man is our close relative. He is one of our guardian redeemers. Now you might be asking yourself how is Boaz's actions showing love to the living and to the dead. Here it is. Obviously Naomi and Ruth they're the living right. They're the ones who are still living. But how does God show his blessing in favor to the dead. Naomi is referring to a limelight. She is saying that if the lever right marriage takes place and she is able to bear a son in a limelight name. That the provision that Boaz could be if he is that redeemer character. Then God is showing his loyal love to my deceased husband by giving my husband a son that he never got in life. That is what Naomi is saying. We miss it because that eww icky idea of brother-in-law helping you have a kid is icky sticky in our culture. But it is foundational to understanding what's happening here. So when she says you know he's not stop showing his kindness to the living and the dead. The food for Naomi and Ruth is the loyal love of God for them. The possibility that Naomi could actually still bear a limelight son is God's grace to a limelight. Then 20 the Lord bless him. I just said that not stop showing his living kindness. Then he lets her know. I mean then Naomi lets Ruth know Boaz is one of our guardian redeemers. If she didn't understand the concept she definitely gets it here. And then in 21 he even said to me stay with my workers until they finished all the grain. That means this harvest and the next one. So Ruth likely harvested for all of April May and probably two thirds of June. It's actually the barley harvest and the wheat harvest. Both harvests she gets to collect these abundant blessings from Boaz's field. And receives his protection verse 22. Because let me work for him so I don't go to anybody else's field so nobody else harms me. And then verse 23. So Ruth stayed close to the women of Boaz to glean until the barley and wheat harvests were finished. And she lived with her mother-in-law. So here's how we bring this in for a landing. Naomi is a widow who is destitute without a male heir. That's what she needs. She needs a limelight to have a son. And the only way that's going to happen is with a guardian or kinsman redeemer. Ruth is an out of town outsider orphan who's with Naomi. But that outsider out of towner has the faith of Abraham to believe and trust in God. And now we add to that the third character Boaz. Boaz is the living representation of the loyal love of God. To redeem even those born outside of Israel. Why? So here's the one thing that I think is the coolest that brings this whole chapter together. Why? Number one, Boaz is an amazingly godly man. And we could leave it there. He is. He is the representation of God's loyal love. No question about it. But there's another reason why Boaz is motivated to show love to the woman who's born outside. Does anybody know, without looking and without cheating, does anybody know who Boaz's mother is? Boaz's mother is Rahab the prostitute from the book of Joshua. The one woman who was an outsider who when the time came placed all her faith in the loyal loving of God. And redeemed her entire family. Boaz is alive because Rahab placed her faith in Yahweh. I guarantee you he learned that as a kid. Boaz is the living representation of a woman born outside. Placing her faith in the one true God. Even betraying the town she lived in. And if you go back to, what is it, Joshua, like what? Two, three, four, somewhere in there. She says to the spies in the land, No, no, no, no, no. We heard what your God did in Egypt. We believe God has given you this land. What do I have to do? I placed my faith in your God because clearly he's better than our God. That's Boaz's mother. When you put that, and how do I know that that's Boaz's mother? If you turn to Matthew chapter one, somewhere between like verse five to eight, as Matthew is going through the genealogy of Jesus, it specifically says that the mother, whose mother was Rahab. So if you look at Boaz in Matthew chapter one, you're going to see that his mother was Rahab. The man who was raised by an outsider who placed her faith in God, absolutely can recognize the same thing in this young woman who comes as an outsider placing her faith in God. And the whole chapter is this giant portrait of God's loyal love, even for the widow and the orphan, even for the one born outside. Faith is the element that brings about God's blessing. That's what chapter two is about. So what does that mean for you and I today? So here, let me give you your takeaways. We bring this in for a landing. God's covenant faithfulness is displayed through Boaz's treatment of Ruth. How often do we stop and look to see if the coincidences in our lives are actually God's providence at work guiding us? If you just thought that Ruth just happened to be in the right field, just happened to be there at the right time when Boaz came by, just happened to get a free Happy Meal from Boaz at lunch, just happened for him to tell his workers, hey, by the way, cut the sheaves and just drop them. Let her collect as much. How many just happens, have to happen, before we realize that what's really happening is God in action? Now we get the benefit of seeing this with, you know, 3,000 years worth of rear view mirror. But I would submit to you that God is still the same yesterday, today, and forever. How many times do you look at your own life and see, well, this just happened that way, and oh, well, this just happened that way, and this just happened that way? I think so many times we miss the move of God in our church and in our families because we're too stuck on coincidence, and we don't zoom the lens back and look to see if I put two or three things together that it's actually providence. I believe that God still has a loyal love for his people. I believe that Boaz is also that Redeemer, Christ-like character, whose love and whose grace provides blessing beyond provision for anybody who's willing to place their faith in him. That's the contemporary lesson. If I were to bring Boaz forward, Boaz is the Jesus character. Boaz is the character through whom God mutes out more than just provision, but blessing and provision for those who come to him on faith. Thank you.