Well, good morning again. For those of you who didn't catch my name the first time, my name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here at Catalyst. We are going to conclude. Oh, I'm a little ringy. We're going to conclude our study in the Book of Ruth this morning. So if you brought your Bibles with you, I'm going to ask that you turn or tap to the Book of Ruth. It's right after Joshua judges Ruth. While you're turning there, let's review the big Bible story of what got us to the Book of Ruth. So in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. He creates a garden in a place called Eden and into that garden, he places two human beings, Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve have their first two children of humanity, Cain and Abel. Then because of sin, Adam and Eve are ejected from the garden. We fast forward, sin runs rampant throughout humanity. God sends a flood and in order to rescue humanity, God speaks to a guy and tells him to build a really big boat and put all the animals on that boat and that guy's name is Noah. Noah has how many sons? Three. So that means how many human beings total on the ark? Eight. Very good. Noah, his three sons and all of their wives. So eight human beings. After 40 days and nights of rain, the water covered the earth for a little over a year. Then the flood waters subside, humanity restarts. We get to Genesis chapter 12. God chooses a very special man from Ur of the Chaldeans. He said, listen, I want you to go to the land that I will tell you to go to. Keep walking till I tell you to stop. You'll know it when you see it. I'm going to be your God. You're going to be my people. I'm going to bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you. God changes that man's name to Abraham. The covenant that God makes with Abraham gets repeated to a to one of Abraham's sons. So let's talk about what is the name of the son of Abraham who is not a covenant carrier? Ishmael, I heard it right. Ishmael God, he already has Ishmael when God tells him I'm going to. And so God, he's like, but I have a son right here. Can we just give the covenant to this boy? And God says, no, I told you Sarah is going to have a son. So Abraham's son, who is the covenant carrier's name is Isaac. Likewise, Isaac has two sons, the older of which is not the covenant carrier. The younger of Isaac's sons becomes the covenant carrier and his name is Jacob. Men's fraternity. We just looked at that moment on Wednesday night where God communicates to Jacob. He has the famous Jacob's Ladder or staircase dream with angels going up and down. Jacob then has 12 sons, 11 of them sell one of their brothers into slavery because he talks too much. Ultimately, God uses that. He sends him into Egypt. And because Joseph is sent into Egypt, he rescues entire family from a seven year famine. That's the end of the book of Genesis. The end of the book of Genesis, God's people move into Egypt. They're there for 400 years and then they get enslaved. The Pharaoh who did not know who Joseph was, enslaves God's people. They cry out for a deliverer and God sends them a deliverer who was raised in Egypt, but grew up in Midian who comes in with a staff. His name is Moses. Whose brother's name is Aaron. Whose sister's name is Miriam. That's right. So Moses and Aaron, they through God's power performed the 10 plagues of Egypt. They ultimately leave. God parts the sea of a really big body of water. And the name of that body of water is the Red Sea. They cross on dry ground as the Egyptians follow them in. God crashes the waves down and he rescues his people. And at that point, these people are just supposed to be obedient and do what they're told. But they don't. And so now we have an obedience problem. And so they wander in the wilderness for how many years? Forty years. They wander in the wilderness. After the wilderness wandering, God raises up another young man in order to lead God's people. Who is the leader of Israel after Moses? Joshua. Joshua then leads God's people into the promised land. The Jordan River parts and stands up on end 26 miles upstream so that parts just the way the Red Sea parted. They cross into the promised land. Ultimately, then that leads to the incursion into Canaan. They move into Canaan and then starts the judges period. So there's no kings yet. So those of you who know what's coming next, the United Monarchy period, that hasn't happened yet. We left Egypt. We wandered for 40 years. God appoints Joshua. They cross the Jordan River into the land of Canaan. They do not push out everyone who is supposed to be there. And so now they're living amongst other people groups. And that is the Book of Judges. And the key thought in the Book of Judges is everyone does right what is in their own mind. Everybody is just you do you boo. That's the new international bill translation of the Book of Judges. Everyone does what is right in their own eyes. The Book of Ruth takes place during the judges period. Actually, it takes place during the end of the judges period. And we're going to see that today in Chapter four. So here, now that we know where we are in biblical history, we're anywhere from 1240 to 1110 BC. And there are some early dates and later dates depending on when you date the Exodus and some other Old Testament issues. So I'll say that we're in the range of 1240 to 1110 BC in Canaan. And here's your key thought that will attach this sermon to the other three. The story of Naomi's restoration is the setting for Ruth's redemption and inclusion in the people of God. I'll tell you one more time. The coolest thing I learned about the Book of Ruth when I started preparing for these sermons is that the Book of Ruth isn't actually about Ruth. It has her name in it and she's a major character in it. But the primary character of the Book of Ruth is not Ruth. It is Naomi. How do I know that? Because the book begins and ends with Naomi. Every chapter begins and ends with Naomi. And today we're going to see Naomi's position in the tribe is a major part of what's happening in the chapter. So quick review. Naomi is an Israelite widow who's moved back to Bethlehem from Moab after the death of her husband Elimelech and her two sons. Ruth is her daughter-in-law who moved with her from Moab. So first let's read all of chapter four. It's only 22 verses. And then we will go back and we will chop it up and bite through it. So here it is. Ruth chapter four starting in verse one. Meanwhile, Boaz went up to the town gate and sat down there just as the guardian redeemer he had mentioned came along. Boaz said, come over here, my friend, sit down. And so he went over and sat down. Boaz took 10 of the elders of the town and said, sit here. And they did so. Then he said to the guardian redeemer, Naomi, who has come back from Moab, is selling a piece of land that belonged to our relative Elimelech. I thought I should bring the matter to your attention and suggest that you buy it in the presence of these seated here and in the presence of the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, do so. But if you will not tell me, so I will know. For no one has the right to do it except you. And I am next in line. I will redeem it, he said. Then Boaz said, excuse me, so the I will redeem it is the guardian redeemer responding back to Boaz's offer. Verse five. Then Boaz said, on the day you buy the land from Naomi, you also acquire Ruth the Moabite, the dead man's widow, in order to maintain the name of the dead with his property. At this, the guardian redeemer said, then I cannot redeem it because it might endanger my own estate. You redeem it yourself. I cannot do it. Now, in earlier times in Israel for redemption and transfer property be final, one party took off a sandal and gave it to the other. This was the method of legalizing transactions in Israel. Verse eight. So the guardian redeemer said to Boaz, buy it yourself. And he removed his sandal. Then Boaz announced to the elders and all the people, today you are witnesses that I have bought from Naomi all the property of Alimelech, Kilian, and Malon. I have also acquired Ruth the Moabite, Malon's widow, as my wife, in order to maintain the name of the dead with his property so that his name will not disappear from among his family or from his hometown. Today you are witnesses. Then the elders and all the people at the gate said, we are witnesses. May the Lord make the woman who is coming into into your home like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the family of Israel. May you have standing in Ephrath and be famous in Bethlehem. Through your offspring, the Lord gives you by this young woman. May your family be like that of Perez, who bore Tamar or who Tamar bore to Judah. Thirteen. So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife. When he made love to her, the Lord enabled her to conceive and she gave birth to a son. The women said to Naomi, praise be to the Lord, who this day has not left you without a guardian redeemer. May he become famous throughout Israel. He will renew your life and sustain you in your old age for your daughter-in-law who loves you and who is better to you than seven sons has given him birth. Then Naomi took the child in her arms and cared for him. The women living there said, Naomi has a son and they named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David. And then here, verse eighteen. This then is the family line of Perez. Perez was the father of Hezron. Hezron was the father of Ram. Ram was the father of Aminadab. Aminadab was the father of Nayshaun. Nayshaun the father of Salman. Salman the father of Boaz. Boaz the father of Obed. Obed the father of Jesse. And Jesse the father of David. All right, so now let's rewind back to verse one. And let's walk through this a little bit. And I don't know about you all, but I'm incredibly hot, so the jackets got to go. All right, so here we go. Opening, opening word of verse one. Meanwhile, meanwhile at the Hall of Justice, that remember when scripture was written, there are no chapter and verse notations. Nobody's writing this book down. You know what, June, this is where we should put chapter four, because it's the first chapter in the book. We should put chapter four, because it sounds right. Let's just put meanwhile and call it something new. So that meanwhile means to link us thematically to everything that happened to the end of chapter three. What happened at the end of chapter three? Boaz promised to go talk to the guardian redeemer to redeem Ruth. So meanwhile, Boaz went to the town gate and he sat down just as the guardian redeemer that he had mentioned came along. Again, just as, right? Ruth just so happened to be in this field, just at the right time, just as this, just as that. So again, you've got to choose here between coincidence and providence. So Boaz first gets the guardian redeemer, the guy who he mentioned is in line ahead of him. So for those of you who are jumping in this story, here's the one thing you need to understand about the Book of Ruth. In the Old Testament, there was a practice called Leverett or Leveright marriage. And what it means is that when Naomi's husband had passed away and Ruth's husband had passed away, that means that their family line is going to die out. Somebody from their family has to marry Ruth and get her pregnant so that she can have a child and that child can carry on the legal descendancy of her deceased husband. So that's the whole purpose of what's been portrayed out here on these passages is this is what's happening. So Boaz knows he's second in line. He's got to get the guy who's first in line to either do the right thing or abdicate his privilege so that Boaz can step up. So Boaz gets the guy first. I also think it's super interesting. He's never named. He's always just the guy. He's never named. And I think part of that is, is because culturally he refuses to do the right thing. And if you were to read back in Deuteronomy, like if you're not going to do the right thing for your family, you like get smacked in the face and people spit at you. And like it's a whole bad deal. So I think the whole reason that this character's name is not mentioned is a matter of disrespect. He did not do right by his family. So Boaz first gets the guardian redeemer guy ahead of him in line to sit down at the town gate. So here's the other thing you need to understand coming out of verse one. The town gate is the place where official business is handled. They're about to do an official transaction, a transaction of land. That land is going to include Ruth as a wife in order to like when when young people get married today, what do they have to go to the clerk of the court and get a marriage license? Why? Because I can perform a marriage right here in the church and it's not a problem. But if you want the state to recognize that marriage, then you've got to do in whatever state you live in. So if you live in New Jersey, for instance, Rachel's got to get her marriage license over there in New Jersey. If you're going to get married here in Delaware, you have to get a Delaware marriage license. If you're in Florida, so on and so forth. That doesn't mean that marriage is less important because we have to get the marriage license. What it means is that a marriage done in a church in order to be recognized by the state, you have to do business the right way. That's what the town gate here is, is the place of official conducting of business. Though that way in verse two. So first he gets the guardian redeemer says, yo, sit down. Then in verse two, he gets 10 elders from the town. Why? Witnesses. The elders of the town represent the town council. They represent the governing authority of the town of Bethlehem. If we are going to do a legal transfer of property, we've got to follow all the rules and laws of our day. Today, if you were going to sell your house, you would hire a realtor and probably a attorney or a real estate agency to handle all the legal paperwork. This is what Boaz is doing. He's getting all the pieces lined up. So in verse two, he gets 10 elders of the town so that they can witness the transaction. Verse three. Now he addresses the unnamed guardian redeemer directly. Naomi has come back from Moab is selling the piece of land that belonged to our relative, a limelight. Now, why is Naomi selling a limelight land? Because Naomi's a woman and at this point in history, she is not allowed to own land. So the land is still technically under the name of her deceased husband, even though she's right there. It's a limelight land. Notice the way it's phrased. Naomi, who has come back from Moab, is selling the piece of land that belonged to a limelight. Verse four. Here, I got to say Boaz is he's just slick. He's just shrewd. I thought I should bring the matter to your attention and suggest that you buy it in the presence of these seated here and the presence of the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, do so. But if you will not tell me so that I will know. So Boaz is being really shrewd. He's saying, listen, my bro, I know you're ahead of me in line and you have the right to buy this land first. So I'm bringing it up so that you're either going to sign on the dotted line or you're going to buy it or you're going to pass on it. But either way, I've got to give you first bite. So notice in verse four, he doesn't mention Ruth. He only mentions the land. And this is this is key to the unnamed guy's response, which is why you're going to find out in a minute. He's not a very nice guy. So Boaz says, listen, Naomi's here. She's selling a limelight back 40. If you want it, you need to step up and get it. Because if you don't want it, I want it. And notice at the end of verse four, I will redeem it. He said, that's the unnamed guardian redeemer. He's like, yeah, I could use some more land. I'll figure out what to do with that. Then verse five, here comes the turn. Verse five, Boaz says, on the day you buy the land from Naomi, you also acquire Ruth, the Moabite, the dead man's widow, in order to maintain the name of the dead with this property. So the property belonged to a limelight. Because Malon was a limelight son, the property should have gone to Malon. But Malon died without an heir. So whoever redeems the property is responsible to marry Ruth and impregnate Ruth so that that child can inherit Malon's property. Does that make sense? So I got an email this week and somebody was asking me, how is Ruth's child or Boaz's son, but also Malon's son? Because the whole point of leave and right marriage is to continue the legal descendancy for Malon, who's already died at this point. So I did a deep dive on it. And here's the answer. The child born to Ruth and Boaz is both Boaz's biological child and Malon's inheritor. So Boaz, when he marries Ruth and they have a child, that child is Boaz's full son, but is also the legal inheritor of Malon's property. So in this sense, the child is both the natural born child of Boaz, but also the inheritor or the descendant, the legal descendant of Malon. And in doing this, the guardian redeemer redeems Malon's inheritance so that it is passed on to one of Malon's descendants and also redeems Ruth. Because if Ruth doesn't have any children, if Naomi doesn't have any male children, they have no one to care for them as they get older. So Boaz knows all of this. He gets it. But notice what's really interesting. Verse five, Boaz makes sure to remind the guardian redeemer, listen, bro, when you get the back 40, you also have to marry Ruth because you have to impregnate Ruth so that Malon's descendants can inherit his land. You're buying the land, but you don't get to keep it because Malon's descendants still needs to inherit it. And that's what the end of verse five means. In order to maintain the name of the dead with this property, whoever Ruth's child is will be the inheritor of Malon's estate, which is sort of just sitting in limbo right now. We don't really do this in our society. And that's why you have to sort of understand the way they think in this society. Now, verse six. Don't shoot the messenger when I tell you what this verse means. At this, the guardian redeemer then said, I cannot redeem it because it might endanger my own estate. You redeem it yourself. Now, in English, that doesn't sound very offensive, right? No, I can't do it. If I buy that property over there, it might endanger my, you know, what I'm setting up for my kids. Now, let me tell you, like, so it's not wrong. The way it's translated in English is not wrong. It might endanger my own estate. But what it literally means is it might corrupt my descendants. This is a racial comment about Ruth being a Moabite. Because of his racial hatred for Ruth's ethnicity, he won't take the property because he would have to marry Ruth. And he would have to include Moabite ethnicity in his children and his grandchildren. And he dislikes the Moabite so much that he refuses to water down his descendants. The literal term there means it will corrupt my inheritance. Like I said, don't shoot. That's what he's saying. That's not what I'm saying. But I told you in the beginning of this book, if we ignore the racial tension that happens between Ruth and some of the Israelites, we ignore the grace of what God is doing through Boaz. Boaz is character is magnified through this unnamed guardian redeemer who's clearly racist, who cannot accept marrying Ruth because she's a Moabite and they're an Israelite. Now, remember what I told you about Boaz? Why is Boaz predisposed to accept the woman of faith who's an outsider? Because this entire book up until this point, Ruth has been portrayed as nothing but the perfect woman of faith. Remember I told you in the Hebrew Bible, the book of Ruth comes right after the book of Proverbs. Ruth is the living, breathing Proverbs 31 woman. They've told you in chapter two and again in chapter three what kind of reputation she has as a godly woman. The whole book, Ruth's a good gal. And then right here, this dude just cannot see past her skin. That's literally what's happening. Why is it that Boaz is predisposed to respond to a woman of faith, no matter what her ethnicity is? Who is Roe? Who is Boaz's mother? Rahab, the harlot from the book of Joshua, who turned on her entire city to place her faith in God. And her faith in God saved her and her entire family when the walls of Jericho fell and the Israelites moved in. That's his mama. If there is anybody who was raised to understand that a woman of faith doesn't have to look like everybody else in my town to be a woman of faith, it's Boaz. He was raised by Rahab and now he's responding to the right way that he was raised. He sees the faith in Ruth's life and he knows this guy. I mean, we all right, you know, you people in your town, especially those who are the from here people. Right. So those who are from here, you know, you're folk, you know, that one racist neighbor you have who just talks a little too much when he's drunk. Right. You know who that is. Boaz knows this guy. He knows that this guy is going to refuse to do this because of his racial hatred for Moabites. And all Boaz has to do is get him to admit it in front of the town council. Right. When these 10 other elders are standing there, bro, this is a business transaction and I'm going to and that's why I think the way Boaz lays up the offer is very wise because he knows the guy wants the land. But he doesn't want to have to take Ruth with the land. And that is the entire point of leave a right marriage is to continue descendancy for a deceased relative. You can't take the land and not take Ruth. Boaz gets it. And now Boaz uses this dude's own racist perspective in order to do what God wants done. So in verse six, Guardian, I cannot do it. I cannot. I cannot redeem it because it would endanger my estate or it would corrupt my inheritance. And then verse seven is called a parenthetical note. So I'm going to go ahead and tell you verse seven is probably not original to the Book of Ruth. How do I know that? Because the original readers of the Book of Ruth would not need the cultural explanation explained to them. That makes sense. Just like if you were to write an email or a Facebook post and you were to mention the Fourth of July and then later you were to mention fireworks. That seems totally normal to us as Americans. Right. But if you were to take that email over to Ireland, somebody would have to explain to somebody who's not part of our culture. Well, what do fireworks have to do with the beginning of the month of July? They don't have it because that's cultural perspective. So verse seven is what they call a parenthetical note. It was added anywhere from a couple of decades to a couple centuries later so that the readers of the book would fully understand what's going on. Does that mean that it's not that it's bad? No, it doesn't mean that it's bad. It means that that was left there so that we could understand the next verse. Because just let me read it to you. If I read verse six, at this the guardian redeemer said, then I cannot redeem it because it might endanger my own estate. You redeem it. I cannot do it. Skip seven. So the guardian redeemer said to Boaz, buy it for yourself. And he removed his sandal. Right. Do you see how that makes a whole lot of nonsense? If you skip over the parenthetical note in verse seven. That doesn't mean the parenthetical note is bad. It just means that the scriptures we have today are the product of the Holy Spirit's inspiration and history as they were copied time and time and time again. So verse seven explains why he removed his sandal in verse eight. Because if not, you're like. I mean, and growing up, you know, living in Florida for so many years, like anytime somebody takes off a sandal, somebody's going to duck. Because there's a Hispanic woman who's going to spin it around a corner and hit somebody in the head. That's like just culturally. That's why verse seven is there. It explains that the removing of the sandal is part of a legal transaction. The guardian redeemer who is supposed to redeem Ruth refuses to do so. And now by taking off the sandal, he is putting Boaz in the correct positioning in order to redeem. Then Boaz announced to the elders and all the people today, your witnesses that I have bought from Naomi. Do you notice that? He didn't buy it from a limo like he bought it from Naomi. All the property of a limo like Killian and Maylon, all the male relatives who died in the very beginning of chapter one. And verse 10, I have also acquired Ruth the Moabite, Maylon's widow, as my wife. It's not interesting until 410, you don't know which daughter-in-law was married to which son. Right? In the very beginning, we meet Orpah and Ruth and we hear about Maylon and Killian. But it's not right here until verse 10 that you understand which daughter-in-law was actually married to which son. So here it tells us Ruth was married to Maylon in order to maintain the name of the dead. The child that Ruth bears will get Maylon's property and inheritance. So that the name will not disappear from among his family or from among his hometown. Today, you are all witnesses. So now the elders, and keep in mind Boaz has set all this up, so it's done right the first time. So now the elders in verse 11, they respond, we are witnesses. May the Lord make the woman who is coming into your home. Who is that? Ruth. Right? May the Lord make the woman who is coming into your home, Ruth. May the Lord make Ruth like Rachel and Leah who built up the family of Israel. May you have standing in Ephrath and be famous in Bethlehem. The elders of the town are praising Boaz and praying that he and Ruth be blessed with many children. Why are they doing that? Because Boaz is doing what is right in the eyes of the Lord by redeeming Ruth. And redeeming Ruth provides for Naomi. Because now someone will inherit their family land and someone will be there to care for Naomi as she gets older. And to also care for Ruth as she gets older. Remember, if Ruth is Naomi's daughter-in-law and we calculated Ruth's age is approximately no older than 26. I'd say 24 to 26 max. Then Naomi has got to be old enough to be her mother-in-law. So Naomi needs someone to take care of her. So verse 12. Through the offspring the Lord, notice the capital letters there, covenant name for God. Through the offspring that Yahweh gives you by this young woman. Who's the young woman? Ruth. May God bless the offspring that Ruth will give you. And may your family be like that of Perez who bore Tamar to Judah. Any of you who know your Bible stories know that Tamar was also a daughter-in-law. Who was left out in the cold and had to be redeemed. Now the Tamar story involves some prostitution and some deception and some more 50 shades like stuff that we don't have to get into with this story. But interesting the people who are getting tied together here. This is another daughter-in-law who was redeemed through having a child. So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife. So from the very beginning of the book. If we watch the progression of what happened to Ruth. In chapter one verse one. Ruth is a Moabite widow. Then at the end of chapter one she and Naomi move back to Bethlehem. And she is an outsider. An outsider who's just gleaning the fields as a poor person. Then she meets Boaz. At the end of chapter two and chapter three Boaz lets her join his servants. Go behind my servants. By the way drop some stuff. Make sure she gets the good stuff. Don't just leave her the mess. Give her the goods. Then all of a sudden so she's gone from being a widow to being an outsider to being a servant to being wife. That progression finishes here in verse 13. So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife. And when he made love to her the Lord enabled her to conceive. Why does he why does the book say the Lord enabled her to conceive. How long was she married to Malon. Anybody remember. A decade. Ten years. Ruth was married to Malon for 10 straight years and never produced an heir. That's the backstory to the entire book and why the leave right marriage matters is because Ruth never had a kid. And here now that Ruth is home in Bethlehem. God blesses her opens her womb and now she is able to conceive and she gives birth to a son. Ruth is now redeemed fully made a wife. She is no longer an outsider. And then look at verse 14. The women said to Naomi. Praise be to the Lord. Yahweh covenant name for God. Who this day has not left you. Without a guardian redeemer. May he become famous throughout Israel. I have to tell you I think verse 14 is the coolest verse of the entire book. Do me wrong. I like I like I like everything about the book. I definitely like the whole uncovered your feet Netflix and chill moment last week. That was awesome. But verse 14 strikes me as the coolest verse in the book. We're so used to thinking about the book of Ruth with with Boaz as the guardian redeemer redeeming Ruth. But when you know that Naomi is the focus of the book we have to ask ourselves who is Naomi's guardian redeemer. It's the baby. Obed is born and redeems Naomi from being barren from being childless from being bitter. Remember in the beginning she tried to tell the women of Bethlehem when she came home. Don't call me Naomi anymore. Call me bitter because God took all my happiness away here in verse 14. Praise be to Yahweh who this day has not left you without a guardian redeemer. May he become famous throughout Israel. Verse 15. He will renew your life and sustain you in your old age for your daughter-in-law who loves you who is better to you than seven sons has given him birth. Obed is born Naomi's redeemer. Now why is Obed Naomi's redeemer. Because Obed inherits the land from Limelech to Malon to Obed and Obed redeems Naomi from loneliness from bitterness from no provision. And Obed is born a guardian redeemer. That verse gets overlooked almost every time we talk about Ruth. We're so locked in on the story of Boaz and Ruth Boaz and Ruth Boaz and Ruth that we forget that Naomi's here the whole time. She's the prodigal mother-in-law of the Old Testament. She came home after following her husband out to the land of Moab lost her husband lost her sons comes home with one daughter-in-law who loves her to bits. Right. I will lay my head down where you lay where you go I go. I say what you say is what I say. And here it comes full circle. Ruth is redeemed by Boaz. Lord opens Ruth's womb. Boaz impregnates Ruth. Ruth follows through nine months worth of pregnancy. And here comes a baby. And this baby is born the redeemer of Naomi. Verse 16. Then Naomi took the child in her arms and cared for him. The verbiage there is very much like and nurse Tim cared for him. She she got to raise her own grandchild. Verse 17. And the woman living there said Naomi has a son. Obed is born the redemptive son of Naomi. Now remember in Hebrew that they don't really make a distinction between son grandson great son grandson father grandfather great grandfather. So I we can call Jesus the son of David but he's not actually Solomon's brother. Because in their language son means male child from the lineage of it doesn't necessarily mean direct child. And so when they say Naomi has a son technically Naomi in our language we would say Naomi has a grand son. In English we make a distinction based on generations here in the Hebrew they don't exactly make that. And that's why when we get to the genealogies and this is going to come up when we get to VBS right. When when you're going through the Bible and you're trying to calculate the age of the earth based on the genealogies of scripture. I'm going to teach you a term it's called generational compression in the Hebrew. You can call someone's grandson or even their great grandson their son and it is grammatically correct. Whereas in our language today we wouldn't do that. I mean we have words like I mean just in my in my house the other day we were talking about cousins. And you know what's the difference between a first cousin and a second cousin. And what's the difference between a second cousin once removed and all this jazz. And so just in case anybody wants to know because I had to look it up. Cousins share a grandparent second cousins share a great grandparent. If you have this to get up to grandparent but they're a child down here that's the first cousin once removed. If they're to great grandparent second cousin once removed you have to get to the shared descendancy. Why I had to learn all of that I don't know the children who live in my house ask weird questions man. That's the freebie in today's sermon how to know what a first cousin a first cousin once removed versus a second cousin. They're not the same thing. So here in verse 17 Naomi has a son and immediately we are going to tie who that son is. To the greatest king that Israel's ever known. Watch that in one verse Naomi has a son and they named him Obed and he was the father of Jesse the father of David. This kid who is the guardian as a baby the guardian redeemer is also what we would say the grandfather of the greatest king that Israel is known up to this point. So obviously so now let's talk logic right. Could the book of Ruth have been written before David was king. No you're totally right. No. How do you write verse 17 if the kids haven't been born yet. How did you know that Obed was the father of Jesse and Jesse was the father of David. Furthermore how do you know to give a mess about who David is. So that tells us when the book when the events of the book take place is different from when the book is written. Right. Just like when you and I approach the Gospels. Let's just take the gospel of Mark probably the first gospel written probably written in the mid 50s. Mark wrote in the mid 50s about events that took place in what 80 27 to 30 but he wrote it later. So verse 17 gives us a huge clue as to when the book of Ruth is written. I'm going to go on say I think the book of Ruth had to be written during the life of King David. But after he became the greatest king. So could Solomon be alive at this point. Yeah maybe but definitely David had to be alive and David had to be king because you wouldn't have written a book about you know. So Obed was the father of Jesse. Jesse's father David. Somebody goes who's David. He's the kid in the with the sheep outside. Well why did we make him. I don't know. That's just what they told me to write. Right. It doesn't make sense if David's not important yet. So this ties us from the guardian Redeemer born redeeming Naomi all the way down to David and then 18 to 22 adds one additional item. And it's what's really neat. And this is why you don't want to skip over genealogies in scripture. Genealogies are fortune cookies. Nobody else likes cookies. I got one giggle when I mentioned fortune cookies. Genealogies are like biblical fortune cookies. You have to kind of crack them open in order to see what's happening. So verse 17 ties us from from Ruth having Obed to King David. So when verse 18 to 22 expands that out then we have to ask ourselves the question why did they do that. And in verse 18 we go back to Perez Perez from the family line of Perez was the father of Hezrin Hezrin the father of Ram Ram the father of Minidab and Minidab Nashaan Nashaan Salman Salman Boaz Boaz Obed. Why do we go all the way back to Perez because Perez is the child of Judah and Tamar by getting us to Perez. The scripture ties us all the way back to the line of Judah but specifically the line of Judah through a daughter-in-law who had to be redeemed. So when I put all of this together what does this mean. This means that I'm looking for the lineage of the line of Judah. When I put all of this together what does this mean. This means that I'm looking for the lineage from Judah through Perez which is a daughter-in-law who is left as an outsider who got redeemed. Follow through to Rahab an outsider a woman of faith who then is the mother of Boaz who then we find another outsider woman of faith who's brought in to the family and ultimately gets us to David. David at the time was the creme de la creme greatest king Israel had ever known. Now obviously we understand that Israel has a greater king than David but they don't have the advantage of the back half the Old Testament or anything in the New Testament yet they didn't know that. Now I would submit to you that if the scriptures are inspired by the Holy Spirit which I believe they are the Holy Spirit knows where we're going. Even if the writer of the book of Ruth did not the Holy Spirit knew and what we see here portrayed in this closing genealogy. We see a line a lineage from which would come a child born as a redeemer all the way back from the line of Judah and that child's lineage would incorporate those who came by faith into a final redemption. You put all that together and it's a fantastic Old Testament arrow pointing us to Jesus especially when we mentioned Rachel and Leah. They were the two two primary wives of Jacob. Jacob of course brings us the 12 tribes of Israel. Then we get to Judah Judah to Rahab Rahab to Ruth Ruth all the way to David. There is a foreshadowing of a redeemer child who would be born who's greater than King David. And obviously when we fast forward to the New Testament that's pretty much exactly what the angel Gabriel says to Mary. You are going to have a son and he will redeem his people from their sins. If there was ever a moment to see a foreshadowing of a redeemer child it's Obed. Obed is listed as the redeemer of Naomi in the same way that Boaz is the redeemer of Ruth.