Well, good morning and Merry Christmas. Thank you so much for joining us on what is, I guess, Christmas Sunday. Mel, did I remember to unmute that? Probably not. There we go. Is it on now? There we go. Sorry for everybody who's online. When I do double duties to sound technician, I apparently forget how to do my job. So, good morning and Merry Christmas. Thank you for joining us for worship on Christmas Sunday, the final Sunday before we celebrate the birth of the Savior. For those of you who do not know me, my name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here at Catalyst. We are in the middle of a series you saw in the video, Heaven Came Down. All month long, we have been building our understanding of Christmas leading to this Sunday. And then the final sermon in the series will actually be Christmas Eve. Whether you will be joining us here on the Wilmington campus Christmas Eve or you'll be joining us on our live stream. That'll be sort of the end of this series. I want to give you the key thought that kind of strings all of these messages together. Here it is. Christmas didn't happen in a vacuum. The birth of Jesus is a major event in a much larger story. And you've heard me say before, the mistake of Christmas is that when we get to a Sunday like today and we begin to just jump into the Christmas story, we forget that there was an entire Old Testament that happened before the New Testament. And that events preceded that shape it. So let's just sort of surmise everything we've viewed so far in this series. When we opened up message number one was the expectation of Christmas. We saw there are certain expectations coming out of the Old Testament for what the promised Messiah would be. Then we looked at the lineage of Christmas and we looked at the genealogies of Jesus and what that had to show. Last week we looked at the dating of Christmas and when Jesus was likely born. This morning I want to take us to the witnesses of the first Christmas. So this morning we're going to look at the Gospel of Luke chapter two. So if you have your Bibles or the catalyst app, I want to invite you to turn there. The Gospel of Luke chapter two and we're going to look at the very first witnesses of Christmas. Now this is typically one of those standard Christmas passages. So whether you've been to church once or you've been to church for several Christmases, this is probably a passage is going to sound very familiar to you. So I want to read it first and then after we read it, we'll go break it down and we'll observe what we can see in the text. So here we go. Luke chapter two, verse one. In those days, Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a Roman census should be taken of the entire, excuse me, that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. Verse two. This was the first census that took place while Corrinius was governor of Syria and everyone went to their own town to register. So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the house of David, because he belonged to the house and line of David. He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger because there was no guest room available for them. And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. An angel of the Lord appeared to them and the glory of the Lord shone around them and they were terrified. But the angel said to them, do not be afraid. I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all people. Today in the town of David, a savior has been born to you. He is the Messiah, the Lord. This will be assigned to you. You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger. Suddenly, a great company of heavenly hosts appeared with the angel, praising God and saying, glory to God in the highest heaven and on earth. Peace to those on whom his favor rests. Verse 15, when the angel had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about. They hurried off and found Mary and Joseph and the baby who was lying in the manger. So I want you to rewind and take it back. You just pulled up the notes in the app and they don't match. So Casey's not going to be able to fix it because while I was reading and pretending to ignore everybody was walking around, I realized I never put them there. So you might as well go tell Casey she can't fix that because I forgot to do that. So for all of you don't realize what happened. That's the ADHD. I can't ignore the motion. But what I realize is I wrote the whole sermon, but I forgot to put it in the app in the special place. So for those of you used to following in the app, I apologize. That's my failure and no amount of searching. Casey's going to find the right file because it has to be like coded and programmed. And I'm just now sitting up here realizing I'm sorry, Kerrigan. I forgot to do my job this week. So I apologize. But yes, somebody somebody could go rescue Casey because there's no sermon notes to be found. But I'll say this. If you want today's sermon notes, please just let me know that on your Kinect card and I will automatically just email them to you. What Casey can do, Megan, if you want to tell her what Casey can do is she can put the Q&A question button in the app. That way people can still ask questions. Thank you, Gretchen. I just realized I didn't mention that. So Luke, Chapter two, what we've built to is now the arrival of Jesus. We've seen the expectation. We've seen the lineage. We've looked at the dating. And now we're to the moment where Jesus actually arrives. And I think we will be remiss if we didn't look at who God chose to be the first witnesses of his son's incarnation. You have to ask yourself, is the birth of Jesus a coincidence or is it providence? Is it a coincidence that Jesus is born in the town of Bethlehem exactly where the Old Testament prophesied that he would be born? Is it a coincidence that Jesus is born in the line of David and in the line of Abraham as the Old Testament predicted? Either those are coincidence or it's providence. I would argue it's prophetic providence. And if it is indeed prophetic providence, then the next question we have to ask is, are the angel appearing to the first witnesses a direct divine choice by God or an accident? Barry, did the angel just like throw a dart? Did he just Google map where he was going to show up and be like, oh, let's see if anybody's in this field tonight? No, I don't think so. So again, thank you for the rescue, Miss Casey. Those of you who have the catalyst app, there is now a Q&A button right there. Just reload the page, even if you're joining us online and you're obviously if you're watching this on your phone, then Dr. Doug, if you'll please drop a link in the online chat to the question form. But if you're here in the room, you could pull up the catalyst app, press that Q&A button. You'll still be able to ask questions and I will answer those questions at the tail end of our service. So I'm on the camp that says I don't think the witnesses are an accident. I don't think God sent an entire heavenly host of angels to a specific town at a specific moment. And it was an accident who was there. And if it is true that it's not an accident, then we should be asking ourselves why? John, why did God pick this moment? Why did God pick these people? And I think the answer to that question is something very valuable for us to discover. So let's jump in here. Luke, Chapter two, verse one. In those days, Caesar Augustus stop. I'm not going to get the whole sense. Stop. Last week we talked about dating systems, right? We talked about the dating system that used to be based on the founding of Rome. The founding of Rome. And then we talked about our new dating system that's founded on the birth of Jesus. At the time that Luke wrote his gospel, they were used to telling time by who is the king. They were used to telling time by who is Caesar. Or if you look at the Old Testament during the reign of King so and so, during the reign of so and so, this is their normal way of keeping time. So when you come to a passage in Luke, Chapter two, verse one that says in those days, Caesar Augustus, Luke is saying this is a matter of history. This happened on the pages of history. And I can tell you when it happened, just as much as here in America, if we were to say that an event happened during a particular presidency, right? If an event happened while President Reagan was president, those those of you who weren't born yet, there was a president named Reagan. I get it. I'm old, right? But you would immediately know what time period I was speaking about. If I said the first Bush versus the second Bush, or if I were to say Clinton, or if I were to go back and say JFK, or if I would even go back and say the presidency of Thomas Jefferson, you immediately move to a specific era of our country's history. This is the same thing in Luke, Chapter two, verse one. He's saying in the days when Caesar Augustus was Caesar, he issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. Verse two, this was the first census that took place while Corineus was governor of Syria. I'm not going to unpack the entire Corineus problem. For those of you who are not aware, there's a challenge with this cause. We know that Jesus was born under the reign of Herod the Great, who was the king of a little town called Judea. And yet we also know that Corineus was governor of Syria in AD 6 to 7. Well, Jesus was born in AD, or excuse me, in 6 to 4 BC, and Corineus isn't governor until 6 to 7 AD. How do I understand this difficulty? And the reality is the word first in this verse right here isn't just first, like as in first in line, but it means first as in it happened to be for other things. So it could just as easily say this was before the census that took place while Corineus was governor of Syria. Verse three, and everyone went to their town to register. There is actual evidence of another thing. A lot of people like to take stabs at our Christmas story and say, well, you know, we don't have any record of Caesar asking everybody to act to their hometown. So your Bible must be false. And you know, we actually have records where God said to, or not God, where Caesar said to Egypt, I want you to do a census in Egypt. I want to know how many people live in that province. Or he went over to Syria. I want to know how many people live in that province. So no, we don't have to have the entire world like Caesar's not doing a census in South America in order to understand this is this part of that world. So verse four, Joseph went up from the town of Nazareth and Galilee to Judea to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the line in the house of David. Now, during the lineage sermon, we look deeply into the lineage of Jesus in both of those records. And we know that the Old Testament promises us that the promised Messiah of God has to be born not only from the line of Abraham, he must also be born from the line of David. Why is that important? Well, because if you were to start debating with a Muslim, who is the correct prophet of God, the Old Testament's requirement that the Messiah or the anointed one of God must not only be a son of Abraham, but must also be a son of David becomes a very important detail. Because in order to claim that Mohammed actually is the promised one of God and not Jesus, you would also have to prove that Mohammed's lineage comes from the line of David. And then for those who were here for the lineage sermon, also proving dodges the curse and still catches the blessing. All of that would have to apply to any other messianic figure. If you weren't here for that sermon, you could find all of the media in the catalyst app. So Joseph travels to Bethlehem because that is his hometown. That's where he'd daddy be from. Right. That's the that's the modern day Bill translation. That's where he'd daddy be from. So he travels to Bethlehem. Again, is this coincidence that Micah chapter five, verse two, tells us that the Messiah is going to be born in Bethlehem. And all of a sudden, there's this random carpenter who has to travel back to his daddy's hometown. Where is Joseph? And so when we find Jesus in the Gospels, he's called Jesus of Nazareth. Where do you think Joseph's carpentry business is based in Nazareth? So Joseph is not going to where he currently lives. He's going to where he daddy be from, which is why he travels to Bethlehem. Again, coincidence, providence. Then you get to verse five. He went there to register in obedience to this to the census with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. Now, some people want to say, why is Mary to use our modern day vernacular? She'd say, well, she was engaged to Joseph. Right. She was engaged. For those of you who don't know, we just had a wonderful engagement in our church. So everybody give a round of applause for Dan and Maria. Maria, wave at everybody. Yep. So if you haven't if you haven't met them or see the ice skating rink that she's currently walking around with, make sure to congratulate her and tell her Merry Christmas. But there's something different about Maria and Dan's and well, there's several things different about Maria and Dan's engagement. Let's be honest. But one of the big things is culture. In our culture, when a young man proposes to a young woman, she's still a member of her family of origin. And it's not until the wedding ceremony that the bride and the groom separate from their family of origin and they begin the new family together. That is our cultural practice of marriage. But that's not the way first century Jews looked at the view of marriage at the time of this moment here when she is pledged to be married to him. Here's how this plays out. Young man falls in love with young woman desires to have young woman as his wife. Young man doesn't just go to the store, buy a ring, put a wardrobe in the middle of a field with fake snow. You haven't heard the story. You got to ask him. The young man goes to his father and says, Father, I have found the woman I would like to make my bride. Dad says, OK, then the father of the groom goes and speaks to the father of the bride. And they negotiate a contractual deal. And the family of the groom must pay money to the family of the bride for the bride price. Why is that? Well, because in this day and age, and I'll just use Sophia and Jerry and Jen because they're right here. And Sophia's hair looks really great today. You all got to give her a compliment on that, too. If a young man wanted to come and marry Sophia, and that means you're taking Sophia away from the family business. So that means that Jerry and Jen are not just losing a daughter. They're losing a valuable member of their family's business operation. You have to pay them for that privilege because whatever your family is right in this instance, we're talking about Joseph being a carpenter. If Joseph the carpenter was trying to marry Sophia, guess what? Sophia is now going to work in Joseph the carpenter's business and no longer work in mom and dad's business. So this is a contractual obligation and a price is paid for the bride ahead of time. Then once that contractual obligation is made and Joseph's father comes and speaks to Jerry, they agree on the bride price. The bride price is paid. Sophia still lives at home, but she is now the bride to be of Joseph the carpenter. She is a member of his family, even though they won't live together yet until the marriage happens. So what happens after the bride price has been paid? Well, the groom has to go. He's got to go build his house. He has to show that he can fully provide for his wife. Then they have the wedding. They have like a week long throwdown party celebration. And at that point, the bride transfers her actual residence to the groom. So in this moment here where it says in verse five, Mary, who is pledged to be married, all of that contractual thing has already happened. Joseph the carpenter's father had spoken to Mary's father. An agreement, a contractual agreement had been made. A bride price had been paid, which is why Mary has to travel with Joseph. When it's time for Joseph's family to be counted, because even though they have not celebrated the wedding yet, the relationship has been legally established through the contractual arrangement of the father to the father. Now, that's very different from our individualized society today. In our individualized focus, we still have a very small and I mean, minute remnant of this tradition. And I'm not going to ask anybody to raise their hand, but just think for a moment. How many of you have ever heard of a groom asking for permission to marry a bride? Right. I made that call. I actually made that call twice. I asked my wife's mother and I asked her father, because at the time Mel was living with her mom and not with her dad. And so I want to make sure I showed him the honor of calling him. But we all know who was really calling the shots. That was my mother-in-law, and she's probably watching. So she needs understand how important she is. Merry Christmas, Ma. We still have a vestige of this system, but it's not exactly the same. So you need to understand the whole reason for verse five. And again, is this coincidence? The whole reason that Mary has to travel with Joseph is the bride price has already been paid. She has been transferred to his family. But it's not consummated. Their wedding is not living with him yet. Keep that in your brain. Then we get to verse six. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born. Now you may be thinking, well, okay, is that literally just a day? No. Sometimes the census could take up to a couple of months, depending on what they were counting, how they were counting it. So Joseph the carpenter would have had to go to Bethlehem and stay there for at least a little bit. I'm not saying he was there for the whole year, but he was there at exactly the right time. For Mary to give birth in fulfillment of Micah chapter five, verse two. Coincidence or providence? I think providence. Then we get to verse seven. She gave birth to her firstborn. Now a lot of people want to use this verse to illustrate that this is how we know that Mary had other children. I think it's true. Mary did have other children. But this word firstborn could be used of a family if they only had one kid. How many of you are in the room only children? If you're home and you're only child, you can raise your hand too. Don't feel left out. I know me and Maria, we laugh about it all the time. We're only children. That also makes us firstborns. So there are verses in the Bible to prove that Mary and Joseph had other children. This is not the greatest one of those. But I want to point out that it does illustrate that Jesus is in fact the very firstborn child of Mary's womb. And then we see very two very important details in verse seven. She wrapped him in cloths and she placed him in a manger. I want to take the two issues separately. First, the wrapping in cloths is not swaddling. We think about it that way today. Why? Because that's how we care for babies. Right? My my adorable, adorable child. My my adorable great niece, Eliana, when Ali wants to bundle her up, what do we do? You know, you wrap it over, get a little tight, get some friction, tuck it back, you tuck it in and you have like a baby bundle. Right? The baby's all bundled this way. That's not what this is in their day and age. The mother would wrap every limb independently to make it straight. So Jesus's right leg is wrapped to keep it straight. Jesus's left leg is wrapped right arm, left arm, pokey pokey. Right. Somebody was thinking it. I know. Why do they do this, though? Because we don't. Well, let's ask you that. Why do we swaddle babies? Because we love them, because we see it as a sign of motherly care. The same reason that Mary did it. The only difference is they wrap the baby differently. What I want you to see in verse seven is the wrapping of the limbs. They believed in their day that wrapping each of the rims limbs individually would help give strength to the baby's limbs as they grew. Whether that is true or not is debatable. What's not debatable is that they did it and why they did it. Does that make sense? I can tell you exactly what happened historically without having to agree that what was done historically is actually accurate, but it is accurate to their day. Now, that probably is not going to be a really special thing. There's lots of mothers who love their babies. There's lots of mothers who swaddle or wrap their babies. But there's a second detail placed in a manger. This is absolutely out of the ordinary. We don't live or many of us don't live in an agrarian culture today. But if you lived on a farm and had farm animals, you would have to have a place where there's farm animals would feed the feed trough where you would put the the slop or you would put the the the the wood. The wheat or whatever your animals were eating. It was a place where animals would slobber on it. It was a place near animal feces. It's not a hypoallergenic baby station. Like you feel me. You go into a bathroom and you look for the baby station. That's not this. This is a very dirty place. And I think Luke is telling us this on purpose because we are seeing the divine come into our world in the dirty. That was Jesus's ultimate mission to bring the divine all the way down to the dirty. But being placed in a manger is the opposite of the wrapping of the limbs out of motherly care. So Luke gives a final detail in verse seven to explain the cognitive dissonance between why is Mary loved the baby so much to wrap the limbs but love him so little to put him in a manger. That doesn't make sense. So, Jen, you get one more detail. There was no guest room available for them. Now I'm going to burst a couple Christmas bubbles here. So put your seat backs at tray tables in your lock position. There is no innkeeper in this story. Now, if you've if you're new to the Bible or you did not grow up going to church, that's not really funny. But if you were like me and you grew up in church and you've been to one or more. I'll just show hands. How many people have been to a Christmas play that had an innkeeper and they said, I'm sorry, there's no room in the end. Right. A bunch of us. Did you notice there's no innkeeper in this text. Do you know why in our culture we think about an innkeeper? It's because of the word in I and I and N in our cultural language. The word in is a place you go and rent a room. But this is not written in our culture. This happened in six to four B.C. in Judea. There is no there's no Motel 6. They didn't make it to like Motel 6 Bethlehem or Hotel de Bethlehem. You want nicer towels. In their day and age, when travelers would travel through a town, individual residents would open up their homes and in a show of hospitality would allow you to stay in a guest room in someone's home because it was dangerous to sleep out on the streets at night. I mean, Bethlehem, they throw down. People could get robbed. People could get murdered. Just think about Jesus. The story of the Good Samaritan. He was straight up just walking on a road and got jacked. That's a theological term walking on a road and got jacked. I need you to see the fact and I do like the way the NIV translates this first seven. There was no guest room available for them. That does not mean only in Jim's house because Jim is a stingy Grinch. It means there's no guest room in any house in all of Bethlehem. That's what that means. So verse seven to put it all together. Mary gives birth to Jesus. She wraps his individual limbs to keep them straight as a sign of motherly care. She places him in a very dirty, odd place. And the explanation for that problem of why the care and the seeming lack of care is that there's so many people in Bethlehem. There are no houses with guest rooms left. Now answer one question. Why are there so many people in Bethlehem? The census. Now do you see how it all fits together? There's no innkeeper as much as over the years, creatures have like really maligned and like there's the myth. The innkeeper is a Christian mythological figure. He doesn't even exist in scripture. What's true is there were so many people traveling to Bethlehem because that's where they daddy be from. There were no guest rooms left in anyone's home. And that's why Jesus is born in a stable instead of a guest room. Then we get down to verse eight. This is the announcement of the first Christmas. Verse eight. And there were shepherds. Stop. You notice Luke changes his focus. And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. I dealt with this in the last sermon. We talked about timing. It is likely that the shepherds were in the fields between March through November in their climate. So but what we don't know is we don't know for sure. Number one, you don't know what year Jesus was born. Could have been 6 B.C., 5 B.C., 4 B.C. And furthermore, we don't have the weather reports from those three years to know what winter was like. So you could take that as you will. Jesus was born sometime in those years. But I'm not going to harp too much on December 25th. We talked about that a little last week. What I want you to see is shepherds are living out in their fields, keeping watch over their flocks at night. Jesus is born in a stable next to animals. It's dirty. It's smelly. The shepherds are out in the fields living next to animals. It's dirty and it's smelly. For most of Christian culture, we romanticize the shepherd. I think we romanticize the shepherd because King David was a shepherd. And, you know, we super love the shepherd boy who defeats the becomes the warrior king. That trope really hits us hits us in the fields. We romanticize shepherds because Jesus called himself the Good Shepherd and Jesus, the son of God. So shepherds must be cool. I need you to understand that when Luke wrote this gospel, shepherds are outcast, dirty, good for nothing kinds of guys. They live in a culture that prides itself on ritual cleanliness, but they sleep in outside with animals. They don't get to shower very often. I mean, they're like Jim on a Tuesday, right? Again, coincidence or providence, Jesus comes as the son of God to a town that was prophesied hundreds of years before his arrival. There's no room and he's literally sleeping next to animals. And the witnesses that God sends to see the birth of the son of God are dirty outcasts sleeping next to animal coincidence or providence. I think it's just too it's too perfect. It's too good. So then verse nine, the angel appears to them and the glory of the Lord shone around them and they were terrified. Pretty much the normal reaction. Every time we see an angel show up at scripture, what's the very first thing every angel has to say? Don't be afraid. Yo, hold up. It's OK. Don't be afraid. Verse 10. Then the angel speaks. Do not be afraid. You then he says this. I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all people. Something interesting in the Greek that we don't have in English. It says I bring you good news. The word good news in Greek is Evangeliso. Guess what English word comes from that. Evangelized, right? To share the good news is literally Evangeliso. That's the word that Gabriel uses in this moment. He's literally saying I even go. Lee's oh you or I am evangelizing you. I am telling you the good news and then what's the scope of the good news that it will cause great joy for all people. Cause great joy for all personas, all people. Verse 11. Today in the town of David, which is the town they're right outside of Bethlehem again, prophesied hundreds of years before. A savior is born to you, the Messiah, the Lord, those three words, Savior, Messiah, Lord. I can only find one other verse in all of the New Testament where those three words appear together. Paul's letter to the Philippians. Today, again, Luke's writing history, so he's writing in time today, meaning the angel appeared to the shepherds the same exact night that Jesus Christ appeared. The angel said on that night that Jesus was actually born. It was on Jesus's birthday. Then town of David exactly where he was supposed to be born. I love the fact that he says born so people there was this first century heresy that Jesus wasn't a really human. He was like a Jedi holographic Jesus kind of figure. No, the angel said on that night, Jesus was actually born. And then he gives three words, Savior, Messiah and Lord. Really briefly, Savior is Jesus's mission. Messiah is Jesus's royalty and Lord is Jesus's authority. His mission, his loyal, his, his royalty and his authority are all described in this opening message to these dirty, stinky outcast shepherds who are in the middle of the field. But he doesn't stop there in verse 12. He not only tells them what has happened, but he tells them how to find it. And that's really important because the angel is pre expecting that when I'm done delivering this message, you're going to get up and do something. You're going to get up and go share. This will be assigned to you. You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger. The baby wrapped in cloth. I've already said this. Not uncommon, right? Lots of mommy's swaddle their babies. Not lots of mommy's put their babies in food sacks. Right? Nobody swaddles their baby and put them in a trash can. Nobody swaddles their baby with love and puts them in dirty sink water. You just don't do that. Why? Because it seems to be odd. So he's given the angel is giving the shepherds the dissonant way to find him. As soon as he said this, verse 13, suddenly a great company of heavenly host appeared with the angel. Now we're talking about a lot of angels, multiple angels. They're praising God. And this is what they say out loud in verse 14. Glory to God in the highest heaven and on earth. Peace on those on whom his favor rests. And then we get to verse 15. Now the angels left. There's the movement in time. Right? Now the angels left them going into heaven and the shepherds said to one another. Let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about. Interesting. We don't know how many shepherds are in this story. Shepherds plural. So it's minimum two. We don't know how large the flock is. We don't know how many were on their work crew pulling night shift for that night. All we know is it's a group of them. The very first question I want to ask when I get to heaven is how many stayed in the field? Right? You with me, Barry? Like how many stayed back to watch the sheep or did they all? So I was talking to my wife about it. Melanie thinks they all just left. They're like, um, angels showed up. We go in. You're not leaving the sheep. I need to see this. I don't know. But what I can tell you in verse 15 is as soon as the angels disappeared, they said, let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about the immediate understanding of the first witnesses of Christmas was a historical event that happened in real time in the place they were at. We did not mythologize Jesus's birth later to make him look like God. This is all we know. Real time. If Mary had had a Twitter feed, that's what have been there. 16. So they hurried off. There's their motivation. They hurried off and they found Mary and Joseph and the baby who was lying in the manger. You notice the repetition of the word. They're like, well, I'm going to go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened. They're like, well, I'm going to go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened. They're like, well, I'm going to go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened. You notice the repetition of that key detail. Who was lying in the manger? It's the one detail. Because let's just say we know there's a lot of people in town for the census. There are so many people in town that there are no guest rooms in anybody's home. Is it possible that there are other pregnant women in Bethlehem on this particular night? Yeah, sure. Because we don't know how big Bethlehem was. Is it possible that there might be one or two other pregnant women in Bethlehem? Is it possible that there might be one or two other babies in Bethlehem on this night? Yeah, probably. Is it possible that there are other babies in Bethlehem on this night that are swaddled up because their moms love them so much? Yeah, possible. Is it possible that there's another baby in Bethlehem who's swaddled up because their mom loves them? Who's in a manger? No. This is the key detail that because of the census led Mary and Joseph to the stable. They chose in and of themselves to use the manger. We don't have any record that they were told to do that. That's a choice for Mary and Joseph. But the angel, knowing of that choice, uses it and tells the shepherds, that's how you're going to find the right baby. Steven, don't just go find the first baby that's crying because that might not be the right one. Look for the one who's swaddled and loved by their mother, but also placed in the dirty, filthy sheep manger. You find that baby, that's the son of God. It's so, I mean, again, we romanticize the manger. You know, we make these cute little wooden mangers and we put some straw in it and you hit it with a cute little spotlight and it lights up. This is dirty, nasty. I mean, pig trough, pig trough, pig slobber all over the place, pig poop underneath of it. This is gross. This is dirty. It's disgusting. Why is the divine son of God in a dirty manger? Here's why, in my opinion. Now, I've told you everything from scripture. Here's the one part I get to editorialize. Why do I think in this passage, God chose the dirty outcasts who are out in the field? God could have sent an angel to the king. He could have sent an angel to the high priest. He could have sent an angel to all of the Levites who would have gathered all their instruments and showed up in Bethlehem and thrown down with an amazing first century worship service, glorifying God and praising him the way he deserves to be praised. He doesn't do any of that. He sends an angel to the dirty outcasts who are sitting right outside the town and only they, only they get to be the first witnesses for the divine incarnate son of God stepping into our planet. So I told you we romanticize shepherds because of King David, because of Jesus, but Luke saw the world very differently. The shepherds were dirty, distrusted outcasts in a society that was built on ritual cleanliness and power and In my opinion, Luke is using the shepherds to prepare us and his audience who is reading his text for the fact that Jesus didn't just come for the high class. Jesus didn't just come for the religious people. Jesus didn't just come for the people in government office. Jesus didn't just come for the people who had money. Jesus came for all people. And he illustrates that most powerfully. Jesus goes and brings his divinity into the dirty pig trough. And the only people who get to see him on his first night are the dirty smelly outcast shepherds that the rest of society would have written off and say, you're not good enough. Jesus goes and brings his divinity into the dirty pig trough. And the only people who get to see him on his first night are the dirty smelly outcast shepherds that the rest of society would have written off and say, you're not good enough.