Well, good morning. My name is Bill. Welcome to Catalyst and Merry Christmas. For all of you who brave the cold weather and the germs, thank you for coming to church today. We appreciate you. Here at Catalyst, we are about one thing, and that is loving people to life change in Christ. That's right. And one of the ways in which we transform our lives to be like Jesus is by studying His word. And so we're going to do that together. It's my privilege to walk us through the scriptures and hopefully maybe point out something that you haven't seen before. Now obviously since it's Christmas season, we are studying the Christmas story. And I'll be honest with you, preaching Christmas as a weekly pastor who pastors a church year after year, Christmas is the hardest time of the year. Because, Miss Andrea, let's be honest, you've probably heard the Christmas story before, right? We read these very classic, beautiful passages that, I don't know you, but I grew up on these Christmas stories. And so each year I try to bring something new or something fresh to you. And so this year I didn't come up with a really catchy title. My sermon series is just called Christmas. But what I want to do is specifically look at the way the Bible describes the coming of Christ. So let me give you the key thought that's going to wrap all of these messages together. So here it is. The Bible presents a beautifully multifaceted view of the birth of Jesus. He is more than just a baby in a manger. He is the Son of God. And so that's the aspect of the Nativity story that we're going to look at this morning. Now if you brought your Bibles with you, turn or tap with me to the Gospel of Luke. Luke chapter 1. And I owe you an apology. Last week we started in Matthew and we didn't do the big Bible story. And I went to bed last night going, oh my goodness, Bill, where have you been? So while you are turning to Luke, Luke is the third book in the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke. While you're turning there, let's review the big Bible story so we know how we got to where we started. Genesis 1, 1. This is kind of a question and answer. You'll get it. Genesis 1, 1. God creates the heavens and the earth. He creates two human beings and places them in the Garden of Eden. Then Genesis chapter 3. Sin happens. They get kicked out of the Garden. Genesis chapter 9. God sends a flood to punish the sin of the world. He tells a gentleman named Noah to build a big boat. Noah and his three sons and their wives, they survive the flood. They restart humanity. Genesis chapter 12. God selects a very specific man and makes a covenant with him. And he becomes the first patriarch of Israel. That man's name is? Abraham. Abraham's son is? Isaac. I heard it. Isaac's son is? Jacob. Heard it again. Jacob then has 12 sons. The youngest, well technically 13. Thank you, Micah. But we're going to go with 12 first because that's where I'm going with the story. Micah's not going to let it pass. If I get it wrong, he's going to let you know. Then at the end of the book of Genesis, the children of Israel go into Egypt to escape a famine. 400 years go by between Genesis and Exodus. And now Egypt has enslaved the Israelites. They cry out to God for a redeemer, for a rescuer. A baby's born. He floats down the Nile River. He's raised in the palace. He then kills a guard. He then goes into the land of Midian for 40 years. And then God calls him to go back to Israel as a redeemer. His name is? Moses. Moses then goes with his brother Aaron and his sister Miriam. They redeem the children of Israel from Egypt. And then God makes a very large body of water part. And they walk across the dry ground of the? Red Sea. We have a problem? No, I get to keep going. Alright. So they walk across the dry ground of the Red Sea. What did I do wrong? Well you're all the way up here now. I feel like I'm doing something wrong. Oh, we forgot something. Alright. So they walk across the dry ground of the Red Sea. And then God gives them the promised land. They move into the land of Canaan. The very first battle they fight. They walk around these walls. Anybody remember what the city is? Jericho. That's right. The children of Israel move into the promised land. They're not supposed to have a king yet. So they go through a judges period where everyone did what is right in their own eyes. And then finally Israel says, I want to have a king like all the other kings have. Right? Who was the first king of the United Monarchy of Israel? Saul followed by? David. David followed by? Solomon. Then after King Solomon dies, his two sons fight over rule of the kingdom and they experience civil war. The kingdom of God fractures into two pieces. The northern kingdom is? Starts with an I. Israel. That's right. The bottom kingdom starts with a J. Judah. Ten tribes up here, two tribes down here. They live as two separate kingdoms for pretty much the middle part of the Old Testament. Still not doing what God wants them to do. And then finally he sends them into exile. He brings in the Assyrians who conquer Israel. Then the Babylonians conquer the Assyrians. The Babylonians conquer the Judah. They all go into captivity. Then the Babylonians get conquered by the Persians. And finally the Persians let them come home. So the Assyrians and Babylonians, that's your book of Daniel. Once we get to the Persian Empire, that's your book of Esther. Then King Darius the Great of Persia lets all the kids go home. He lets them come back to the land of Israel. There's your Ezra. There's your Nehemiah. There's finally your Malachi. The Old Testament ends with a promise. There will come a Messiah. And you'll know it's him because there will be a forerunner who will come in front of him. And then he will be born. Who is the forerunner of the Messiah? John the? Baptist. And then what's the name of the Messiah of Israel? Excellent. And in English? Jesus. My son is the only one in the back who's going to answer me in Hebrew instead of English. The Messiah, his name technically, my son is correct. Jesus' name is Yeshua, which means the Lord is salvation. But in English we just call him Jesus. That's where we are. There's all of this beautiful history that has happened with God and his people. Now, pop quiz. Micah, don't answer this one because I know you know it. How many years of silence between the Old Testament and the New Testament? 400 years. For 400 years, God did not speak to his people. He did not reveal new scripture. No prophets were given new visions. And then all of a sudden, an angel shows up to a man named Zechariah. And he tells him in the temple, you're going to have a kid. And Zechariah doesn't believe him. And so he gets struck absolutely mute. And he's not allowed to speak for all of his wife's pregnancy. I'm not really sure if that was good or bad for Elizabeth. Not having to listen to her husband the whole time she's pregnant. And then an angel appears to a young woman named Mary. And that's what we're going to read about this morning. So, all of that was the preface to get us here to reading Luke... I'm going to start chapter 1. I'm going to read verses 26 to 38. So, this is Luke chapter 1 verses 26 to 38. In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David. The virgin's name was Mary. The angel went to her and said, Greetings to you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you are to call him Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father, David, and he will reign over Jacob's descendants forever. His kingdom will never end. How will this be? Mary asked the angel, since I am a virgin. The angel answered, The Holy Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age, and she who is said to be unable to conceive is in her sixth month. No word from the Lord, excuse me, for no word from God will ever fail. I am the Lord's servant, Mary answered. May your word be to, or may your word to me be fulfilled. And the angel left her. This is the moment. This is like literally the moment where all of the Bible hinges on this one thing. This one angel shows up to this young, one young woman, and all of the world's history has changed. Like I know we don't use the terms BC and AD anymore, now it's like BCE and CE. You know what's really interesting? The numbers aren't any different. All we did was swap out the acronyms. So before the Common Era is still the same era as before Christ, and during the Common Era is still the same Common Era as when Christ was born. So we changed the acronyms, but we really haven't changed the one life, the single human life on which all of world history hinges and the way we measure it. So let's go back here to verse 26. I want to walk through this and sort of open this up a little bit. Verse 26 opens with, So the reason that we're a little bit later is now we've already understand that the angels showed up to Zechariah. Zechariah and Elizabeth have conceived. John the Baptist is not conceived of the Holy Spirit. He's conceived of in the traditional marital way, but they were told that they would have the child. So Elizabeth is older and it is assumed that she is unable to conceive because she's been unable to conceive the entire time they've been married. So the sixth month establishes not only the age difference between John the Baptist and Jesus. John the Baptist is six months older than Jesus. That one's kind of this simple math part. But the fact that the angel is telling Mary that Elizabeth is pregnant is also a prophetic confirmation to Mary that God is doing something new. See, Mary had to travel to go see Elizabeth, which means she doesn't live with her. She doesn't live in the same town. Now Elizabeth's been pregnant for six months. So does Mary in her humanness know that Elizabeth is pregnant? I'm going to go ahead and say probably not. And the reason is the angel is using Elizabeth's pregnancy as an example to Mary of God can do what you think is impossible. That's what he's saying, right? Even if he was in his sixth month. And then something we sort of pass over. God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee. Now I want to focus in on this second part for a second. Number one, God sent the angel Gabriel. So angels in Christian theology, they fall into two categories. There's faithful angels and there's fallen angels. Faithful angels serve God. Fallen angels, or we also call those demons, they serve Satan. So if God sent an angel, that means we're over here. We're on the faithful angel, the good guy side. We're on the good guy, not bad guy side. So the good guy side, and he sends the angel Gabriel. Interestingly, there are only two angels named in scripture. There's only two angels. There's Gabriel and Michael. Now some of you are going to say, well, wait a minute, isn't Lucifer a name? Technically, no, it's not. Lucifer is the Latin translation of morning star, which is the description of Satan. And even Satan is the English translation of the Hebrew word satan, which means the accuser. So both Lucifer and Satan aren't actually names, they're titles. They're titles of morning star and accuser. But Gabriel is a specific name of a singular, specific angel. And then he sends an angel Gabriel to a town of the Nazareth in the town of Galilee. This doesn't sound spectacular to us, right? Because we're super used to the New Testament where it's Jesus of? Nazareth. Nazareth. The reason Nazareth is popular is because of Jesus. But if Jesus hadn't been born yet, then we need to ask ourselves, what does Nazareth look like in a pre-Jesus time frame? And so I had to call Miss Donna for a little bit of help this week while I was studying. But here's what I can tell you. Nazareth is legit the backwoods redneck 40 of the ancient world. Here, let me put it in perspective for you. If I were to compare Nazareth to Jerusalem at the time of Jesus' birth, Jerusalem has anywhere from 75,000 to 250,000 residents. Now, why is the big gap? Well, if you remember, there are annual festivals where all the Jews have to travel to Jerusalem, right? So, there are times in the year where the city population of Jerusalem is going to swell because everybody's going to go there for a festival. Just like if everybody had to go to Washington, D.C. to celebrate the 4th of July, Washington, D.C.'s population would swell. But the average population of Jerusalem is anywhere from 75,000 to let's say, 150,000, 125,000, 150,000. You know what the average population of Nazareth is at the time of Jesus' birth? 400. So, let me put this in perspective. So, I'm not a native Delawarean, okay? I moved here a couple years ago. But Miss Donna has helped me understand this. So, how many people know where Ellendale, Delaware is? Raise your hand if you've been to Ellendale. Okay, a lot of y'all. Anybody know what the average population of Ellendale, Delaware is? Anybody want to guess? 450. And do you want to guess what the average population of the city of Wilmington is as of last year? 75,000. So, I can now literally tell you that Nazareth is to Jerusalem what Ellendale, Delaware is to Wilmington. Now, if you don't know where Ellendale, Delaware is, guess what? Join the club. I had to look it up. I even had to call Donna to find like what is the most backwoodsy town in Delaware that people still might have heard of? Why is all this important? Because this is an incredibly unlikely place for an unprecedented event. Jesus did not come in the middle of Jerusalem. The angel did not appear to the high priest or to any member of the Sanhedrin or to Nicodemus or Joseph of Arimathea. The angel did not appear to the Roman authorities, did not appear to the centurions, did not even appear anywhere in the greater Jerusalem area. The angel showed up in the back 40 sticks to a random young woman in a town that nobody has either heard of or cares about. And that is where the Son of God finds his heritage. The reason I think that's important is we overlook it. Because why? Looking back through history, we think Nazareth is important because we know Jesus came from there. But here in this moment, if we take the time machine, you can either have the Tardis or the cool people. We get the DeLorean, whichever one you want. And we go all the way back in time. See, you get a back to the future joke. You didn't think you were going to get that at Christmas. If we go all the way back in time to before Jesus' birth, Nazareth is not an important place. Alex is just the back 40. It's the sticks with the Carhartts and the John Deere. And I'm okay with that. Like, I like the sticks. But we need to realize that that's where Jesus comes from. And then we get further details. 27, the virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph. Now, I'm not going to super unpack all of that because it was a big feature of last week's sermon, right? We talked about the marriage that they would have, a ceremony. Then they lived apart for a year. That was to prove that Mary could be faithful to Joseph. It's during the year that Mary shows up pregnant. Joseph has to take a big hit to his character. If any of that sounds new to you, take a look at last week's sermon. It's on our website. I try to dig and unpack that part. I do want to point out, though, the word virgin in 27. There's a little bit of a biblical debate over what this word means. And in our English word, we don't really debate what the word virgin means. We kind of understand exactly what it means. But in the Greek term that's used, there are two possible definitions. So I want to give you both, and then I want to explain to you what the right way to understand this word is. So two different definitions for the word virgin in Greek. Number one, a young person, usually female, but it is not required to be female. Just like in English, the word virgin doesn't carry a sex or gender with it. It's just a word. So a young person, usually female, who has not had sex yet. The second definition of virgin is a young woman of marrying age. Okay? So those who wish to deny the virgin conception of Jesus, they will lean heavily on the second definition of the word. And they'll say, no, she's not really virgin in the sense that she had never been with a man. She's just a virgin in the sense that she was a young woman who was of the right age to be married. And I'm like, okay, you're using your Bible dictionary. You're using the word correctly. But there's one other question we have to ask. Just because a word has two possible definitions does not mean that we get the privilege of choosing which definition is correct. Right? We got to go to the usage and see which definition did the author intend. So here's what I can tell you about those two definitions. The word virgin is used 15 times in the New Testament scriptures. 14 out of the 15 times that this word is used, it specifically refers to a young female who has never been with a man. The 15th time that that word is used, it refers to a young male who's never been with a woman. That second definition of virgin means just a young woman who's of marrying age is technically accurate but not textually accurate. So what I want you to understand is this verse right here in 27, when it says a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph. Mary is a young woman of marrying age. But the word virgin here is specifically targeting the fact that she had not yet laying with a man. You cannot use that alternate definition to unwind the virgin conception of Christ. Okay? I just want to make that super important. Also I need you to notice something else that's built into the Greek definition of virgin. Marriage automatically entails sex and children. Because both definitions assume a young person, whether it's male or female, who has not yet been sexually intimate with another person and therefore has not yet conceived a child. So the word virgin not only refers to the act of copulation, I'm trying to be really nice because we've got a bunch of kids here, right? But it also refers to the fact that since we've not done this act, there's no possible way for conception, right? I just want to be very clear about that. The final thing that we also see is that Joseph is a descendant of David. In fact, Mary and Joseph are both descendant of David, which is what allows him to inherit the throne of David. Those of you who like your biblical notes, here's a fun one. Jesus is the biological descendant of Mary, but he's not the biological descendant of Joseph, right? Because Joseph is his adopted human father, not his biological father. So why is it important that both Mary and Joseph be descendants of David? Here it is. In order for Jesus to be biologically eligible to inherit the throne of David, he must come from the biological line of David. That is accomplished through Mary. But in order to be legally eligible to receive an inheritance from a male ancestor, his father must be from the line of David. God is not making a mistake in choosing the family that will become the father of the Christ child. God has made a very clear point that both the mother and the stepfather, if I could use a more modern day term, are both descendants from the line of David. This enables Jesus to not only be the biological recipient of the Davidic promises all the way back from 1 and 2 Samuel, he is the legal descendant of a son of a son of a son of a son, all the way down the line, to be able to legally receive the throne. All of that is packed into that descendant of David. So I just want you to see, this is no mistake. God choosing and sending an angel to the back 40. God choosing a woman from the line of David. God choosing a stepfather from the line of David. Then we get to 28. Here's the angels message when he begins to speak to Mary. Look, I'm so excited I'm tripping over my own face. The angel went to her and said, now here comes the angels greeting, greetings you who are highly favored, the Lord is with you. So I'm going to hit this one on the head and if you grew up Catholic just put your seat belt on for a minute. Right, so here we go. You who are highly favored, I want to explain what this means. So in a Catholic theological system, they will use this verse right here in 28 to illustrate why Mary should be venerated or worshiped or elevated above other human beings. They will say, look, the Bible says she's highly favored and you're totally right. But what does the word highly favored mean? Here's what it means literally. I can translate Gabriel's greeting to say grace to you, one who has been graced. Or grace to you, graced one. Using the grace in a past tense verb. Both active verbs in the sentence refer to God's grace on Mary, not Mary being greater than other human beings. She is not highly favored because of her grace. She is not highly favored because of her own piety, her own righteousness, her own actions. She is not highly favored because of her own piety, her own righteousness, her own actions. Mary is highly favored because she has been selected by God for an incredible purpose and a wonderful ministry. But you cannot take the word, you who are highly favored, and bend it in any which way that turns Mary into anything other than a human being selected and used by God. You cannot use this verse to venerate the mother, the earthly mother of Christ as anything other than one more person in the line of human beings that God has used to bring about his plan of salvation. Okay, I just want to make that one super clear. Both active verbs in 28 feature God being the one who gives the grace. Grace to you, one who's been graced by God. That's more of a hyper literal but not smooth translation of verse 28. Then the angel finishes, the Lord is with you. 29, Mary was greatly troubled his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. So first, what does greatly troubled mean? Greatly troubled literally means perplexed or confused. It does not mean doubt. And here's why that's important. Because when the angel appeared to Zechariah in the temple, Zechariah was like, huh? And we see that it was doubt because of the angels response to Zechariah. He was marked mute for the whole time that John was inside of his wife. Here, Mary, she's confused or perplexed which sets her in contrast to Zechariah. And then she wonders what kind of greeting this is. Literally what it means is why is an angel greeting me? That makes sense. I don't know about you but Casey, if an angel showed up to you while you were in your backyard mowing your lawn or milking your cows or taking care of your sheep or whatever and an angel shows up and says, greetings, Casey, what's going on? I'm pretty sure you'd probably go, why is an angel greeting me? That just seems like it makes sense. She's not troubled. She's not upset. She's not afraid. She is confused at... Like this is what we're doing right now. Okay. And we see that because in verse 30, typical angel message, right? What's the next thing you just say? Whoa. Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. And then Gabriel repeats, you have found favor with God. Where does the favor on Mary come from? Yes. That was loud. Where does the favor that's on Mary come from? It comes from God. It does not come from inside of Mary. She is not favored because of herself. She is favored because God is doing something new and he has selected Mary as his chosen instrument. Now, I also, like the apologist in me has got to hit this one because it's not fair. Did Mary get a choice? No. I mean, let's just... You're totally right, but let's just sit on that for a second. Have you ever considered the reality that sometimes God is going to do something in your life and you don't get a choice? How does that sit? Does that feel good? Like Alex, I don't know about you, but I don't like that. No. God, I want choices. Like I want Chick-fil-A and McDonald's and brownies and ice cream and cookies and milk. Like I want choices. And so I have to point this out. Mary did not get a choice. The angels showed up and said, Hey, Mary, grace to you. You're highly favored. Congratulations. God's chosen you to be pregnant. Mary did not get the choice to be pregnant. Mary was not offered the opportunity. She was not given the opportunity. She was saying, If you would like to marry, would you be kind enough? No. The angels showed up and said, Girl, you've done been chosen. Here we go. Guess what? So now, I mean, this leaves us in a little bit of a quandary. How are we to understand the balance of God's sovereign choices to work out his long-range plans and our ability as human beings to make free will choices? Because I don't know about you, but I live my life like I'm allowed to choose. When I get up in the morning and I go downstairs and there's three different brands of breakfast cereal in my cabinet, I literally believe that I'm allowed to choose Cheerios over Rice Krispies. I don't walk downstairs and think that God is sovereignly making me reach to the left of the pantry versus the right of the pantry. Although, to be honest, there is an entire school of Christian theology out there that that's what they teach. That's not what I teach, just so we're all clear. Those of you who are new to catalysts, we take these little deep dives, but I'm not... So that's what they call determinism, that God has predetermined and ordained every single human choice. I have a problem with this because I see many times in the Bible where God responds to the choices of human beings. If he's writing all the lines of the play of the whole world, then why is God... I think that's a big theological problem to answer. So here's my answer. It is commonly suggested that God cannot be fully sovereign if man is fully free. But this is based on the idea that man's free will choices must be unlimited in order for them to be truly free. But why? Please raise your hand. Is anyone free to disobey the law of gravity at will? Okay, how about this one? Are you free to change your hair color just by thinking about it? No, unless you think about making an appointment with Jen and then Jen can change your hair color. See, we are not... And here's one. We are not free to transform into birds, take flight, fly over to my neighbor's house, poop on their car, and then fly home and transform back into a human being. I'm not free to do that. But half of you just thought, oh, that'd be cool. I wonder what my neighbor would think. And I say that because this is what's funny. We are not free to make choices that exist outside the nature of being a human being in the natural laws of our universe. That does not mean we're not free. Or let me give you... Let me say it this way. The nature of the creature creates the limits on choices. Or let me say it this way. How many people are going to go out to lunch today after church? Anybody? Okay. Kim, let's say you go to a Mexican restaurant. By choosing... Okay, Rick's down. So, let me say it this way. By choosing to go to a Mexican restaurant, you have limited the choices that are on the menu by the nature of the restaurant that you go to. You cannot walk into McDonald's on a Sunday and make them make you Chick-fil-A. Trust me, I've tried. It doesn't work. Why? Because the nature of choosing the restaurant limits the choices on the menu. That doesn't mean we didn't make a free choice. It means when I chose to go to a Mexican restaurant, I probably should not attempt to order sushi. Right? I'm just saying, if you go to a Mexican restaurant and they serve sushi, you need to call me. Because that's either going to be really, really awesome or really not. So, if the nature of a restaurant can limit the choices on a menu, then why can the nature of humanity not limit the choices on my free will without interfering with God's sovereignty? He made me a creature. He made me able to make certain choices. But those certain choices exist within the box in which he placed me. It's just like building a sandbox for your children and say, go play in the sandbox. Here's all the toys. Here's all the sand. Does that mean that the sandbox isn't real? No. Does that mean that the child who chose to build this castle versus that castle didn't make an active choice? No. All of those choices exist within the sandbox that the parent provides for the child. In the same way, all of the choices that you and I make exist because of God's sovereignty. Not in spite of it. He is still sovereign over the whole universe. And in his sovereignty, he's given us the ability to make choices. But every now and again, he also retains the authority to step into the sandbox himself. And that's the glory of the incarnation. God didn't just make the sandbox and leave us to our own devices. He stepped into the story, into the box itself in order to rescue us from ourselves. To quote C.S. Lewis, when C.S. Lewis was an atheist before he got saved, he said, it is impossible for man to know God as much as it is impossible for Hamlet to know Shakespeare. And then after he got saved, he said, I was wrong. Hamlet can totally know Shakespeare if Shakespeare writes himself into the story. Praise God for Jesus. God wrote himself into the story of humanity and stepped into the sandbox with us so we can know him. And that's what's happening right here. So, I don't want to lie to you. Ladies, Mary did not get a choice to get pregnant. God chose for her in his sovereignty that this choice is going to bring about an amazing gift. But he did use his sovereign authority as the king of the universe and tell Mary this is what's going to happen. Now, you're going to watch in a minute, Mary's going to respond here. So, verse 31, you will conceive and give birth to a son and you are to call him Jesus. Then 32 and 33, this is what the son's going to be. He will be great and he will be called son of the most high. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. Stop. I know we had to put a pause on Revelation until next year. But does everybody remember when we talked about the framework of the book of Revelation? There are outstanding promises from the Old Testament. One of them was to the king David. And what was that promise? That there would be a forever king. Everybody make air quotes with me. Ready? Forever king. That's the most important part of the Davidic promise. There will be a forever king who will come in order to fulfill the promises made to David. This is what the angel is telling Mary right here in verse 32. He will be great. He will be called son of the most high. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over Jacob's descendants forever. Where's all my sandlot people? Forever. Yep. That's how long Jesus' reign is going to be. His kingdom will never end. Now, I got to be perfectly honest. If we are living in about 4 BC, maybe 5 because she's got to be pregnant for 9 months. So, let's go 5 BC. You're in the back 40. You just got off your John Deere. You're drinking some lemonade. The angel shows up. Mary, you're going to have a kid. Guess what? All those promises that your tribe, your entire nation has been waiting for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years. You're going to have the child that fulfills all of it. That's why the big Bible story is important. This is not just a story of some angel in some backwoods town and some small teenage girl. This small teenage girl is fulfilling thousands of years of waiting on God. Waiting for God to write himself into the story of humanity. So, what does Mary say to all of this? 34. I love Mary. Oh, my gosh. How will this be since I am a virgin? Again, I'm not going to go over the whole miracle thing again. But I'm pretty sure Mary understands how babies get made based on verse 34. She is not questioning what God is doing. She's not questioning what God is doing. But have you ever wondered how God is going to do something? I wonder that all the time. If I'm the only one in the room, it's okay. Everybody can be holier than me. It happens all the time. But question, verse 34, her question is not asking what God is doing. She goes, how is God... How? How will I fulfill this mission if I'm still a virgin? I've not been with my husband yet. She's not questioning what God is doing. She just may not fully understand how God is going to do it. Verse 35, here comes his answer. The Holy Spirit will come on you. The power of the most high will overshadow you. So, the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. Oh, okay. So, let's just think this one through theologically for a second. Is there anywhere else in the Bible where God creates something out of nothing? Genesis 1, 1? Yeah. Genesis 1, 1, God spoke all of creation into existence. And what hovered over the surface of creation at the very beginning of creation week? The Holy Spirit did. Go all the way back to Genesis 1, 2. And the Holy Spirit hovered over the waters. Same verb tense here. The Holy Spirit will hover or overshadow over Mary. And the same creative power that brought creation into being in Genesis 1, 1 and 1, 2 now brings the Son of God into being inside of Mary's womb. And further tells him, the end of verse 35, the Holy One to be born. Jesus will be born in the same way that he was born. Jesus will be born a holy child. Now, the word holy means to be set apart. In this context specifically, set apart for the purposes and plan of God. And that's going to be done through the hovering or the overshadowing of the Holy Spirit. And if you want further proof, Gabriel keeps going. 36. Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age. She who was said to be unable to conceive is in her 6th month. Mary, God is doing things. Guess what? You're older than dirt cousins, still going to have a baby. I mean, Elizabeth's dead, so she'll be mad at me in eternity when I get there. But why does Gabriel include this? Because Mary's question was a how question. And how questions are important. How does God do that? How should God do that? What do you think? How do you think God's going to do that? And the angel says, number one, the Holy Spirit's going to do it. And number 2, guess what? Your cousin who everybody thought was unable to have a baby, she's already in her 6th month. And then 37 brings, he closes on a hard point. For no word from God will ever fail. That includes the Davidic promise from 1 Samuel that I will give from the line of David a forever king. And now Mary is going to have the privilege of bringing that promised bringer, that promised fulfiller into being. 38, Mary lays it down. I am the Lord's servant. That word servant can also literally be translated, I am his slave. I will do his will. Now, I would submit to you that verse 38 is Mary using her active free will to submit to God. Now, the question of whether Mary said no would God still impregnate Mary is a non-starter. I can't say that because she didn't say that. Angel shows up, tells her exactly what's going to happen. And Mary goes, yup, let's do it. And just signs right on. And then Mary responds, may your word be to me fulfilled. And the angel left. In this moment, Mary is given a preview of the child she will bear, of what he will accomplish, of the fulfillment that he will bring to the thousands of years of waiting that the Jewish people have waited for that promised Davidic king. And her simple response is, I am the Lord's servant. I am the Lord's servant, let's go. Let's do it. And then the angel left her. I told you last week, I think Joseph gets a bad rap for all that we don't see. I think Mary gets every stitch and ounce of the praise and the glory she's due. Because I can't think of another example in scripture of where God chose a person and said, guess what? You're going to have my kid. Like literally that's what God is saying. By the way, Mary, you're going to bring me, the Almighty God of creation, into creation itself so that I can fulfill my promises. The reason I started with the idea of the BC and AD. This moment changed world history. It changed the way we track everything we know from antiquity to today. That's why this year is 2023 and not, you know, whatever time scale you want to go with. 6,000, 20,000, 13 billion. Like that's why. And in this moment, Mary is chosen by God and yet she chooses to submit with humility and faith. And I think that's the challenge today. So here's your takeaway. Mary is chosen by God and chooses to submit in both humility and faith. We too should strive to live as Mary did, willingly submitted to God, even when we don't choose all that will happen to us. I don't want to lie to you. God does have the ability to make choices in your life without asking your permission first. He does. Does he do that all the time? No. In fact, I would say that if we looked at all of the human lives that scripture reveals to us from Adam all the way to the end of Revelation, the amount of times that God inserts himself and overrides the free will creatures or the free will exercise of human beings is very miniscule. And every time he has done it, it has been to work out his plan of salvation. God did not ask the Red Sea if it wanted to part. God did not ask if death could hold on to Christ. So there are times where God's going to do something. And our only choice is whether to rebel or to respond. That's where Mary was at in this story. In that backwoodsy town, John Deere's and Lemonade's and Collard Green's and all. She had to choose to follow on faith. And I think that's the same choice that we have to make today. Because I don't know about you, but there are plenty of days that I get up and I'm like, God, I do not understand what you're doing. I don't understand what you're doing in my church. I don't understand what you're doing in my family. I don't understand what you're doing in my community. I don't understand what you're doing in my country. I don't understand what you're doing. Like, does anybody ever get everything that God does all the time? Because if you do, I want to buy you a coffee. I want to learn. Because there are plenty of days I get up and I'm just confused. And I got to choose, will my confusion drive me further into the future? Will I be willing to admit that I'm not into doubt and lack of faith? Or will I be willing to admit, God, I choose faith even when I don't understand. I choose to submit even when I don't get everything. I get enough about you to trust you.