Well, good morning, you know what I'm the sound tech and I forgot to turn the mic on that would be really helpful wouldn't it There we go good morning For all of you watching online you probably were able to hear me But no one in here was because I was pinch hitting a sound person today and forgot to turn my own microphone on I apologize Well, it is a wintry day outside. Thank you for all of you who joined us here and for all of you who are online with us I am so thankful to be at a church where we have that kind of technology I was in the that looking at the chat before I came up here and there are several people we have in our congregation Who can't really get out in this kind of weather either? They're not really stable enough to walk in that weather or can't drive in it And I'm just so thankful that we have an online campus. So for all of you who are cozy at home today Thank you for being cozy But still choosing to worship with us. We are in the midst of a Christmas series Studying how God came to earth this one was titled you saw the video heaven came down I want to give you the key thought that really holds all of these messages together. Here it is Christmas didn't happen in a vacuum The birth of Jesus is a major event in a much larger story The mistake we often make when we read or share the Christmas story is we start when angels show up to talk to Mary Which is great and wonderful and true But it's not where the story actually began the story began in Genesis 1 1 when God created the heavens and the Or see you guys got to keep your point. Got to keep you awake that's where the Christmas story began and when we Disconnect the beauty and the majesty and the glory of that first Christmas night from everything that came before it I think that's why a lot of times people see it as You know just well-wishing or you know holiday mythology instead of an actual Historical event so today we're gonna get into a little bit of history actually probably John a lot of history We're gonna get into some outside sources. So I would like to ask those of you who are Here in the room if you will open the catalyst app and go to sermon notes Now if you are joining us online and you are actually using the catalyst app to live stream and chat with us Then you're not able to do both of these things at the same time if however You're using either the TV app or you're watching on a computer or something else and your phone is free I highly recommend you take a look at the sermon notes from this week because I have added a bunch of extra things that Are there for you and you can always go to the very bottom and email it to yourself when we're done But if you open the sermon notes for this morning You'll see that my sermon is titled the dating of Christmas this morning. We are going to address the question When exactly was Jesus born when did Christmas take place? I'm gonna do my best to answer as many of your questions as possible But I may miss one and that's why there's the ask a question button and it'll show up multiple times in the sermon notes If you want to ask a question, please do that those questions will go to the back to my wife and then she will Collect them tabulate them and pitch them back to me as we make it to the end of the message So I want you to see here at the very top It says the mistake of Christmas when we read or share the Christmas story We often started the angels message to Mary This is a mistake the birth of Jesus is a major event in a much larger story The first thing I would like to establish beyond a shadow of a doubt is that Jesus was and is a real person in history This is not debatable. This is not Disagreeable and in order to prove that to you I just am going to quote a couple of scholars if you're following me in your notes All of these quotes are in there so that you can look these individuals up after the fact But Jesus is a real person in history. He is not a myth. I'll start with the skeptical scholar John Dominic crossin He's the guy behind the Jesus seminar. Any of you ever heard of that? Jesus's crucifixion is as sure as anything historical Can ever be or how about the atheist scholar Bart Ehrman? The idea that Jesus did not exist is a modern notion. It has no ancient precedence It was made up in the 18th century or how about the Jewish scholar Giza Vermes? Jesus certainly existed. He was a Galilean Jew who was baptized by John And was crucified under Pontius Pilate or the Christian scholar NT, right? the existence of Jesus of Nazareth is as well established as anything from the ancient world or Finally the Christian scholar Craig Blomberg Virtually every competent scholar in the world agrees that Jesus existed as a historical figure You'll notice if you looked really carefully. I quoted more non-christian scholars than Christian scholar. That's on purpose Just in case you were thinking I was Shading the data or shading the evidence to the Christian side to make things easier for me No, I did not I gave you a skeptical scholar. I gave you an atheist I gave you a Jewish scholar and two world-renowned Christian scholars There is zero debate that Jesus is a historical figure and this is why we have to start there If Jesus is a historical figure Then his birth is a historical fact you with me If Jesus actually existed if he walked and talked on the pages of human history Then Jesus's birth is not Mythological it is historical. It is a guaranteed logical fact that if Jesus existed he was burned Okay, that's why we have to start here is because there are some who would love to accuse us as Christians of Mythologizing this entire Christmas story with shepherds and angels and Magi and it all sounds too miraculous And we know this because of science today The reality is I have given you more than enough proof if someone wants to claim that Jesus never existed at all They will be standing against Almost all of the world's scholars in religion in history in antiquity in manuscript there are Virtually no scholars today who attempt to argue this and I think Bart said it best when he said the idea that Jesus did not Exist is a modern notion. It was made up in the 18th century to undercut the validity of Christianity as We quickly approach the birth of Jesus if you learn nothing from my sermon today get this The birth of Jesus happened on the pages of human history. It is a historical fact We do not celebrate some mythological event that we've created we commemorate a Historical event that actually happened that makes sense to everybody All right Again, if you're watching online, you have questions go into the sermon notes in the catalyst app I believe our online chat host dr. Doug has also posted a link into the chat So if you want to ask a question from there, you can do that as well In order to further establish the historicity of Jesus Let's look at a couple extra biblical sources just in case in case you're not willing to take the scholars words for it You're like pastor bill. Of course, you're gonna say Jesus existed. You work for a church you get paid to represent Jesus Let's go outside the Bible for a minute All of these references are in your sermon notes as well as the links to view these first these sources firsthand I went and found online versions of all of these first and second century documents and Hyperlink them into the sermon notes. So you'll know I am giving you access to the primary source material. I'm not making it up I'm not shading it. I'm not misquoting it You can use all of the links that I put in your sermon notes today and you can read these documents for yourself online The Roman historian tacitus writing in approximately ad 116 Christus for whom the name Christians had its origin Suffered the extreme penalty during the reign of Tiberius at the hands of one of our procurators Pontius Pilate That's a Roman historian. How about the Jewish historian Josephus writing in approximately ad 93? And now there was about this time Jesus a wise man and the tribe of Christians so named for him are not extinct to this day Or how about the Roman governor Pliny? Writing in approximately ad 112 This is really interesting because this is a government letter Pliny is writing to the Emperor Tiberius about how to properly torture and extract information from Christians in his province and this is what he says You can see the entire letter if you click the link in the notes But I'm just gonna give you this sentence. They also declared the entire fault or error Consisted in meeting before dawn on a fixed day and singing responsibly a hymn to Christ as if to a God we worshiped Jesus as God from the beginning and then finally to round it out one more the Roman historian suetonius writing in approximately ad 120 Since the Jews constantly made disturbances at the instigation of Crestus He Claudius expelled them from Rome. That's an external historical reference to the Edict of Claudius Which happened in approximately ad 49 where he kicked all the Jews out of the Roman capital city for a time Why do I do all of this because? Christmas is not about hope about well wishes about mythology about what we think happened Christmas rests on the historical reality that Jesus Christ was born Exactly as the scriptures say he was however This morning my job is not to tell you that Jesus was born my job this morning is to do my best to help you understand when Jesus was born So I want to give you a note about dating because we're gonna do a lot of numbers and a lot of math today So for those of you who stayed home grab a calculator a note about dating so Many are probably familiar with the BC ad dating system. That's what we use today or today in academic circles It's BC and BCE That is not the dating system that was used when Jesus was first born they used a dating system called the AUC the AUC so it would be like 37 AUC 69 AUC 500 AUC that was the dating system that was used when Jesus was born the AUC dating system would use the founding of the city of Rome as its starting point and this was the first Dating system used by Christians now we place the founding of the city of Rome at 653 BC But that's because we have the BC ad or BC BCE. I'll explain that a minute That's because we have that today when Jesus was first born they were in the middle of the AUC dating system So Jesus was born approximately 753 years After the founding of the capital city of Rome. So where does AD come from? Here you go in 525 Pope John the first asked a monk by the name of Dionysius to create a standard calendar for the Western Church He centered the dating of that new calendar not on the founding of the capital city of Rome But on the birth of Jesus Christ so in 525 a dude named Dionysius who was serving as a monk was asked by the Pope at that time Pope John the first and He created what you and I now know as a D one What's interesting is? BC did not happen yet. So they started in a D one Jesus was born now. We're just gonna count forward It would be another 200 years in 731 an English monk named bead Added counting backwards from the birth of Jesus and created what we now know as one BC So again AUC is where Jesus was born He would have been born in his day in the year Because Jesus is born 753 years after the founding of the city of Rome But we didn't want us to ground our Western calendar as the church expanded when we went no No, we need a calendar for the Western Church. So 525 they create AD 200 years later in 731 They create the concept of BC. The other thing I need you to know is there's no year zero, right? So unlike a number line when you're doing math you go negative three negative two negative one Zero one two three there is no year zero you go from one BC Directly to one AD. All right. I promise all of this is gonna make sense So there is no year zero between one BC and one AD then follow along you get to the 1960s in the 1960s especially in academic circles they began to replace BC with BCE and they replaced AD with CE. So let me explain BC what does it stand for anybody know? before Christ ie the years prior to Jesus being born what does AD stand for and Odomini, that's correct. Does it stand for after death? Because if so, we'd have like a 33 year gap where there was nobody was counting time So BC stands for before Christ AD stands for an Odomini or in the year of our Lord So it was before Jesus before Jesus before Jesus when Jesus is born. It's the year of our Lord Do you notice that both of those terms assume a Christian audience? Why because I just told you in 525 a Christian monk invented the AD dating system and then in 731 another Christian monk Invented the BC dating system. Well around about the 1960s There was a group of academics most likely in American universities, but it could have been also in Europe who felt that it was inappropriate or culturally insensitive to assume Christianity for the readers and the students of history so they replaced the term AD and Odomini or in the year of our Lord with CE the common era and thereby replaced BC before Christ with BCE before the common era so if you're out there reading a history book of some kind and you see the terms BCE before the common era that just means BC before Jesus was born and see the common era just means AD after Jesus was born Why did they do this because not everybody who studies history is a Christian and I'm not offended by this I'm not offended by the fact that there are atheists who study history I'm not offended by the fact that there are Muslims who study history I'm not offended by the fact that there are Buddhists and Taoists and Wiccans who study history You know the difference is they didn't make history we did They didn't define history Jesus did I don't have a problem with the fact that they wanted to change out the letters, but you know They didn't do job They didn't change out what we counted from and you know why they didn't do that Because at the time by the 1960s the entire world had already adopted Building their dating system off of the historical event of the birth of Jesus Christ There was no way to unwind the clock and create another new year one The most important event in all of history had already occurred the birth of Jesus Christ so even though in academic circles, and it's becoming more and more normalized in culture as Christianity is no longer assumed for culture We're moving away from BC and AD and we're moving to BCE and CE Those of you who know me I got to serve on jury duty this past week. I had a blast Asked me after church jury duty was so fun But it was very interesting to me that when they swore in the jury and when they swore in all of the witnesses The bailiff got out Bible for us to be sworn in on and the judge had them put away So no one no one swore in the Bible they swore on their own word Do you so swear instead of to help you God? I found that very interesting But yeah, we we see different elements of our culture moving away. Here's the thing you need to understand 2025 AD is the same as 2025 CE you know why because it's still 2025 years from when the first calculation was made now Here's the last question you're gonna you're gonna find out in a minute that I'm estimating the birth of Jesus to be between 6 And 4 BC not in the year 1 ad I want to explain what right Rob. Yes. See I see the eyebrows right there I want to explain why this is this is not because Jesus was not born It is because we have access to better history Than Dionysius had access to in 525 we have a whole lot more history that we have access to and now we can recalculate and we can see that he made a few calculation errors But he did the best he could with the information he had right So I'm not really gonna stand here and judge Dionysius for the way he did the math He did the best he could with the information he had in his day, which was literally 1500 years ago Let's cut the guy a little slack right he created a calendar. That's now used worldwide He was just off by a few years. So In order to establish for you when Jesus was born I cannot pull out his you know his one year birthday card and show you the exact date that Jesus was born however we can limit the scope of Possible answers so just because I cannot prove to you Beyond a shadow of a doubt that Jesus was born on December the 25th And I will answer why we choose December 25th at the end of the sermon So if that's one of your questions, I've already got it preloaded for you I cannot prove to you beyond a shadow of a doubt that Jesus was born on December 25th But I would submit to you that I don't really have to Because we know and that's why I spent so much time in the beginning because we know that Jesus is a historical figure to deny That reality is to deny the breadth of worldwide scholarship We know that Jesus had to be born now. All we're doing is saying based on our biblically available data What is the minimum scope that I can offer to you the church to understand when Jesus was born is that track? So I want you to think about a set of book ends, right anybody that uses book ends on a bookshelf I am going to give you the book ends and there is a range in between these book ends in which Jesus's birth Could have occurred there is no possibility For his birth to have occurred outside of these book end does that make sense? So let's look at point D on your notes the latest date for the first Christmas the latest Possible date. Let's look at two Bible verses first Matthew chapter 2 verse 1 After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea during the time of King Herod Magi from the east came to Jerusalem Likewise, let's look at Luke chapter 1 verse 5 in the time of Herod king of Judea There was a priest named Zechariah who belonged to the priestly division of Abijah His wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron Do you notice that both of those mentioned the same king? So we have multiple attested or multiple witness statements that Jesus was born During the reign of who we call King Herod or King Herod the great King Herod the great's death is estimated from mid March to mid April of 4 BC We don't know exactly we know that is his death happened. There was also a full moon There was also another event on the Jewish calendar when you put all that in a blender you pour it back out to a glass Little umbrella what you get is mid March to mid April of 4 BC Again, we're talking about events that happened over 2,000 years ago. So the fact I can't get you down to the minute I don't feel real bad But I can get you into a 30-day window mid March to mid April of 4 BC is when King Herod died Which means if the Bible tells us that Jesus was born during the reign of King Herod the great Jesus cannot be born after the death of King Herod the great that makes that I mean just super simple just trying to frame things in here for you So Jesus must be born no later than mid March to mid April of 4 BC Now let's go to point E. What is the earliest date for the first Christmas? Let's start with Matthew chapter 2 verse 16 When Herod realized that he had been outwitted by the Magi He was furious and he gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem and its vicinity who were two years old and under In accordance with the time he had learned from the Magi so just Put your you know your movie picture brain on for a second Herod the great must be alive at the time of Jesus's birth At the time of Jesus's birth Herod the great finds out that Jesus was born Then he waits a little bit finds out he's been deceived by the Magi He read the story they actually hear from God and they go home another way Mary and Joseph move and take Jesus to Egypt for a little bit. That's how Jesus dodges this But then Herod chooses on his own free will to slaughter all the children born in Bethlehem and their vicinity Who are two years old and younger? This to me sets the most likely earliest date If Herod chose to kill all children two years old and younger That means he absolutely believed that Jesus was born No more than two years before the time that the Magi told him everybody make that make sense If I knew I was trying to rid myself of the of a promised child I'd probably go a little a little longer, right? Just in case maybe the Magi were off by a week or even a month So I submit to you that if Herod was what Herod died in mid march to mid april of 4 bc And we see here in scripture that he set a two-year limit on how soon Jesus was born before that That puts a two-year time frame and it implies that the birth of Jesus Is at or about two years before the death of Herod Herod died in mid march to mid april of 4 bc So two years before that is mid march to mid april of 6 bc Now somebody's sitting online going bill. I mean that sounds okay, but aren't you kind of guessing I am But let me provide you additional piece of evidence to shore up my case for why if i'm Let's talk about this is letter f in your notes the quirinius problem Luke chapter 2 verses 1 to 3 In those days caesar augustus issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire roman world Verse 2 this was the first census that took place while quirinius was governor of syria and everyone went to their own town to register Now here's the problem Historical records indicate uh through josephus That quirinius was not governor until ad 6 or 7 How can we resolve the problem of jesus being born before the death of herod in 4 bc? If quirinius was not governor until ad 6 or 7 This is a major problem And it's one that many atheists will come to and say and this is why you can't trust your bible because it can't get a single date Right Well, no, technically either date could be right. It's a combination of the two of them that you're having a problem with So you can't really say single date, but there are several possible answers number one Quirinius could have been governor twice And only his second governorship is recorded Just because something is not recorded doesn't mean it didn't happen The absence of evidence is not the evidence of absence Quirinius very well could have had an additional term at approximately six to four bc that went unrecorded. It's possible number two There is a distinction between when the counting of people happen and when the taxation from the counting of those people happen That is an additional distance in time number three and I like this one the most i'll be honest um Eric can I please have verse two? Uh, yeah luke 2 verse 2 again on the screen This was the first census. Okay, you see that word first there either on the screen or at the bottom of your screen That's an english translation, right luke didn't write in english That word first Can easily be translated? before in front of prime of or premier of Now when I read that this was the uh, this actually and I had to put it in my notes So I can read it for you. This is a word by word translation. It's not going to read nice as a sentence But here's the exact words in greek this was first slash before census Quirinius governor syria That's the only words in that verse in the greek text We fill in the rest of the words to make a sentence in english, right? But when I say this was first census Quirinius governor syria sounds like it's the first sentence quirinius took while governor of syria However, when I say this was before census quirinius governor syria There's zero textual problem This is just a translation Can we know exactly which one luke? No, but it's another possible answer that is completely in line with scripture that perhaps the verse should be translated before now You're gonna ask me pastor bill. Is there any evidence in scripture that that word has been translated before? Yes, I forgot to add it in your notes But it's there any of you really need to see it or you can trust me. Let me know But this was before quirinius governor of syria And now let me give you another possible answer that comes from outside the pages of the bible, but not the pages of history We know through external biblical historical records that king herod lost favor with caesar in approximately 7 bc It is very reasonable for caesar to call a census in preparation for changing out leadership Herod started getting really crazy at one point. He murdered his own sons. I mean Just look it up. He went He went He went super cuckoo for coco puffs. That's like a legit theological term. He went super cuckoo for coco puffs He lost the backing of caesar and caesar was preparing to replace him It is absolutely reasonable that caesar might have done a census and when luke says whole roman world He's not meaning the whole world He's meaning the area in which caesar was I mean herod governed over and that small of a census may or may not be in A record today. I love the way people say well if you can't prove it outside the bible, you can't prove it. Why? Does the bible not count as a historical document from that time period? Why does the bible not allowed to stand on its own as a multiply attested historical document? It absolutely should so Those are different reasons why? I support the concept that jesus needs to be born between 6 bc and 4 bc I've dealt with the corineous issue. I've showed you that there's a problem between caesar and herod Herod's getting ready to get replaced. He starts killing his kids. He's changing his will a bunch of times He loses his mind super coco puffs Here's what I think it is most reasonable for us to assume that jesus is born between 6 bc and 4 bc That is also in line with the smallest margin that most scholars are going to give you today Again, remember we're reaching 2 000 years back through history and we're going through written records that have survived I'm sure there are documents that did not survive I'm absolutely certain of it. I mean how many of you keep your text messages from 2 000 years ago? Right lucky your iphone your iphone is going to spread like yeah, totally Yeah, your iphone is going to stop receiving updates in about six years. So good luck with that Best I can tell you earliest date jesus was born in 6 bc latest date jesus was born in 4 bc Can I narrow it any further? This is letter g. What about the shepherds? In luke 2 8 He clearly portrays the shepherds as being in the fields on the night of christ's birth Does this directly imply a non winter birth? Yes and no so Is it the fact that the shepherds are in the fields with their flocks? Guarantee us a non winter birth I say yes and no and here's why We have no way to know how harsh the winters were on 6 bc and 4 bc We don't have any, you know, meteorological records that will go that far back So we can't know exactly what the winters were like. However We can't also know that jesus had to be born Exactly when the earliest christians thought he was born and i'm going to address that in my next question so I realized a few weeks ago. I said winter of 5 bc to 4 bc if you want the narrowest guess, that's my guess Can I support that with maximum scholarly research? No, that is minimum below the scholarly research What I can tell you assuredly that agrees with history and the majority of scholars alive today Jesus was born between 6 bc and 4 bc And the reason it's off from our calendars today is in 525 when dianysius made his original math He just got it off by four years That's not saying that all of the bible is wrong. That's not saying that christian history didn't happen It's just saying that in 525 homie had access to a little less things than we do today in 2025 and it's all right to admit So why do we think that jesus was born on december the 25th? This is the fun one Most people in secular society will want to come at us and accuse us Of overlaying the birth of jesus on top of any number of pagan festivals There was the roman festival of saturnalia which celebrated the birth of this person there was the birth of mithras from uh cute mel What religion was that? Zoroastrianism good job mel. Thank you. Dr. doug's probably in the chat right now calling me out on it Zoroastrianism Those are true that they happen to occur at the same time as jesus, but it is not true That's why we celebrate on december 25th. Here's the real answer. I feel like i'm at the end of the movie clue Here's how it could have happened, right? early christians early early first century christians believed that jesus was conceived on march 25th Why do they believe this? Why do they believe this? Because that's the date they believed jesus died And they had an idea that a prophet as great as jesus Would end his life on the same day that he began his life Now does that make it true? No Does that make it the historical reality of what they believed at that time? totally And if you count nine months from march the 25th you end up at december 25th This is the earliest christian evidence for why we celebrate christmas on december the 25th It's not about saturnalia. It's not about mithras. It's not about dying and rising gods It's about the fact that the earliest christians had a genuine belief That a prophet as great as jesus Would have ended his life In exact symmetry on the very day that he was conceived he was conceived on march 25th They believed he died on march 25th Bob's your uncle jesus had to be born on december the 25th Do I support that reasoning? No, I do not Those of you who know me, I do not believe that's the date that jesus died. I believe he died on friday April the 7th because he rose on a I believe he died on friday april the 7th of ad 30 you want the math on that just see me after church But this is what they believe at the time and our tradition of celebrating christmas on december the 25th Is set by the earliest christians in their belief of their day So do not let anybody come and get in your grill and tell you that you only celebrate the birth of jesus on december 25th Because of the romans no Sorry In fact the roman holiday of saturnalia wasn't even celebrated in six to four bc So go take that Mithras wasn't celebrated in 46 bc go take that The earliest christians believed he was conceived on march the 25th And had a genuine belief That he would have been born nine months after that That it doesn't their belief in the march 25th doesn't have to be true To be historical and it's that historic fact that brings us to why we're going to celebrate the birth of the savior on december 25th So here's letter i as I start tying this all together Remember bart ermine The idea that jesus did not exist is a modern notion It has no ancient precedent and it was made up in the 18th century If jesus existed which at this point is a historical fact Than the first christmas happened logical unstoppable non-emotional If jesus historically existed christmas happened period will stop While there are good details and debates to be had the most reliable details Bring us to the conclusion that the birth of jesus happened between six and four bc in bethlehem As the bible describes before the death of harrid the great There has never been a debate About jesus being born in bethlehem not one Nobody has ever tried to suppose that the birth of the savior happens somewhere else No one has ever tried to imply That the bethlehem story is not accurate Next sunday, we're going to bring this series in for its landing Next sunday and christmas eve as we examine the shepherd story So I don't want to unpack too much of it now and take away from next sunday But what I do want you to walk away with today or sit away with for those of you joining us at home The first christmas is a historical reality Not wishful thinking It's not hopeful mythology There was a night in bethlehem In six to four bc When the son of god was born To a young woman pledged to be married to a guy named joseph named mary Full stop It happened I think the weather outside this morning is beautiful If this was the weather on that night The shepherds were probably not out in the field right Can I know the type of winter that happened six bc? No, I can't but neither can the skeptic. I mean come on Don't hold me to that kind of standard. Can you tell me what the weather was like on december 25th 5 bc then shut up Like just don't press me on that There is not only excellent historical evidence to prove the life of jesus which makes his birth a logical necessity But there is excellent historical evidence That jesus was born in this 18 to 24 month window That is the That is the best limitations that I feel comfortable standing up here and giving you as the church I will give you that I believe number one It is a guarantee that jesus was born and I will go further and say I believe it is a guarantee Based on all the available evidence that we have to date that jesus was in fact born between six and four bc As the bible describes in bethlehem under the reign of harry the great And it had to be in that two-year window Because it's the two years that harry used to kill the children while jesus went to egypt. That is what makes the most logical sense to me So don't anybody move yet. I'm going to give you the takeaway and then mel will get ready for q and a Here's the takeaway Jesus was born in bethlehem six to four bc exactly as the bible describes That is I believe historical fact I've given you evidence. I've given you my argument if you would like to claim that jesus was not born You would have to defend that premise If you would like to claim that jesus was born outside the window that I have provided for you You would have to provide more evidence than I brought for you today That's also why I gave you links to all of the original source documents Protasitas, fletonius, josephus, pliny. I want you to see No matter what everyone outside these walls claims Our faith is grounded and rooted in real human history You know what's interesting? Buddhism could still exist if buddha was never real because buddhism is a philosophy Islam could still exist if muhammad was never real because islam is based on the quran not muhammad If and somebody else wrote the quran then islam could still exist Christianity could never exist If jesus never existed It has to be Historically reliable for it to exist at all And if anybody wants to come at us And say well, that's just what you believe is true. No, that's what is true and it's historically verifiable And if you want to try all of a sudden claim that it's not true Then you're going to have to come at me with more than you know hopes and dreams because the Record of history is on our side The first christmas happened in 64 bc