So for those of you who are new to catalyst we do something called the big bible story and wherever we are in the scriptures We start in genesis and we tell the story to get there So you understand how everything fits well I've made an interactive version of that that you can now use with your family And so i'm going to use that this morning to do our big bible story But we're going to stop at the end of the old testament because that's where we're at today So if you click on it, it'll load basically. It's the same thing we use for sermon notes, but it's just just for this Says the big bible story by pastor bill yohm. So here we go You're new to catalyst. This is the interactive part. So just yell out any answers, you know ready in the beginning god created the heavens and the Earth on the earth. He planted a garden at a place called Eden into eden he placed two human beings adam and eve because of the choice to reject god's design in eden sin corrupts the whole earth God selects a man to save the world from the flood that he's going to send that man's name is Noah number five later god selects a man and makes a covenant with him God promises to bless the whole world through his descendants got that man's first name before it was changed is abraham god changes his name to Abraham and you'll notice if you're following along with me I gave you bible verses for each of these so you can find all the right answers number six God repeats the covenant promises made to abraham's second born son whose name is isaac God repeats the covenant promise again to isaac's second born son whose name is Jacob number eight jacob's second youngest son is sold into slavery leading him Excuse me leading to him becoming high regent and saving his whole family from a famine that man's name is Joseph number nine Egypt later enslaves god's chosen people kills their children and they cry out for a deliverer God sends them a man born a slave raised in the palace and trained as a shepherd to save them that man's name is Moses God miraculously redeems his people from slavery by separating a body of water allowing his people to cross on dry ground the name of the body of water that parted for the people of israel is the the red sea number 11 after egypt God's people gather at the foot of a mountain and receive the law for their new nation The name of the mountain on which israel received the law of moses is Mount sinai Because they rejected god and worshiped false idols the generation that was saved from egypt was not allowed to enter the promised land Uh the land promised to them by god the number of years israel wandered in the wilderness is 40 years, that's right number 13 After the wilderness wandering god selects a new man to lead his people Into the land promised to them by god the man selected to lead israel into the promised land of canaan is joshua 14 after moving into canaan god's people began mixing their beliefs With the pagan people around them leading to the period of the judges and i'm going to change it here where everyone did what is right in their own Eyes for those who did that you'll notice since i'm doing everything in niv I had to change that answer so you got to go look that one up and see it 15 israel fully rejects god by asking him to make them like all the other nations around them and give them a a king 16 the first king of the united monarchy of israel is Saul followed by David and number 18 the third king of the united monarchy of israel is solomon number 19 after the death of solomon the kingdom of god is fractured by civil war the united king or the united kingdom is divided into the northern kingdom of israel and the southern kingdom of juda number 20 Continued disobedience leads to discipline for the northern kingdom of israel God uses a pagan nation to defeat them and carry off the people into captivity the name of the nation that carried the northern kingdom of israel into captivity is Assyria while in captivity the assyrian nation falls to a rising nation state Which is used to conquer the southern kingdom of juda carrying the rest of god's people into captivity the second pagan nation god uses is babalon number 22 after the exile period God uses a third pagan nation to overthrow babalon and send his people back To their promised land the nation that allowed god's people to return to their land is persia number 23 At the end of the old testament god's people have returned to their land Rebuilt their temple and cities and are awaiting the arrival of the anointed one who's called the messiah And that's the end of the old testament So now you guys have got it in the catalyst app you can do that over a meal or at lunch Quiz yourself and see how well you do But we start today at the end of the old testament And I don't even want to get into so bonus points. How many years between the old testament and the new testament? 400 years that doesn't mean history stopped that means scripture stopped God's not speaking to his people God's not revealing new scripture. He's not sending new prophets and it's into this Silent period that I want us to go today Before the angelic messages that start the new testament before the story we typically think of at christmas I want us to realize that the christmas story Begins at the beginning of the bible and it builds and builds and builds and it culminates at the birth of jesus But the birth of jesus didn't just start the story. So here. Let me give you the key thought that's going to hold all of Excuse me Mel can you grab me a bottle of water? Um, let me give you the key thought that's going to hold all of these messages together. Here it is christmas didn't happen in a vacuum The birth of jesus is a major event in a much larger story So christmas did not happen in a vacuum and the birth of jesus is a major event In a much larger story now for those of you who have the catalyst app If you're now that we're done with the big bible story if you also go here to The the blue button that says sermon notes. Not only will you be able to follow along with me You'll be able to see all of the notes are here um oh except No, because I made i'm sorry. I made the big bible story and that's what's took over that button So for today you just get to listen. That's okay So christmas didn't happen in a vacuum and here's I think the mistake that we make When we read or share the christmas story We often start at the angels message to mary or you know in the big bible story We start with the angels message to zachariah, but the birth of jesus was promised And if it was promised then that means the story about the birth of jesus Is a whole lot earlier in the bible hurrah everybody give a hand to melanie for throwing it So what I would like to present to you this morning Is five expectations of christmas from the old testament Before the angel shows up before mary finds out she's pregnant there is an expectation of what christmas should mean What christmas will do and it's that expectation that should Frame our reading of the birth of jesus So I want to give you five expectations of christmas from the old testament number one the promised son Of eden the promised son of eden i'm going to show you the very first reference to jesus christ in the entire bible It happens in chapter three Now in just to give you the short backstory in genesis chapter three chapters one and two god creates the earth God places adam and eve in the garden adam and eve then willfully choose their desires over god's design Bringing corruption into the world because of that in chapter three We read about god's judgment on sin and he gives judgment to the serpent He gives judgment to eve the woman and he also gives judgment to adam the man. I want to show you Genesis chapter three verse 15 This is often called the proto evangelum proto evangel evangelize, right? This is the very first reference here it is And I will put enmity Between you and the woman so this is the judgment on the serpent I will put enmity between you and the woman between your offspring and hers he Will crush your head? And you will strike his heel A couple things I want you to note from from genesis 315 number one god said that he placed enmity We don't really use that word in our in our modern english anymore. It means hostility conflict direct opposition So when god says I will put enmity Between you and the woman between your offspring and hers he will crush your head and you will strike his heel god is specifically saying that there is now spiritual conflict between satan the enemy and between humanity This is the world to which we are born into we are born into a world of spiritual conflict and that conflict is a direct result Of the corruption that comes out of eden, but praise god They don't even leave eden without a promised solution to this spiritual conflict between the enemy and humanity And he says here I will put enmity or conflict between you satan and the woman between your offspring Now we have to ask ourselves who is the offspring of satan angels in the bible don't actually have babies They don't reproduce so I would argue that here God is saying offspring in the nature of all of the fallen angels who followed satan and then who are the offspring of eve Well, all of humanity is technically the offspring of eve because we're all born from a woman However, notice when he says your offspring and hers he Will crush your head. It didn't say They will crush your head. It didn't say you ins y'all use guys, right? Didn't say any of those it said he Meaning god is promising before we ever left eden god is promising there will be one male human Who will come from the line of eve? Who will Fully and completely that's what crushed the head fully and completely defeat the enemy that is satan now I don't really think this is eve's fault if you continue to read in genesis They they leave the garden of eden and then they have their first two children. What's the name of adam and eve's firstborn child? Cain, that's right I don't really think it's eve's fault if you read chapter four. She says I have brought forth a man Yeah I don't think it's eve's fault. I think eve thought that cain was this promised son Because This is one of the things as you read scripture and the prophetic focus is sometimes really hard Imagine all of us are looking out at a mountain range. We can see the different mountain peaks But unless you're looking from the top you can't see the distance Between the mountains Right. That's what prophecy is like you could see them like this But you can't see them like this So from eve's perspective when she says I have brought forth the man She is thinking cain is going to be that promised son He is going to make right what mommy and daddy did wrong and fix the spiritual conflict in our world Rather than do that he killed his younger brother So spoiler alert if you haven't read genesis chapter four the bible gets off the rails real fast But I want you to see here in genesis chapter 13 The root the singular first expectation of christmas is that the child who will be born from the line of eve meaning a male human being This is why it's so important that jesus must be a human This is why when we got into the second century and you have those those heresies that say well He was just god. He just appeared to be a human. He was like jedi jesus He was like obi-wan yoshua, right? He wasn't really human. We just we lacked the ability to detect He was just putting on a face. No in order for this passage to be fulfilled The human being born from the line of eve will bring ultimate and full defeat of satan Also, look at the end of this verse The promised son of eden Will crush the head of the serpent that means dead however To do so the serpent will strike his heel So in order to defeat satan the promised son of eden Will have to be punctured and wounded but not killed But he will through that wounding completely crush satan does that make sense? So that's the very first expectation of christmas is we should be looking for a male human being Who is going to defeat? satan Now we fast forward in the bible a little bit not only do we have a promised son of eden But we have a promised blessing from abraham this one we talked about in our big bible story If you turn or tap in your bibles with me to genesis chapter 12 we're going to look at this is god's promise made to a dude named abraham He will change his name to abraham, but this is genesis chapter 12. We're going to look at verses one Through three the genesis 12 one to three The lord said to abraham Go from your country your people and your father's house To the land I will show you I will make you into a great nation and I will bless you and I will make your name great And you will be a blessing I will bless those who bless you And whoever curses you I will curse And all the peoples on the earth will be blessed through You there's a lot a lot a lot of god's action going on here All right pause kc. I need you to do me a favor because my sermon notes aren't working They don't have access to ask a question link Can you please go use donna's computer and put the sermon q and a button back on the home screen of the app that way? Once that's there everyone will still be able to ask questions if you're new to catalyst or you're joining us online I always want to give the church the opportunity to ask questions So the whole time i've been talking to you the other half of my adhd brain in the back Has been trying to troubleshoot and figure out how do I give everybody access to the question button? So now we can put that and the rest of the brain can go to sleep again. All right, here we go Genesis chapter 12 God is now making a very specific promise to not just all humans born from eve But now he's making a specific promise to this particular male human born from eve Notice in 12 1 the lord all capital letters What does that mean in your english bible when you see l o r d all in capital letters? What are they telling you? It's which name for god? Yahweh, that's right. So whenever you see l o r d all in capital letters in the old testament That is god's very special covenant name for his people. So they're literally saying yahweh said to abram Go from your country your people your father's household Notice that in order to follow god Abram had to let go of his original identity At this time in the ancient near east your country Your people and your father's household are the totality of your identity He asks him to give up all of that. Why because god is going to give him a new established country a new Established people and he will be the father of a new household This is literally kind of what paul said with the old man and the new man Abram had to let go of who he was in order to become who god wanted him to be And then furthermore the end of verse one to the land. I will show you Jerry, I need you to pack up. I need you to grab jen and sophia and I need you to start driving west I'll tell you when you get there There's an awful lot of faith in that Well lord, how well how long we're gonna go do I gas up now and then do I bring an extra tank? Do we need to grab lunch? Am I gonna hit the wah wah and get me a drink first? I mean like there's a lot of of openness For god saying I want you to give up all of your identity everything that makes you you and I want you to go Until I tell you to stop Abram had to follow on faith because there was nothing else left God asked him to give everything up asked him to follow and go exactly where he wanted him to go Which then gets you to verse two I will make you into a great nation. So because Abram gave up country people father and was willing to follow on faith because of all of that Then we get to verse two. I will make you into a great nation the nation that was That abraham belonged to he doesn't need to be in anymore because he will now be the very beginning or the starter Of a new nation and that's what god is going to do in him from this point. Does that make sense to everybody? All right. Thank you casey for everybody who has the catalyst app if you open it The sermon q a button is now back right there on your home screen If at any point during the rest of my teaching or sermon you think of a question that you want to ask All you have to do is click that button and everything else will work according to schedule So here we go Verse two god promises to make him into a great nation and then this is what he says I will bless you You don't have to worry jen. You don't have to worry about building your nation yourself. I will do it I will look at all the i wills here. I will bless you meaning you will live in my favor I will make your name great meaning. I will literally make it heavy. I will make it heavy when compared to everybody else You will be great and This is why I like you will be a blessing Most of the time when people want to be blessed by god, they want to be the recipient, right? I want god to be the initiator And I want to be the receiver of blessing here What god says in verse two is not only am I going to make you a great nation Not only will I bless you but through my blessing you you will become a blessing to others So blessing went beyond abram and it turned into what would come from abram will be a blessing to others and then we get to verse three I will bless those who bless you and curse those or excuse me I will bless those who bless you and whoever curses you I will curse And the end of verse three super important and all the people on earth all All the people on earth will be blessed through you So now not only are we looking for the promised son of eden which means i'm looking for a male human to be born to defeat satan but now we add to that our second expectation i'm looking for Some sort of blessing for the entire earth every human being to come from specifically the line of Abraham isaac and jacob and I say all three because these covenant promises are repeated and we did that in the big bible story So it's not just a descendant of abraham. It must be a descendant of abraham through isaac through jacob So that's the second expectation first promised son of eden second promised uh blessing from abraham Now look at the third one here. We have a promised king From david so the promised king from david turn or tap with me to second samuel chapter seven Second chamber samuel chapter seven The backstory here King david has uh defeated goliath. He is now king He is now old and getting ready to die and this is the blessing that god gives To king david at the end of his reign take a look at second samuel chapter seven We're just going to look at verses 12 and 13 here When your days are over And you rest with your ancestors I will raise up your offspring to succeed you Your own flesh and blood And I will establish his kingdom 13 He is the one who will build a house For my name And I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever Everybody who ever saw the sandlot job forever Biggest word here. So let's go back to verse 12 When your days are over that's god speaking to the human king david meaning when he dies after the life of The human king david and you rest with your ancestors, which is their common understanding of death when you die You rest to be with your ancestors I meaning god God will raise up Your offspring to succeed you your own flesh and blood stop So now i'm not just looking for a single male human And i'm not just looking for a single male human Born in the line of abraham isaac and jacob now I can limit the scope even further I am looking for a male human from the line of abraham isaac jacob And now david But now it's not just there it's here and now it's here and we get an additional detail This human who comes from the line of eve through abraham isaac jacob and david He's not just going to be any human being he's going to be a king and specifically He is going to be the king who will receive the kingdom of israel david's throne Remember david sat on the throne of the united monarchy of israel, right? He was the middle guy the first one was Saul and the third one was Solomon david's in the middle. So david's throne is the king the united kingdom of israel before the Civil war just to make sure everybody's still paying attention before the civil war So when god says here when your days are over meaning after the life of human david and you rest with your ancestors again same point I will raise up your offspring to succeed you your own flesh and blood Again, this is we're not just looking for jedi jesus. We're not looking for a holographic savior We are looking for an actual human born Descendant now through the line of david and we are told at the end of 12. I will establish his kingdom So now the human king to be born from the line of david will rule over a kingdom established by god himself You with me so far? Then 13 another detail He is the one Who will build a house for my name? And I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever Now I have to admit those of you who like your bible studying 13 At least the first half of it could refer to king solomon Because solomon did in fact build a temple However, the latter part of 13. I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever Cannot apply to king solomon because solomon is not immortal and he's still over the so While we could argue that Solomon is in fact a human son of david who did in fact The temple or the house of god 13 cannot refer in its entirety to solomon Solomon is not the king of israel today Does that make sense to everybody? I do want to point out, you know Sometimes again when you're looking at the prophet and you're looking at the two mountain peaks You got to tilt sideways and go well do both mountain peaks still fit the same one? So I would submit since the end of verse 13 And I will establish his throne forever cannot apply to king solomon Then all of 12 and 13 do not apply to solomon Solomon could have fulfilled some of it like a foreshadow, right? Like a type those of you like your bible study You know that word a type of christ is an image in the old testament of something that jesus did in the new testament But I want you to see here the the end of verse 13 the kingdom forever And just ask yourself How does somebody be king forever How does a human being be king forever they don't But what if that human being could live forever Then all of a sudden it's a choice I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever the expectation of the davidic king. I was I was I was Shortened it down to a forever king In order to have a forever king you first have to have a forever human Does that make sense? You first have to have a human being Who either doesn't ever die is born immortal from day one or A human being who can defeat death And come back to life either way, that's the only way you get to forever king So now i'm looking for the promised son of eden who's going to defeat the enemy and end the spiritual war between satan and humanity That person's going to come from the line of abraham isaac and jacob That person's also going to come through the line of david and be a king and inherit the entire united monarchy of israel And then we go forward one more time. Now. Let's look at the promised messiah from isaiah This one's going to sound familiar. This is a classic christmas passage isaiah chapter 9 verses 6 and 7 Isaiah chapter 9 verses 6 and 7 For to us a child is born to us a son is given And the government will be on his shoulder And he will be called wonderful counselor mighty god everlasting father prince of peace and then verse 7 Of the greatness of his government and peace There will be no end He will reign on david's throne and over his kingdom Establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever The zeal of the lord notice the capital letters the zeal of yahweh almighty will accomplish this So let's rewind here because whilst this is I would say a classic christmas passage We're used to reading there's a lot of really good details in here So again verse 6 tells us a child is born. We're really wearing this one out, but it's important theologically The promised messiah must be born a human being Right onto us a child is born a son is given it's going to be a male human being we know that But now we get something new The government will be on his shoulders. Well, we learned that with the davidic passage Whoever the messiah is will be king over the united monarchy of israel. He will be Ruling over an established Government, but then we get something more here Wonderful counsel This is a term that I don't think Means the same thing in our language as it would have meant to the original readers of the book of isaiah So when we hear wonderful counselor, um, it kind of sounds like awesome therapist Right. Oh Man, I have such an awesome therapist. He's a wonderful counselor That's really not what isaiah is saying about jesus Is saying about jesus Whilst I think jesus is an awesome therapist and you should pray to him and talk to him about your problems Because he listens and he's god That's not what what isaiah is saying about jesus what isaiah is literally that word wonderful Is from the same root word as wonder us To do wonder to perform acts that leave us in awe and wonder So when you hear wonderful, I want you to think the word miraculous Right Not the animated show from fran not that one for the kids who like network, but Someone who can work miracles who does things of a miraculous power? So wonderful wondrous miraculous and then counselor not therapist But a leader or guide or one who directs right a counselor is one who gives counsel And offers direction Right kings of old would have councils or consoles who they would listen to right here We're talking about for unto us a child is born a son is given a human being Who will lead a government from the throne? And he will be a miraculous Leader he will be a leader who works miracles He will also be mighty god Now we're adding a totally new expectation Not only do I need to have a son born from eve abraham isaac jacob david be a king work miracles But this son will actually be Mighty god that is saying equal to yaweh god everlasting father the eternal Father not just father over subjects But he will be the eternal king over an eternal kingdom And he will be the prince of peace the messiah's reign will be known as a leader of peace you put all this together Now we're really starting and I gotta say this Isiah is not the end of the old testament Right We're still more than 400 years before jesus is ever born, but we are really starting to scope in On there has to be someone Born from eve abraham isaac jacob Born from the line of david able to inherit a throne who will be a person who works miracles And now who will also be god. How am I gonna have and you just gotta think about this If we are in the intertestamental period, right? We're during the time of alexander the great let's say before he dies We're in the time of alexander the great and we're hebers. We have all of these passages We have all of these scriptures I have to say like rod. Don't you think it would be a little challenging? To believe that a human being will be also be born god Like I would think that would be tough like just just speaking for myself trying to comprehend Sharita, how's god gonna do all these things? How are we gonna have a son of eve abraham isaac jacob from the line of david? He's gonna be a king people don't work miracles anymore. That was the old prophets But they've been gone for a couple hundred years now god's not doing that anymore And now all of a sudden we go back and we read isaiah The promised messiah will be a miracle working leader. He will be god. He will be everlasting He'll be immortal and his reign will bring peace And then verse seven Of the greatness of his government and peace there will be no end He will be a king with no end to his kingdom He will reign on david's throne. We saw that already, but there's a reconfirmation of it He will reign on david's throne over his kingdom establishing and upholding it with here it is with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever When the promised one comes when the anointed one of god comes He will usher in a kingdom built on righteousness built on justice reflecting peace He will be both human and god And we haven't even made it to malachai But there's one more promise if that wasn't enough To say wow how many people really meet these requirements barry. Let's go one. Let's go one further today the promised city of bephlehem The promised city of bephlehem mica chapter five verse two But you bephlehem bephretha Though you are small among the clans of juda Though you are small among the clans of juda Out of you will come for me One who will be ruler over israel Whose origins are of old from ancient times The word bephlehem literally means city of anybody know No david city of david Micah writes this passage the prophet micah not my incredibly good-looking son The prophet mica writes this passage 700 years Before the birth of jesus so not only Am I looking for a son born of a human being from the descendancy of eve? Now through abraham through isaac through jacob. It's got to inherit the throne of david. He's going to be a miraculous worker He's going to be both god and man and aron if that wasn't enough Homies also going to be born in this specific city Now three weeks from now, we're going to add to all of this must be born within this many years I did the math as I was getting ready for this series He has to be fulfill all of this old testament expectation But when you get to daniel when we start doing the math the 70 weeks and it's lots of math. It's gonna be really fun Jesus has to be born within a specific set of years Because of all the other things we're gonna look at But here I just want you to ask the question How many human beings male human beings ladies i'm not being offensive, but it did say a son, right? He will crush all the way back from genesis 3. It was a promised son How many promised sons Are born in the line of abraham isaac jacob david who are born both human and divine Who are miraculous leaders who rule with righteousness justice and peace and are born in bethlehem I don't know about you, but i'm thinking that's a pretty short list just to start with And we haven't even made it to the coming weeks where we're going to add even more details What I want you to see and understand Is that before we get to the new testament before we get to angelic messages and glory to god in the highest and Shepherds out in the field with their sheep and magi following a star and you know when you set your nativity set up Make sure you put the wise men a little further from jesus than the shepherds. Please give me that one favor I don't mean to burst anybody's bubble, but the magi were not there the night jesus was born We'll get into that later, but they weren't the shepherds were there the shepherds were right there in the fields outside and also need to understand Bethlehem is not a bust bustling metropolis Like I realize i'm not the from here guy in delaware I realize i'm not the from here guy in delaware, but somebody shout out the name of a town from delaware That if you ain't never driven through it, you don't even know what's there Loud somebody Greenwood Does anybody know where greenwood is how many show hands how many people have been to greenwood delaware? All right, one two, three, four five six. All right That's what this bethlehem is This is legit the back 40 like this is the how do I get to joseph's house? Well, you go past that broke down tractor not the one that's green and one it's rusted, right? You go past that you turn left at the horse farm and you keep going until you see bubba's broke down trailer And it's five trailers beyond that Like this is where jesus is born jesus is from the sticks man and that's why it's so funny because I mean it would be cool to say jesus is born in like washington dc or london or Paris one of these big bustling cities that you and I think of today But no when you track through all of the old testament expectation There is absolutely a promised messiah an anointed one We miss that because we're looking back through the lens of time and we see jesus Before we see the old testament prophecies, right our mountain range is reversed We're looking back through history And we're closer connected to jesus than we are to mica or to isaiah or to david or to abraham or to eve But the story of jesus's birth Doesn't start in first century rome the story of jesus's birth starts in the garden of eden when adam and eve Choose their desires over god's design And then it begins to build and to grow and to unfold throughout the old testament Until and we're just going to stop here there's there's other passages But I have to admit I went stupidly long last week and so i'm trying to make sure we don't make that mistake this week Because jim's got to get to his lunch because he gets angry, right? I also picked on jim a whole lot this week says why you notice I didn't do a lot of jim jokes Because he's slow to listen so I only can do so many at one time This and so let me give you the takeaway As I as I bring this in for landing don't anybody move yet though because I still want to do q a But I just want you to see this. Here's the takeaway The expectation of christmas Is a ruler who will be born in bethlehem Who is both god and man? descended from eve Abraham and david will establish an everlasting kingdom Or and will establish an everlasting kingdom of peace justice and righteousness I don't know about you, but who'd that sound like? Right like before we ever make it to the new testament We need to understand that it can't just be anybody You can't just pick a random person from history and make them fit that bill make them fit those expectations The old testament left us beautifully clear clues When we get into the timing of christmas, we'll add in daniel and math and we'll see the years and how that all works But the old testament is not um separate from christmas The old testament is the foundation On which christmas occurs and if we miss that We are not going to properly understand the birth of jesus in the first century Roman historical context you're not going to understand the jewish people's desire for the anointed one the throne of david their Kingdom back their rulership back. You don't understand that they were expecting a military ruler Not a sacrificial shepherd. You won't understand why they missed the boat. Why they don't get jesus Why did they crucify him? Why does he rise from the dead? Why does he do miracles all of that's here? All of that's left for us As the blueprint of who to expect at christmas Does that make sense to everyone christmas starts in genesis not in math