Series Overview
Monday, November 24, 2025 12:40 PM
Heaven Came Down
11/30: The Expectation of Christmas
12/7: The Lineage of Christmas
12/14: Dating the First Christmas
12/21: The Witnesses of Christmas
12/24: The Reason for Christmas
Heaven Came Down
11/30 -The
Christmas 2025 Page 1

01: The Expectation of Christmas
Monday, November 24, 2025 1:36 PM
Key Thought:
Christmas didn't happen in a vacuum. The birth of Jesus
is a major event in a much larger story.
The Mistake of Christmas:
When we read or share the Christmas story, we often
start at the angel's message to Mary. This is a mistake.
The birth of Jesus is a major event in a much larger story.
5 Expectations of Christmas from the Old Testament
A: The Promised Son of Eden
Genesis 3:15
15 And I will put enmity between you and the woman,
and between your offspring and hers; he will crush your
head, and you will strike his heel.”
Enmity between - or hostility; conflict between Satan
and humanity; corruption in our world
Your offspring - first mention of Jesus in the Bible
Crush your head - the Promised son of Eve will fully
defeat Satan in a final battle
Christmas 2025 Page 2

defeat Satan in a final battle
Strike his heel - the Promised Son of Eden will be
wounded, but not defeated by Satan
B: The Promised Blessing of Abraham
Genesis 12:1–3
1 The LORD had said to Abram, “Go from your country,
your people and your father’s household to the land I will
show you.
Country, people, father - change of identity
To the land - God's plan is people and land
I will show you - Abraham walked by faith
2 “I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you;
I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing.
Great nation - a people group; lit. smarm
Be a blessing - the blessing went beyond Abraham
3 I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you
I will curse; and all peoples on earth will be blessed
through you.”
Christmas 2025 Page 3

through you.”
All the people - the scope of the blessing
Through you - the lineage of the blessing
C: The Promised King of David
2 Samuel 7:12–13
12 When your days are over and you rest with your
ancestors, I will raise up your offspring to succeed you,
your own flesh and blood, and I will establish his
kingdom.
Days are over - after David's life
I will raise up - a work of God, not man
Your offspring - must be from the line of David
I will establish - work of God, not man
13 He is the one who will build a house for my Name, and
I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
Build a house for my name - the son will restore
worship
I will establish - this Kingdom will be built by God
Christmas 2025 Page 4

I will establish - this Kingdom will be built by God
Kingdom forever - a "forever king" is needed
D: The Promised Messiah of Isaiah
Isaiah 9:6–7
6 For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the
government will be on his shoulders. And he will be called
Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father,
Prince of Peace.
Child is born - the Messiah would be human
Government… shoulders - the Messiah will rule over
an earthly Kingdom of God
Wonderful Counselor - lit. "miraculous leader or
guide"
Mighty God - the Messiah will also be God
Everlasting Father - lit. "eternal" father; not just a
'father' over subjects, but an eternal father of a
Kingdom
Prince of Peace - the Messiah will reign in peace
7 Of the greatness of his government and peace there will
Christmas 2025 Page 5

7 Of the greatness of his government and peace there will
be no end. He will reign on David’s throne and over his
kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and
righteousness from that time on and forever. The zeal of
the LORD Almighty will accomplish this.
There will be no end - to the greatness of His
government and peace
On David's throne - from the lineage of David
Establishing and upholding with justice - the
Messiah's reign will be built on Justice
E: The Promised City of Bethlehem
Micah 5:2
2 “But you, Bethlehem Ephrathah, though you are small
among the clans of Judah, out of you will come for me
one who will be ruler over Israel, whose origins are from
of old, from ancient times.”
Bethlehem - lit. "City of David"; 700 years before
Jesus is born, Micah names the Messiah's birthplace
The Takeaway:
The Expectation of Christmas is a ruler will be born in
Christmas 2025 Page 6

The Expectation of Christmas is a ruler will be born in
Bethlehem; who is both God and man; descended from
Eve, Abraham, and David; and will establish an
everlasting kingdom of peace, justice, and righteousness.
Christmas 2025 Page 7

02: The Lineage of Christmas
Monday, November 24, 2025 1:39 PM
Key Thought:
Christmas didn't happen in a vacuum. The birth of Jesus
is a major event in a much larger story.
The Mistake of Christmas:
When we read or share the Christmas story, we often
start at the angel's message to Mary. This is a mistake.
The birth of Jesus is a major event in a much larger story.
Matthew's Genealogy:
Matthew 1:1–17
1 This is the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah the son of
David, the son of Abraham:
2 Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of
Jacob, Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers,
3 Judah the father of Perez and Zerah, whose mother was
Tamar, Perez the father of Hezron, Hezron the father of
Ram,
4 Ram the father of Amminadab, Amminadab the father
of Nahshon, Nahshon the father of Salmon,
5 Salmon the father of Boaz, whose mother was Rahab,
Christmas 2025 Page 8

5 Salmon the father of Boaz, whose mother was Rahab,
Boaz the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth, Obed
the father of Jesse,
6 and Jesse the father of King David. David was the father
of Solomon, whose mother had been Uriah’s wife,
7 Solomon the father of Rehoboam, Rehoboam the father
of Abijah, Abijah the father of Asa,
8 Asa the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father
of Jehoram, Jehoram the father of Uzziah,
9 Uzziah the father of Jotham, Jotham the father of Ahaz,
Ahaz the father of Hezekiah,
10 Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, Manasseh the
father of Amon, Amon the father of Josiah,
11 and Josiah the father of Jeconiah and his brothers at
the time of the exile to Babylon.
12 After the exile to Babylon: Jeconiah was the father of
Shealtiel, Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel,
13 Zerubbabel the father of Abihud, Abihud the father of
Eliakim, Eliakim the father of Azor,
14 Azor the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Akim,
Akim the father of Elihud,
Christmas 2025 Page 9

Akim the father of Elihud,
15 Elihud the father of Eleazar, Eleazar the father of
Matthan, Matthan the father of Jacob,
16 and Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary,
and Mary was the mother of Jesus who is called the
Messiah.
17 Thus there were fourteen generations in all from
Abraham to David, fourteen from David to the exile to
Babylon, and fourteen from the exile to the Messiah.
Luke's Genealogy
Luke 3:21–38
21 When all the people were being baptized, Jesus was
baptized too. And as he was praying, heaven was opened
22 and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form
like a dove. And a voice came from heaven: “You are my
Son, whom I love; with you I am well pleased.”
23 Now Jesus himself was about thirty years old when he
began his ministry. He was the son, so it was thought, of
Joseph, the son of Heli,
24 the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melki,
the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph,
Christmas 2025 Page 10

the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph,
25 the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of
Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai,
26 the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of
Semein, the son of Josek, the son of Joda,
27 the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of
Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri,
28 the son of Melki, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam,
the son of Elmadam, the son of Er,
29 the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim,
the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
30 the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph,
the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim,
31 the son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of
Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
32 the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the
son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon,
33 the son of Amminadab, the son of Ram, the son of
Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah,
34 the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham,
Christmas 2025 Page 11

34 the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham,
the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,
35 the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the
son of Eber, the son of Shelah,
36 the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of
Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
37 the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of
Jared, the son of Mahalalel, the son of Kenan,
38 the son of Enosh, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the
son of God.
1: The Gospels are Different Books
Authors
Matthew is written by one of the original twelve
disciples who was a Jewish tax collector before
following Jesus
Luke is written by a historian and gentile travelling
companion of the Apostle Paul who was a doctor
before following Jesus
Audience
Matthew is written to a Jewish audience.
Christmas 2025 Page 12

Matthew is written to a Jewish audience.
Luke is writing to a wider gentile audience
Purpose
Matthew is writing to show Jesus is the promised
Messiah, the Davidic heir and the new Moses.
Luke is writing to show that Jesus is the Son of God
2: Similarities in the Genealogies
Miraculous virgin birth
Matthew 1:18, Luke 1:27
Joseph and Mary are Jesus's parents
Matthew 1:18, Luke 1:27
Jesus is descended from Abraham and David
Matthew 1:2,6; Luke 3:31,33
Neither author is just listing data
3: Differences in the Genealogies
Matthew places his genealogy first in his gospel
Luke places the genealogy between Jesus's baptism and
Christmas 2025 Page 13

Luke places the genealogy between Jesus's baptism and
temptation
Matthew runs from Abraham to Jesus
Luke runs from Jesus to Adam
Matthew includes women and brothers
Luke lists only sons of their fathers
Matthew list is condensed
Luke's list is longer
3x14 - David (dvd) is three letters adding to 14
4: What does all of this mean?
Matthew and Luke are teaching us something different
about Jesus in the way they list the genealogy
Matthew is showing his first century audience that Jesus
is promised Messiah from the line of Abraham and David
who, like the new Moses, has come to give a new law on
our hearts.
Luke is show that Jesus is the Son of God, the new Adam,
the Savior of the world.
5: The Curse of Jehoiachin
Christmas 2025 Page 14

Jeremiah 22:28–30
28 Is this man Jehoiachin a despised, broken pot, an
object no one wants? Why will he and his children be
hurled out, cast into a land they do not know?
29 O land, land, land, hear the word of the LORD!
30 This is what the LORD says: “Record this man as if
childless, a man who will not prosper in his lifetime, for
none of his offspring will prosper, none will sit on the
throne of David or rule anymore in Judah.”
The problem: How can the Messiah be a descendant of
David without coming from the line of Jehoiachin?
Luke 1:30–33
30 But the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary; you
have found favor with God.
31 You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you are
to call him Jesus.
32 He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most
High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father
David,
33 and he will reign over Jacob’s descendants forever; his
Christmas 2025 Page 15

33 and he will reign over Jacob’s descendants forever; his
kingdom will never end.”
Luke 3:31 - "the son of Nathan, the son of David"
Matthew 1:6 - "David was the father of Solomon"
The Takeaway:
Jesus is the biological and legal descendant of David who
will inherit the throne and defeat the devil.
Christmas 2025 Page 16

03: Dating the First Christmas
Monday, November 24, 2025 1:39 PM
Key Thought:
Christmas didn't happen in a vacuum. The birth of Jesus
is a major event in a much larger story.
The Mistake of Christmas:
When we read or share the Christmas story, we often
start at the angel's message to Mary. This is a mistake.
The birth of Jesus is a major event in a much larger story.
The Dating of Christmas
A: Jesus was a real person in history, not a myth.
"Jesus' crucifixion is as sure as anything historical can
ever be." - Skeptical Scholar John Domonic Crossan
"The idea that Jesus did not exist is a modern notion.
It has no ancient precedents. It was made up in the
eighteenth century." - Atheist Scholar Bart Ehrman
“Jesus certainly existed; he was a Galilean Jew who
was baptized by John and was crucified under Pontius
Pilate.” - Jewish Scholar Geza Vermes
“The existence of Jesus of Nazareth is as well
established as anything from the ancient world.”
Christmas 2025 Page 17

established as anything from the ancient world.”
- Christian Scholar N.T. Wright
“Virtually every competent scholar in the world
agrees that Jesus existed as a historical figure.”
- Christian Scholar Craig Blomberg
B: Extra-biblical Sources for Jesus
“Christus, from whom the name [Christians] had its
origin, suffered the extreme penalty during the reign
of Tiberius at the hands of one of our procurators,
Pontius Pilatus.” - Annals 15.44
- Roman Historical Tacitus (AD 116)
“Now there was about this time Jesus, a wise man…
and the tribe of Christians, so named from him, are
not extinct to this day.”- Antiquities of the Jews, 18.3
- Jewish Historian Josephus (AD 93)
"They also declared that their entire fault or error
consisted in meeting before dawn on a fixed day, and
singing responsively a hymn to Christ as if to a god…"-
Epistle 10.96
- Roman Governor Pliny (AD 112)
"Since the Jews constantly made disturbances at the
instigation of Chrestus, he [Claudius] expelled them
from Rome." - Lives of the Caesars 25.4
Christmas 2025 Page 18

from Rome." - Lives of the Caesars 25.4
- Roman Historian Suetonius (AD 120)
C: A Note About Dating
The AUC dating system used the founding of the city
of Rome (753 BC) as its starting point. This was the
first dating system used by Christians.
In 525, Pope John I asked a monk named Dionysius to
create a standard calendar for the Western church.
He centered the dating of that new calendar on the
birth of Jesus and created, AD 1.
In 731, an English monk named Bede added counting
backwards from the birth of Jesus creating what we
now know as, 1 BC.
There is no "year zero" between 1BC and AD1.
In the 1960s, BCE/CE began to be used in
replacement of BC/AD as a way to not assume
Christianity for readers and students of history. The
changing letters do not reflect a change in dates. The
Christian system of dating has already been adopted
worldwide.
The reason we no longer view Jesus as being born in 1
AD is we have discovered the original calculations for
Christmas 2025 Page 19

AD is we have discovered the original calculations for
the birth of Jesus were off by 4 to 6 years.
Like bookends, we can establish the earliest and latest
dates possible for the first Christmas using the Biblical
data.
D: The Latest Date for the First Christmas
Matthew 2:1
1 After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, during the
time of King Herod, Magi from the east came to
Jerusalem
Luke 1:5
5 In the time of Herod king of Judea there was a priest
named Zechariah, who belonged to the priestly division of
Abijah; his wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of
Aaron.
Jesus was born during the reign of King Herod. This
means the death of King Herod is the "end" date for
the birth of Jesus.
Latest Date: March/April of 4 BC
E: The Earliest Date for the First Christmas
Matthew 2:16
16 When Herod realized that he had been outwitted by
Christmas 2025 Page 20

16 When Herod realized that he had been outwitted by
the Magi, he was furious, and he gave orders to kill all
the boys in Bethlehem and its vicinity who were two years
old and under, in accordance with the time he had
learned from the Magi.
Herod chose two years as the time frame for killing
the children. This implies the birth of Jesus was less
than two years before.
F: The Quirinius Problem
Luke 2:1–3
1 In those days Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a
census should be taken of the entire Roman world.
2 (This was the first census that took place while Quirinius
was governor of Syria.)
3 And everyone went to their own town to register.
The problem: Josephus put Quirinius as governor in
AD 6-7. How can we resolve this:
a: Quirinius was governor twice
b: the counting and taxing of citizens takes place at
different times
c: "first" can also be translated "before"
Christmas 2025 Page 21

"This was BEFORE census Quirinius governor Syria"
d: King Herod lost favor with Caesar in 7BC, it is very
reasonable for Ceasar to call for a census in
preparation for changing leadership of Judea.
Earliest Date: 6 BC
G: What about the Shepherds?
Luke 2:8 clearly portrays the shepherds in the fields
on the night of Christ's birth. Doesn't this imply a non-
winter birth?
Yes and no. We have no way to know how harsh or
mild any particular winter was at this time. So, this
isn't an impossible problem.
H: Why December 25th?
Early Christians believed Jesus was conceived on
March 25th. Thus, December 25th is 9 months after
this.
This belief PRE-DATES the accusation that Christmas
was only placed in December to overtake pagan
holiday celebrations.
Christmas 2025 Page 22

I: Bringing It All Together
"The idea that Jesus did not exist is a modern notion. It
has no ancient precedents. It was made up in the
eighteenth century." - Atheist Scholar Bart Ehrman
If Jesus existed, then
the first Christmas happened.
While there are good details and debates to be had, the
most reliable details bring us to the conclusion that the
birth of Jesus happened between 6-4 BC in Bethlehem as
the Bible describes before the death of Herod the Great.
The Takeaway:
Jesus was born in Bethlehem around 6-4 BC as the Bible
describes.
Christmas 2025 Page 23

04: The Witnesses of Christmas
Monday, November 24, 2025 1:39 PM
Key Thought:
Christmas didn't happen in a vacuum. The birth of Jesus
is a major event in a much larger story.
The Mistake of Christmas:
When we read or share the Christmas story, we often
start at the angel's message to Mary. This is a mistake.
The birth of Jesus is a major event in a much larger story.
The Witnesses of Christmas
Luke 2:1–16
1 In those days Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a
census should be taken of the entire Roman world.
2 (This was the first census that took place while Quirinius
was governor of Syria.)
3 And everyone went to their own town to register.
4 So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in
Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem the town of David,
because he belonged to the house and line of David.
5 He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged
to be married to him and was expecting a child.
Christmas 2025 Page 24

to be married to him and was expecting a child.
6 While they were there, the time came for the baby to
be born,
7 and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped
him in cloths and placed him in a manger, because there
was no guest room available for them.
8 And there were shepherds living out in the fields
nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night.
9 An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of
the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified.
10 But the angel said to them, “Do not be afraid. I bring
you good news that will cause great joy for all the people.
11 Today in the town of David a Savior has been born to
you; he is the Messiah, the Lord.
12 This will be a sign to you: You will find a baby wrapped
in cloths and lying in a manger.”
13 Suddenly a great company of the heavenly host
appeared with the angel, praising God and saying,
14 “Glory to God in the highest heaven, and on earth
peace to those on whom his favor rests.”
Christmas 2025 Page 25

15 When the angels had left them and gone into heaven,
the shepherds said to one another, “Let’s go to
Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which
the Lord has told us about.”
16 So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph, and
the baby, who was lying in the manger.
-------------------------------------------------------------
A: The First Christmas
Luke 2:1-7
1 In those days Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a
census should be taken of the entire Roman world.
Caesar Augustus - Luke links to the birth of Jesus to
the larger history of his day
2 (This was the first census that took place while Quirinius
was governor of Syria.)
First census - can also be "before census"
3 And everyone went to their own town to register.
Their own town - there is evidence of this in other
Christmas 2025 Page 26

Their own town - there is evidence of this in other
Roman provinces
4 So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in
Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem the town of David,
because he belonged to the house and line of David.
From Nazareth - where they LIVED
To Bethlehem - where the family was FROM
5 He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged
to be married to him and was expecting a child.
Pledged - engaged and responsible for
6 While they were there, the time came for the baby to
be born,
The time came - prophetic providence; Bethlehem is
named in Micah 5:2
7 and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped
him in cloths and placed him in a manger, because there
was no guest room available for them.
Her firstborn - implies other children
Christmas 2025 Page 27

Wrapped him - wrapping of the limbs; thought to
help strengthen the limbs
In a manger - a feeding place for livestock; a stark
imagery of reversal; the divine Son of God in a place
used to feed lowly animals
No guest room - not an INN, and there is no INN-
KEEPER; no guest room anywhere in Bethlehem for
them to stay, likely because of the amount of people
travelling for the census
B: The Announcement of the First Christmas
Luke 2:8-14
8 And there were shepherds living out in the fields
nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night.
And there were - notice the scene change in the
language
Shepherds - a lowly and dirty job at the time
Living… in the fields - dirty; smelly; unclean; usually
from March to November
9 An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of
Christmas 2025 Page 28

9 An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of
the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified.
Angel of the Lord - God's angelic messenger
Were terrified - the normal response to an angel
10 But the angel said to them, “Do not be afraid. I bring
you good news that will cause great joy for all the people.
Do not be afraid - standard opening for an angel
I bring you - the message is FROM GOD
Good news - lit. "I /evangel-EEZ-oh/ you
11 Today in the town of David a Savior has been born to
you; he is the Messiah, the Lord.
Today - the shepherds are given real-time
information on the birth of Jesus
Town of David - Bethlehem has always been the place
identified
Has been born - Jesus didn’t appear or materialize as
the Messiah, He was born
Christmas 2025 Page 29

Savior, Messiah, Lord - mission, royalty, authority
12 This will be a sign to you: You will find a baby wrapped
in cloths and lying in a manger.”
Be a sign - the way to find the Savior; the angel
anticipated their seeking out the child
Wrapped in cloths - this would be normal of a loving
mother
In a manger - this would be very abnormal
13 Suddenly a great company of the heavenly host
appeared with the angel, praising God and saying,
A great company - the chorus of angels gave the
motivation to seek the Savior
Praising God - God is worshipped for the arrival of the
Savior King
14 “Glory to God in the highest heaven, and on earth
peace to those on whom his favor rests.”
Peace to those - the gift we receive from God is peace
Christmas 2025 Page 30

Peace to those - the gift we receive from God is peace
thru Jesus
His favor rest - salvation is provided by God, we can’t
earn it
C: The Witnesses of the First Christmas
Luke 2:15-16
15 When the angels had left them and gone into heaven,
the shepherds said to one another, “Let’s go to
Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which
the Lord has told us about.”
When the angels left - another scene change
Said to one another - more than one shepherd; how
many not stated
Let’s go see - the immediate reaction is to seek the
Savior
16 So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph, and
the baby, who was lying in the manger.
Hurried off - speaks to their motivation
Mary, Joseph, and the baby - another confirmation of
Christmas 2025 Page 31

Mary, Joseph, and the baby - another confirmation of
the parents of Jesus
In the manger - the “odd” sign they needed to find
the right baby
D: Why Shepherds?
We romanticize shepherds in the Bible because of King
David and Jesus. But Luke’s world saw them differently.
Shepherds were dirty distrusted outcasts in a society
built on ritual cleanliness and powerful hierarchy.
Luke uses the shepherds to prepare his audience for the
fact that Savior Jesus will be for “all people”.
The Takeaway:
The shepherds of the first Christmas remind us that Jesus
came first to the outcast.
Christmas 2025 Page 32

05: The Reason for Christmas
Monday, November 24, 2025 1:39 PM
Key Thought:
Christmas didn't happen in a vacuum. The birth of Jesus
is a major event in a much larger story.
Why Christmas?
John 1:9–13
9 The true light that gives light to everyone was coming
into the world.
True light - the source of all light; Jesus, active agent
in creation
Gives light to everyone - the object or recipient of
God's light is humanity
Coming into the world - the incarnation / birth of
Jesus; lit. to move to, travel to, approach
10 He was in the world, and though the world was made
through him, the world did not recognize him.
In the world - God himself stepped into His own
creation
Made through Him - Jesus is the active agent of
Christmas 2025 Page 33

Made through Him - Jesus is the active agent of
creation
Did not recognize - /yee-KNOW-skoh/, to know, to
grasp
11 He came to that which was his own, but his own did
not receive him.
Was his own - Jesus came to His own people, Israel
Did not receive him - as the Messiah King he is
12 Yet to all who did receive him, to those who believed
in his name, he gave the right to become children of
God—
Yet - similar to "but" it's an injunction that changes
direction
To all - not some, not if, but TO ALL
Did receive him - as the Messiah King
Believe in his name - transfer of trust to Jesus
He gave - this is a free gift of God
Christmas 2025 Page 34

Children of God - possessing a familial relationship
with God
13 children born not of natural descent, nor of human
decision or a husband’s will, but born of God.
Not of natural descent - this new birth isn't biological
Human decision - an exercise of the human choice
Husband's will - men are often proud of producing
male heirs
Born of God - the new father-child relationship with
God is provided and produced by God through Jesus!
The Takeaway:
Jesus was born into the world He created to provide us
with a way to restore our father-child relationship with
Him.
C302.us/xmas
Christmas 2025 Page 35

Daniel Timeline of years
Thursday, December 11, 2025 2:52 PM
F: The Promised Timeline of Years
Daniel 9:25–26
25 “Know and understand this: From the time the word
goes out to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until the
Anointed One, the ruler, comes, there will be seven
‘sevens,’ and sixty-two ‘sevens.’ It will be rebuilt with
streets and a trench, but in times of trouble.
26 After the sixty-two ‘sevens,’ the Anointed One will be
put to death and will have nothing. The people of the
ruler who will come will destroy the city and the
sanctuary. The end will come like a flood: War will
continue until the end, and desolations have been
decreed.
From the time the word goes out - a specific decree
is the starting point for the math
The Anointed One comes - the arrival of the Messiah
7 + 62 "sevens" - 69 groups of 7 years = 483 years
A: Artaxerxes decree to Ezra 7:11-16 in 457 BC
+ 483 years = 26AD
B: Artaxerxes decree to Nehemiah 2:1-8 in 444 BC
+ 483 years (360 day years) = AD33
Christmas 2025 Page 36

+ 483 years (360 day years) = AD33
Daniel 9:26
26 After the sixty-two ‘sevens,’ the Anointed One will be
put to death and will have nothing. The people of the
ruler who will come will destroy the city and the
sanctuary. The end will come like a flood: War will
continue until the end, and desolations have been
decreed.
Christmas 2025 Page 37