And so today we will be in the Gospel of Matthew chapter 1. So if you brought your Bibles with you, please turn or tap to Matthew chapter 1. I'd like to read verses 18 to 25, and then we go back through and sort of expound and peel away these verses a little bit. But we'll begin by looking at Matthew chapter 1, verses 18 to 25. So here it is, Matthew 1, 18. This is how the birth of Jesus, the Messiah, came about. It's going to sound really familiar. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be pregnant through the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was faithful to the law and yet did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly. But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet. The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him and took Mary home as his wife, 25. But he did not consummate their marriage until she gave birth to a son, and he gave him the name Jesus. I know it feels a little odd to start with Joseph during Christmas instead of Mary, but I wanted to try to sort of go in order as the New Testament unfolds and Matthew is the first book, so we're going to go with Matthew. Now, before I can expound this passage, we need to delve a little bit into Hebrew marriage customs, because that's the back story or the backbone of what's happening here. So, let me give you the setting. For those of you who are young people, when I'm done with this, you can be very, very thankful that this is not marriage in our culture right now. But it is the way it happened then. So, here we go. Here are Hebrew marriage customs. Number one, two families would come together to negotiate a suitable match for their children. So, young people, you are not choosing who you marry. Your mom and your dad are making a relationship with another mom and a dad, and they are choosing who you marry. Okay? After the two families negotiate a proper settlement, the groom's family will pay what is called the mohar or the bride price for the privilege of marrying the daughter. So, Jerry, since you're looking really good today, you and Sophia are going to be picked on for just a quick minute. So, when the time, see, Jerry thinks it's great and Sophia's now bright red. So, when the time comes for a young man to want to win Sophia's hand from Jerry, he's going to negotiate with Jerry. Why? Because see, in this day and age, families also ran businesses. Whether you were a baker or you were a shepherd or you were a farmer, right? You run a business. And if you lose your only daughter, you're losing a very key component of your family's livelihood. And that key component is a financial loss. Kim, right? Right? Rachel moved away. She's not working at the bakery anymore. You just lost your mini-me. Right? How much is that mini-me worth? Hopefully, a lot. So, the groom's family, the groom's father usually, sometimes the groom's in on it, they would go to Jerry and they would say, listen, I would like to my son to have the privilege of marrying your daughter. And in order to do that, I am willing to compensate you this much. And I'm not going to comment on how much Sophia's worth to Jerry because I don't think I have a checkbook that's that big. But you make an offering and at that point, a deal is struck. And at this point, when the mohar or the bride price is paid to the father of the groom, the bride and groom exchange vows right then and there in this ceremony. However, they don't leave together. And here's where Hebrew marriage custom is different from our culture today. I would say that in our culture today, we still do have a symbol or a vestige of the mohar. And that is when I wanted the privilege of asking my wife to marry me, what did I have to bring? An engagement ring. Right? Symbol of her worth and value to joining my family. The difference is, Melanie got to keep the ring. I didn't have to give it to my father-in-law. So, after the bride and groom exchange vows, the payment is made, vows are exchanged, the bride continues to live at home with her family for another year. The groom goes back to his family and builds a house for his bride and he to live in. Now, generally, if you're just an average wealth family, you will build an extension off of your father's property and you will build. If you're a very wealthy person, your parents may have already purchased land and you still have to build the dwelling on that land. There are two reasons for this. Number one, it is because when the marriage is finalized, the bride will leave her father and mother, right? Just like Genesis says, and a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave only unto his wife. The only reason I love that in the King James is you can't spell cleave without leave. And you got to have that separation from the family of origin if you're going to have the priority of family of marriage. So, the groom goes home for a whole year and he builds a house. The other reason that we do this is to prove that the bride is not already pregnant at the time the vows are exchanged, right? Since we know it takes a certain amount of months for a woman to grow a baby, if you exchange vows and then you're separated for a whole year, there's no way the baby that woman has is her husband's. It's a proof of legitimacy and of integrity. It's also a responsibility on the groom's part to go build this house that you're going to move my daughter to. So, after being apart for a whole year, then the groom along with his friends leaves a processional through the city, and this is where the parable of the ten virgins in the lamps and keeping your lamps ready, because the young lady knows it's been about a year, but she doesn't actually know on what night her husband is going to come and retrieve her and bring her back to their new home. So, she just has to sort of be ready at the end of this year. And at that point when the groom retrieves his bride and he takes her to their new dwelling, that's where the real party takes place. That's the wedding celebration. That's the feast. We also have a common message of this and that's why it's the father who pays for the celebration, right? Now, I could go into the fact that what I just described there sounds an awful lot like the gospel, right? So, who is the bride of Jesus? The church, right? So, the groom comes down, pays the price, goes away. What did he say? I go to prepare a place for you. Then the groom comes back, he restored to the bride, then we have the wedding feast. That's pretty much Revelation. So, we'll get back to Revelation. But the reason I want you to understand that there are vows after the mohar is paid and that there's a year-long waiting period is because it is in that year-long waiting period that Mary ends up pregnant. And if you didn't understand the cultural context of everything that's going around it, you might not understand all of the tension that is in the text for today. So, let's go back and look at verse 18. This is how the birth of Jesus the Messiah came about. Stop. Notice Matthew opens up front where he says, Matthew opens up front with who Jesus is. We're not discovering who Jesus is through the gospel. He is explaining who Jesus is up front and then describing who he is. He is, this is the birth of Jesus the Messiah. What does the word Messiah mean? It literally means the anointed one or God's chosen one. So, this is how the birth of Jesus, the anointed one of God, that's what Messiah means, came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph. That means Joseph's family and Mary's family had already had the confab, the mohar or the bride price had already been paid to Mary's father, vows have been exchanged, and at this point, they are considered legally husband and wife, but they're not living together yet. They are legally considered husband and wife. If you wanted to end a relationship at this point, you would owe Mary's family a public certificate of divorce. That's the power of the engagement piece at this time. They are literally considered married and Matthew wants to make it very clear that even though they are married, they had not come together yet and still she was found pregnant. Okay, so I don't really think I need to over explain that one, right? Everybody who's old enough to know what I'm saying knows what I'm saying, right? You know what I'm putting down. Alright, so here's why I think this is important and the apologist in me can't let this go. There is a common argument leveled against the Bible that the only reason the Bible believes in miracles is it's the pre-scientific age where people were superstitious and they were silly and they just didn't know any better. That's not how that verse reads to me, right? So let's just look at verse 18, the very last part of that sentence fragment. But before they came together, she was found to be pregnant. Doesn't that sound an awful lot like a miracle? Doesn't that sound an awful lot like Matthew understands how babies get made? So the idea that we should dispel or dissuade the idea of the virgin birth, well it was just a pre-scientific era and they didn't know any better and that's not how that verse reads. That verse reads like Matthew knows exactly how babies got made and they haven't done what it takes to make babies and so therefore she shouldn't be pregnant. That's what that verse reads. So this idea that we can just dissuade or dispel miracles because of some... You know what it really is? It's called chronocentrism, which means we look at the text of the Bible through the knowledge of our time period instead of looking at it in their time period. Because we have science, because we have wonderful medical technology that helps us get healthier and stay healthier because we have all of that and they didn't in the first century. They're backwoods, barefoot and stupid and we're super smart. But that's not the way this story plays out. And the text clearly points out that Matthew knows what it takes to make a baby and that thing hasn't happened yet. Also, theologically, I do want to point out that this doesn't describe virgin birth, it describes virgin conception and the reason that that is important is because Jesus is born fully God and fully man and God as God, Jesus as God retains the authority to judge and forgive sin but Jesus as a human is qualified to be the representative and substitutionary sacrifice. So there's a lot of theology built up in this story if we give it up, just like giving up the garden. If we give it up, we give up the gospel. We can't do that. I think I've well pointed out why a miracle in the first century is clear because the text says it and it clearly says that as a virgin, meaning one who has not been with her husband yet, so that's how we get fully God, fully man and then Jesus is able to be that full representation. So you've got a lot of things to think about and then you've got to be able to be that full representation. So you've got a lot of theology, you've got a lot of apologetics in verse 18. Then verse 19. Now we get the description of who Joseph is because Joseph, her husband was faithful to the law and yet did not want to expose her to public disgrace he had in mind to divorce her quietly. I think I just got to be honest, I feel like Joseph always gets a bad rap at Christmas. Right? I am not at all trying to lessen the stress that Mary would have gone through. But Joseph here is a faithful and righteous person. If we look in the two lineages of Mary and Joseph from Matthew and also in Luke, what we see is both Mary and Joseph are from the line of David. They are both in that Davidic line. And Joseph is a righteous man. He lives righteously, he wants to marry a righteous woman. And every, I mean let's just be honest. How many people when you're unwed pregnant daughter comes home the, okay so there was this angel story is the first thing you jump to. Like I feel for Joseph in this story because what Mary is saying does not make sense to the common mind. It just doesn't. It just doesn't. What Mary is saying is miraculous and the only reason you can recognize something as a miracle is it sets apart from the backdrop of what's normal. If it was normal we would call it normal. The reason we call it a miracle is it's different than what's normal. So Joseph is a righteous man. He has found this righteous young woman that he wants to make his wife, he wants to start a righteous family and raise righteous kids. They go, they pay the price. I do not know what Joseph paid for Mary. The Bible doesn't say. The Bible doesn't say what the price was paid but all of that price is now a loss. And he's broken hearted because the young woman, so if he's a righteous man the young woman that he has waited for in the carnal sense to be his wife has not waited for him. So there's a legal harm that is done to Joseph's family because now if they go through the divorce, I mean I could go over to Jerry and say, yo you need to give me my money back. Why? Because I paid for something that you clearly had already given away to somebody else. So there's a financial aspect to it and then there's a broken heartedness. His wife cheated on him and it is his wife culturally at this point. And that's a deep, deep, deep wound. And yet, in the midst of all of this broken heartedness Joseph loves Mary. And look at what it says here in verse 19. He did not want to expose her to public disgrace. In the midst of heartache. In the midst of brokenness. He cares enough for her to protect her. Now, those of you who really like your Old Testament notes, write down Deuteronomy chapter 22 verses 23 and 24. In all of the pain of what Joseph had perceived as betrayal, the punishment according to Deuteronomy 22, 23, and 24 is death. And if Joseph is a righteous man who lives by the law, he would have been righteous should he chose to impose that sentence. Now, we're in the first century and Jews don't have the authority to kill, so he could have taken that into account. But notice the scripture just says he did not want to expose her to public disgrace. He loved her enough that in the midst of looking at her and seeing the evidence of what he interprets as she cheated. She couldn't wait the one year while I was going and building our dream house together she was sleeping around with somebody else. There's a massive broken heartedness and yet in the midst of it he chooses to divorce her quietly. He's still not going to go through with the marriage. But he's going to do it in such a way that Mary is not brought to public disgrace or harm. Then in verse 20, but after he considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. I feel like when we read verse 20, we don't key in on take Mary home as your wife. What that actually means. So let me, let's just roll it out. And I'm not going to use anybody in the room because I don't need to make anybody feel uncomfortable. So there's a random set of young people who are engaged. Right? John and Jane. John and Jane Doe. Random set of young people who are engaged. And in the middle of their engagement, Jane shows up pregnant. Who's the first person you assume is the father of the child? Right. So when Joseph brings her home and doesn't wait the full year long period, what is the culture around Joseph going to assume about the baby? 100%. So here you have a righteous man who's lived his whole life trying to be righteous to the law. And what the angel is saying is don't be afraid to take her home. Because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. You know what the angel is saying? Joseph, your character is going to take this hit. And it's worth it. Because of what God's about to do. Don't be afraid of what culture will say to you. Don't be afraid if culture doesn't get it. Don't be afraid of what the haters and the naysayers because they don't know what you know. They don't know the truth of what God is doing. So let them, you know, you got to know the gossip at the well, and the chatter in the marketplace. Joseph's righteous character went all the way into the tank when he brought Mary home. Because by taking her home and not waiting the full year to show everyone the righteousness of their new marriage, he's telling his entire town, yeah, that baby's totally mine. Even though it wasn't. And this is I think a personal struggle for Joseph that never gets born out when we talk about Christmas. We talk about Mary and the struggle of being an unwed pregnant teenager in a hyper religious culture. Totally true. And I don't want to take anything away from Mary. That's why I put Joseph on his own week so he could just talk about Joseph. Joseph has to assume the responsibility for sleeping with his wife before he was supposed to. And all of culture is going to know it. His entire town is going to know it. And again, if you were to listen, if your daughter shows up pregnant and unmarried, you go, well there was this angel. How do you, what do you think Joseph's going to do? He's going to go home to his dad who just paid all the money for his new bride and say, okay dad, it's not what it looks like. So there was this angel. No one's going to believe him either. The only person in the entire Christmas story who is going to believe that an angel spoke to Joseph is who? Yes. And what do you think that conversation was like? Right? The very first time, because when we get to Luke and we see Luke's message, the angel's message to Mary and Luke precedes the angel's message to Joseph and Matthew. Because at this point, she's already pregnant. In Luke, we find out that she's going to be pregnant. So Mary already knows. Mary's already spoken to Joseph. She's already given him the, so there was this angel speech which he did not buy, he did not believe, and he gets ready to divorce her. And then he has to go back and he goes, hey Mary, this is going to sound so weird. But okay, so there is this angel and I just had this dream. And she's just going to be standing there. Yeah. Tell me again about your angel story, Joe. Maybe now you're ready to believe me. There's so much humanity in the Christmas story. There's so much struggle and stress and heartache that we just kind of gloss over because we're so used to it looking like a nativity set on our mantle and not human beings in a struggle between culture and godliness. Joseph had to do what God directed and had to take the hit on his reputation. I mean, what was Joseph like going home and explaining it to his mama? Mama, you just got to trust me, there was this angel. I mean, the amount of sacrifice that Joseph gives is not equal to the sacrifice that Mary gives. Please, please don't misunderstand that. My wife has had two children and I guarantee you, my participation in having children is nothing in compared to my wife's participation in having children. Been there the whole time. That doesn't mean that Joseph didn't have to overcome a struggle to obey what God wanted him to do in order to bring this about. So the angel in 20 says, what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. What is the angel really saying? Joe, she didn't cheat. And you did. Ultimately, I wonder if the angel was like, yeah, told you so. You didn't believe her when she said it. That's why I got to be here. God's got to send a whole other one. Then you get to verse 21. The angel's not done describing what God's about to do. She will give birth to a son and you are to give him the name Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. That's got to ring true for a righteous man. For a man who lived his life by the law. Who believed in righteousness. Who wanted to see the people of Israel be righteous people. To know that you're going to be the stepfather to the one who's going to bring about salvation for your people. Now, nowhere in here do we get that he's born fully God, fully man. There's a lot of Christian theology and doctrine that's built up over time. But what's not at all contestable is verse 21. Joseph knew at whatever point we are in Mary's pregnancy. And notice it doesn't say. It just says what is conceived in her. So we know at some point during the pregnancy period it happens after the angel speaks to Mary which is recorded in Luke because that's the beginning of her conception of pregnancy. So it's sometime in this nine month period of time and it's before the baby is born. And it's before the census in which they have to travel to Bethlehem and so we can maybe calculate the distance from Nazareth to Bethlehem and figure out where that is. Right? And Joseph is told now, this baby that's going to be born, that God himself is working to bring about salvation. That he will save his people from their sins. And then 22, now we're out of the angel's mouth and now we're back into Matthew, the narrator who's narrating the story. All of this, meaning Joseph, the angel, the message, the intention, the purpose, all of this took place to fulfill that which the Lord had said through the prophet. The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son and they will call him Immanuel, which means God with us. Now that verse comes from the book of Isaiah, chapter seven, verse 14. Isaiah is an Old Testament prophet. Interestingly, in theological circles, Isaiah is often called the fifth gospel because outside of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, no other book in the Bible speaks more of Jesus than Isaiah. But here's what's interesting. Jesus' birth fulfills two prophecies from Isaiah. It's Isaiah 7, 14 and then chapter 8, verses 8 and 10. Both of those prophecies were written 700 years before the birth of Christ. Yeah, we kind of skipped that when he just, he's randomly referencing a Jewish scripture and we're like, oh yeah, that comes from the Old Testament. Yeah, I think that was Isaiah. No, Isaiah wrote that down 700 years before the events that Matthew is telling us take place. Side note, if you're interested in when Jesus was born, all of my studying has led me to the conclusion that Jesus was born right at about the end of five or the beginning of four BC. So the reason we have BC or we used to have BC and AD and now it's BC, BCE and CE I think. Anyways, way back in church history, once Christianity became the ruling, the ruling religion in the Roman Empire, they went back and said, hey, let's figure out when Jesus was born and they were just off a little bit in the math. Also remember there's no year zero, right? So it's not like a, it's not like a number line. You know, you have 3 BC, 2 BC, 1 BC, you don't have a zero BC. You go from 1 BC to 1 AD. Also, AD does not mean after death. Anybody know what it means? Anno Domini, somebody said it, meaning in the year of our Lord. So they were off by a little bit when they did the math. Jesus was likely born at about 4 BC and that takes place 700 years before that is when Isaiah gives this prophecy, God with us. Isaiah knew 700 years ago that the child who would be born to the virgin who would conceive would be God. Isaiah knew that 700 years ago but that detail Matthew includes for us. Then in 24 when Joseph woke up, the entire conversation between Joseph and the angel takes place in a dream that's also different from the Luke conversation between the angel and Mary where the angel appears to Mary and he has to say, whoa, what's the first thing an angel always has to say when it shows up to a human? Whoa, don't be afraid. Whoa, calm down, it's all good. Very first thing an angel always has to say when it shows up, whoa, don't be afraid. Joseph is speaking to the angel all in a dream or a vision which in a first century Jewish worldview is a completely acceptable form of God speaking to humans. I mean we have other people in the Old Testament who had dreams and who God worked through those dreams. One of them was named Joseph. Another one was Daniel. So being spoken to and get revelation from God in the midst of dreams is completely normal thing for a first century Jewish religious perspective. It's not out of the ordinary. I would submit to you that things like that still happen today. Those of you who have heard my story of how I came to be a catalyst. I'm driving here to get ready for the interview, unsure of whether this is what God wants my family to do. And my daughter who did not know why I was out of town woke up and had a dream that said God is moving our family to another church and went and told my wife and then they called me and that gave me a wonderful thing to say at the very beginning of the interview process. So I'm a firm believer that God can still do that. But caution, that doesn't mean every dream you have is from God. Sometimes it's just the pepperoni pizza or the Kung Pao chicken just coming back at you. So 24, when Joseph woke up immediately he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him and he took Mary home as his wife. And from then on the conversation is over. Nobody in their town is now questioning who the baby daddy is. Right? This is a giant who the baby daddy question. No one is questioning it anymore because when Joseph brings Mary home he is admitting to the culture around him yeah, I just didn't feel like waiting. She's too pretty. She's my wife. I did this. And it would have been a major faux pas against their ancient near eastern culture. So Joseph breaks the cultural traditions. He doesn't wait the rest of the year. He immediately brings her home. Why? Because not only do I know that my wife is pregnant, my wife is pregnant and God is doing something new, I must care for her. Joseph assumes early the responsibility to care and provide for Mary as Mary is continuing to grow the Christ child within her womb. And I don't know how many of you have like gossipy families. This is not the moment to elbow anybody or raise your hand. Right? Don't do that. It's bad. Bad. Some of you are still thinking it. Okay? So don't do it yet. Right? Don't just do the stretch, reach and poke church thing. Don't do that. But I often see somebody did it. I often wonder scripture only gives us portraits of these human beings that God works in and through as the pages unfold. You know, we don't have an exhaustive book on just the life of Joseph both before and after. By the time Jesus is 12, that's the last time we see Joseph recorded in scripture. And by the time Jesus starts his ministry, Mary is single and she's alone. Joseph's never mentioned. It's assumed that Joseph the carpenter must have passed away sometime after Jesus' 12th birthday because he's not featured in the rest of the gospels. But I wonder what it was like on that first week. Even those first couple of nights when he went and got Mary. I don't even know if all the construction was done yet. You know, we don't really know how far into the one year period it was. And he brings her home and he's still trying to put everything together. He's still trying to, you know, maybe the bedroom's finished but the window dressings aren't right, you know. And so he brings his wife into this almost done but not quite ready yet home. And in a really beautiful way, that's kind of what the rest of culture was like. They're kind of almost ready but not quite ready yet for what God was going to do through this couple that they're all looking, they're looking down their noses at. They're looking down their noses because you guys couldn't keep it together for, what, nine more months? Or some people may still be gossiping that Mary was unfaithful and just Joseph loved her enough to keep the baby. You know, by the time the baby was born, somebody might be like, Joseph, that doesn't look like you. It looks like, it looks like you're, Joseph, that looks like your mailman, bro. I'm sure the pot shots, the cultural jokes, the religious judgment, it was there. We pass it over sometimes because we're the religious people. So in church, I'm not supposed to point out that religious people judge. But we do. Let's just be honest, we do. And it's wrong and it's mean. And so Joseph brings her home, he assumes all the responsibility for the baby. Even though we know because of scripture, Joseph and Mary both know it's not his. The rest of culture assumes it's his. And then in 25, but he did not consummate their marriage until she gave birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus. The final thing that Joseph gives up in the Christmas story is the right to be intimate with his wife. That's another willing sacrifice that Joseph makes. Because he wants to be a part of what God is doing. So not only did he have to assume all the cultural weight of not being able to wait, he had to take the hit to his righteousness. He then, here's what's funny, he had to take the hit to his righteousness like he couldn't wait to sleep with his wife and then still not be able to sleep with his wife. Like dude, if you're going to take the hit, at least go do what you already paid the penalties for. And he says, no, I'm not going to do that. I'm going to wait to see what God does before I get the privilege of being able to be with my wife that everyone else has already assumed we've done. That's why I think I think Joseph gets a little bit of the short end of the stick. Because when it comes to the Mary story, we're going to accentuate that Joseph wanted to throw her away. Joseph wanted to give her a divorce. Well, he did, but he also wanted to protect her and he also wanted to care for her and he also took charge of her care and responsibility. You know what else is not mentioned in the story? What Mary's daddy said. It's not in there. Anywhere. Why? Because Scripture isn't exhaustive history, it's religious history. It's salvific history. Scripture tells us what we need to know about the story of God's salvation, not what we need to know about every jot and tittle of what was going on. If Mary had a TikTok, you could go back and watch it. But she didn't. So let me bring this in for a landing. Here's the takeaway I think from Joseph's part of our Christmas story. Joseph chose to obey God in the midst of cultural pressure and personal difficulty. We too must follow and obey the Lord even if it is uncomfortable in the short term. I think sometimes it's the length of time we look at that makes a difference on how hard a trial is. If you're living life through the lens of eternity, then what happens next week, as difficult as it may be, is not as difficult as what happens next life. When we live life in the lens of eternity. And I think that's really what Joseph did here. Maybe eternity is a bad term since he might not understand all that we understand about Jesus and salvation. But let's say, live life through the lens of righteousness. Joseph did what was right regardless of what it cost him. And he had direct revelation from God. This wasn't a pepperoni pizza or bad hummus moment. This is an angel shows up in his dream, tells him what to do. Now here's what's cool. Joseph could have woken up and still been disobedient. As a fully moral creature, right? Humans are moral creatures. We have free will. We are capable of obeying or disobeying. And in the midst of his heartache, in the midst of his confusion, and I sort of got to be honest ladies, in the midst of a little bit of humility because eventually he has to go tell Mary all this stuff. And then Mary's got to cross her arms and do the foot the foot and she can do all that and the whole deal. In the midst of all of that, Joseph chooses obedience over pressure. And I think that's a great lesson for us to walk away with during Christmas. And you know what's interesting? Moving to here instead of living in the backwoods of Virginia where we used to live, super, super rural, super, super sticks. I was walking through a forget where it was, and at this time of year, like, Merry Christmas just rolls off my tongue, like, all the time. I'm walking in door, hi, Merry Christmas. I'm walking out the door, hi, Merry Christmas. Checking out at the grocery store, hi, Merry Christmas. And then it dawned on me, not everybody here celebrates Christmas. See, in rural Virginia, everyone in Amama celebrates Christmas, whether they're Christian or not. Because my grandmama's grandmama put a pew in at the Second Baptist Methodist Church of whatever, and so everybody has a Christmas tree. My neighbor to the left is Muslim. My neighbor to the right is a lapsed Catholic. My neighbor across the street is kind of a secular pagan, not really sure. On my block, just where I personally live, everyone has Christmas decorations up. But not everybody worships Jesus at Christmas. And I think that's the difference, right? We have to separate the cultural aspects of Christmas from the Christ aspects of Christmas. And those of you who ever get my emails or text messages, I use the abbreviation Xmas all the time. It's not meant to be like inflammatory, I don't love Jesus. X is the first letter of Jesus' name in Greek, and writing one letter is faster than writing five, and so I do it all the time. Not trying to extract Jesus from Christmas. My question is, as we begin the Christmas season together, how obedient are you to righteousness during the Christmas season? I get the fact that we're gonna have trees, and I get the fact that we're gonna have presents, and some of us, we hang stockings on the fireplace, and we do all the traditions. But how do we fit the obedience, the righteousness, that God has done something new here, let's not forget it. Let's not just celebrate Santa Claus and Jack Frost, but remember that this moment of incarnation was a miracle in and of itself to bring about a greater miracle, which was that God loved me while I was yet a sinner. That's the obedience within righteousness that I think we can take away from the Joseph story.