Well, good morning. Merry Christmas and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here at Catalyst Community Church. For all of you who are sitting here in our sanctuary and those of you who are joining us online, thank you for being a part of our online family. We are going to be continuing our study through Christmas. I told you last week, I probably said it also last year because I repeat myself a lot, but I told you last week, Christmas is often a challenging time to be a pastor who preaches every Sunday because there's many of the Christmas passages that you probably already read and several that you know. So the challenge is to try to bring you the Christmas story in a manner or in a way or at an angle that perhaps you haven't seen before. So let me give you the key thought that sort of holds all of these messages together. And here it is. Christmas didn't happen in a vacuum. The birth of Jesus is a major event in a much larger story. Thank you, ma'am. This time we're just planning ahead. So Christmas didn't happen in a vacuum. Many times when we come to the Christmas story as Christians because our faith rests and is founded on the person of Jesus, we often just jump right into angels started showing up and delivering messages when the reality is the birth of Jesus as the Messiah, the promised Messiah, Savior and King of the Jewish people happens in a much larger context. And so I want to try to explore that context. So when we get to Christmas Eve, we'll sort of have a much wider view and understand how amazingly miraculous the birth of the son of God was when you see the sort of full scope of the expectation. So last week we looked at the expectation of Christmas. We looked at several outstanding promises from the Old Testament that gave witness to what the Savior should be or when the Messiah would come. Today, I want to take a look at what is probably the most skipped over passages in all of scripture. And that is the lineage or the genealogies of Jesus. If you are new to the Bible, Jesus is one of the I would say the primary character of the New Testament. And there are two different genealogies listed. There is a genealogy listed in the Gospel of Matthew and there is a different genealogy listed in the Gospel of Luke. I want to read both of them to you because this morning what we are going to do is we are going to compare and contrast them to see what the real lessons are that can be pulled out. Even though I know we generally skip over these. So let's start in the Gospel of Matthew. So if you have the catalyst app and you want to follow along with us, you can open the catalyst app and you'll notice right there. There's a blue and white box that says sermon notes. If you click on that, it will load my sermon notes for today. That is also where your question button is. So I got did my job right this week and the notes are there. So Casey doesn't have to come in and save the day. Although she already did give me a water. So maybe who are off for Casey anyways. If you want to ask a question, I want you to feel free to ask questions. If you are joining us online, even if you are watching this service after it actually took place, you're watching in real time. I want you to ask your questions. We will answer them at the end of the sermon. Even if you're watching it after the fact, I want you to ask a question because it will come to me in an email and I could still contact you. But I want you to ask you to follow along. There's also a button there. You see the blue speech bubble with the white square next to it. That's if you want to take additional notes, you can take notes. So let's first look at Matthew's genealogy. So if you brought a Bible with you or use the catalyst app, you can just tap the Bible button at the bottom of the app. Let's take a look at Matthew's genealogy. This is Matthew, Chapter one, starting in verse one. This is the genealogy of Jesus, the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac, the father of Jacob, Jacob, the father of Judah and his brothers. Judah, the father of Perez and Zira, whose mother was Tamar. Perez, the father of Hezron, Hezron, the father of Ram. Ram, the father of Aminadab, Aminadab, the father of Nashon. Nashon, the father of Salmon, not the food, the guy. Salmon, the father of Boaz, whose mother was Rahab. Boaz, the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth. Obed, the father of Jesse and Jesse, the father of King David. David, the father of Solomon, whose mother had been Uriah's wife. Solomon, the father of Rehoboam, Rehoboam, the father of Abijah. Abijah, the father of Asa, Asa, the father of Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat, the father of Jehoram. Jehoram, the father of Uzziah. Uzziah, the father of Jotham. Jotham, the father of Ahaz. Ahaz, the father of Hezekiah. Hezekiah, the father of Manasseh. Manasseh, the father of Amin. Amin, the father of Josiah. And Josiah, the father of Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the exile to Babylon. After the exile to Babylon, Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel. Shealtiel, the father of Zerubbabel. Zerubbabel, this just rolls off the tongue. The father of Abaihood. Abaihood, the father of Eliakim. Eliakim, the father of Azor. Azor, the father of Zadok. Zadok, the father of Achim. Achim, the father of Elihood. Elihood, the father of Eleazar. Eleazar, the father of Mathan. Mokhtan, the father of Jacob. math in the father of Jacob and Jacob the father of Joseph the husband of Mary and Mary was the mother of Jesus who is called the Messiah and then Matthew sums it up here in 17 Thus there were 14 generations in all from Abraham to David 14 from David to the exile in Babylon and 14 from the exile to the Messiah So that is Matthew's Version of the genealogy of Jesus now I need to warn you the genealogies are different in Matthew and in Luke that's part of what this sermon will be about is how are we to interpret the different genealogies and So do me a favor and turn with me to the gospel of Luke. We're gonna look specifically at chapter 3 Now I realize these are really dry. I realize these are like just you don't have to you don't have to tell on yourself You don't want to but how many people when you're reading your Bibles you just blink scan the section, right? Let's just be honest many of us do so the challenge of a Sunday morning Bible communicator is How can I make this more interesting? So since I'm ADHD and way over the top Let's try something a little different Melanie when you're ready Here's the genealogy of Jesus from Luke chapter 3 ready Oh Son of Heli son of math that son of Levi son of Melchai son of Jani I son of Joseph son of Mathias son of Amos son of Nehu son of Esla Son of Nagai son of Mayap son of Mathias son of Samin son of Josach Son of Jodah son of Jonan Risa son of Zerubbabel G-al-P-ol Son of Neirai son of Melchai son of Adai son of Kassam son of El-Madam son of Ert Son of Joshua son of Eliezer Son of Joram son of math that son of Levi son of Simeon son of Judah son of Joseph son of Jonim And Elkim and Mila, Mina, Metapha the son of Nathan Son of David son of Jesse son of Ovid son of a Boaz son of a Salman Son of Anishan the son of Aminidab son of Ran son of Hezmin the son of Perez Son of Judah the son of Jacob the son of Isaac the son of Abraham and Tira Son of Nehor son of a Seiruk son of a Ryupelik, Eber, Gila Son of Canaan son of Arfaxad son of Shem son of Noah son of Lamech Son of Mathuzelah son of Enoch and Jared Mahal-el-ol The son of Kenan the son of Enosh the son of Seth the son of Adam the son of God If you've never heard and so I want to say I don't believe that I just did a rap I did a rhythmic reading of scripture a Little bit of ADHD for you this morning Because listen, I know like you when I'm reading the Bible for myself I just skip over these large blocks of names because they are very repetitive Because they are kind of dry. They include a lot of names I mean, I don't know about you but Zerubbubble doesn't just roll off the tongue, right? I don't think that's on anybody's short list for baby names if it is, please see me after service for prayer And I do that because I don't want us to miss what I think is one of the most miraculous things about the birth of Jesus But to discover it we need to dig a little bit and we need to go into these genealogies and see what I think might be It might be one of the most overlooked things of Christmas I'll say it that way what I want to share with you today is something that I think most people don't know And may not have heard and I just think it's incredibly miraculous And so that was my way of waking everybody up and getting their attention So first let's just talk about the difference between the books. Okay, I've illustrated that Matthew and Luke Do not share the same genealogy. I will get to the explanation of that But before I get there let's just let's just have a couple basic things first off the authors of Matthew and Luke are different Pop quiz who wrote the gospel of Matthew? Gold star even Jim could have got that one, right? All right, who wrote the gospel of Luke? Also gold star that's kind of obvious, right? But now let's go one deeper. What do we know about these men? Well Matthew is one of the original 12 disciples of the gospel of Luke 12 disciples of Jesus His name is also anybody know starts with an L Levi I heard it his name is Levi. What was Matthew slash Levi's job before he became a follower of Jesus He was a tax collector, right? He was one of the most hated Jews because he took Jewish money and gave it to Romans and yet Jesus said no You're gonna you're gonna follow me. That's Matthew. Luke is a completely different dude the theological term different dude Luke in my opinion is most likely a gentile That means he's the only if i'm right. He's the only known gentile author of scripture Unlike Matthew who was a tax collector. Luke had a completely different day job. He's also a historian, but what's his primary job? He's a doctor. He's a physician. He's an educated Gentile man, so we have a hated Jewish tax collector and an educated Gentile author they're writing completely different books The audiences are also completely different Matthew as a Jewish tax collector and one of the original disciples of Jesus is writing to a primarily Jewish audience Now you're going to say pastor. How do you know that if you read the gospel of Matthew? In comparison to mark luke and john There are more Jewish phrases and Jewish idioms that go unexplained Right. So like in luke when you read Um, uh like the sabbath and then he defines the sabbath the day of rest for the jews Well, why does he do that? Because his audience doesn't know what a sabbath is when Matthew just starts referring to Jewish holidays with no explanation That tells you Matthew understood that his audience understood what he was going to say For instance if I were traveling abroad everyone with his my friends in Africa and I talked about setting off fireworks on the 4th of july They would ask me why? Why does no one in this room think that's weird? Because we're american part of our culture to blow stuff up on the 4th of july like hooray apple five french five bullets beer merica We blow stuff up on the 4th of july, but there's a 4th of july in uganda, but they don't celebrate the same way we do Same thing you can see when you compare the text of Matthew and luke Matthew is writing to a Jewish audience He's showing that jesus is the promised messiah of the old testament even look at the way he began his genealogy He said jesus the promised messiah son of david son of abraham starting with two huge figures in jewish culture Wouldn't have mattered as much to gentile Now I don't believe that luke is writing to a solely Gentile audience. I don't I don't buy that I think he's writing to the wider audience of jews and gentiles Those of you like your bible study the diaspora or the diaspora the jews who were scattered throughout the mediterranean He's writing to them as well as Gentiles and luke focuses more on jesus being the son of god the purpose as I mentioned Matthew is writing To show that jesus is the promised messiah the davidic heir also the new moses giving a new law And luke is writing to show that jesus is the son of god Now before I get into the differences, I want to show you the similarity There are one two three things that are the same In both genealogies these are not on the screen, but here's here's if you're taking notes watch The miraculous virgin birth is mentioned in both matthew and in luke in matthew. It's 118 and luke. It's 127 The name of jesus's earthly parents are mentioned in both books Joseph and mary are jesus's earthly parents. That's matthew 118 and luke 127 The fact that jesus is descended from abraham and david is mentioned in both Matthew 1 uh verses 2 and 6 and in luke 3 verses 31 and 33 Just hear that the miraculous virgin birth in both books Joseph and mary being the earthly parents of jesus in both books Jesus descended from abraham and david in both books Just just put a pin in that somewhere and hold on to it. Here's the other thing I need to understand Neither author is just listing data for data's purposes Today a lot of times when we think of genealogies we think of genetic genealogies, right we think of historiographic or or charted as a data set but that's not the way ancient biographers hold story Ancient biographers would give you the genealogy or the heritage of a person But that genealogy or that heritage is part of the narrative of who they are And that's why I need you to that the next thing I need you to see here is Here's the next set of differences Just look at where they are in the book Matthew places his genealogy of jesus starting in chapter one verse one The very first thing you get to in matthew's gospel he places it first Whereas where does luke place his not until chapter three? Why is that because the genealogies are not just Historical data about jesus. They are part of the narrative of who jesus is and what the author is presenting about who jesus is Matthew places his first because his opening sentence says it all this is jesus The promised messiah the son of david period end of story. This is who he is Now, let me show you why right so matthew opens with a very clear statement Jesus is the promised messiah the son of david the descendant of abraham and david boom However luke doesn't do this if you look in your bible luke places the genealogy of jesus between two major events The genealogy of jesus is placed between Jesus's baptism and Jesus's temptation in the wilderness Don't miss this. This is not an accident. It's not like john. It's not like luke was writing his scroll and he was like Oh, man. Okay. Hang on pause genealogy back to the story. No luke places his genealogy Exactly in the right place to give exactly the right message. Why is this because if you read luke and you read starting in the baptism What is the famous line for those of you who have read the story of jesus's baptism? Jesus is standing in the jordan river. He's being baptized by who? John the baptist right john the baptist baptizes what was likely his either cousin or cousin first removed jesus The holy spirit descends from heaven like a dove And then god the father speaks from heaven at the baptism of jesus. What does god the father say? This is my Son in whom I am Well pleased right? That's the classic line if you've not read the story. It's super beautiful god the father speaks god the spirit descends God the son is in the river. It's a beautiful example of the trinity. It's also why The here modalism. Thank you. Good job melanie Yeah, it's also why modalism can't be true because you have three members of the trinity in different places all at the same time Interacting with one another so it's not like it's just one god in three masks But he says this is my son Then Right on the heels of that. This is my son luke presents his gospel and notice when I did the gospel of luke luke starts with joseph and tracks back to God himself so right after a scene where god says this is my son Luke says now i'ma show you and he tracks the genealogy of jesus not just back to abraham See matthew starts at abraham comes through david and gets to mary, okay? That's good that illustrates for matthew's purpose We're talking about a descendant of abraham descendant of david, but luke says no i'm not going all the way back to abraham I'm going all the way back to god why because where the first son of god failed who's the first son of god? Adam the first human son of god is adam where the first son of god failed. What did he fail at? Being tempted by the enemy right in the garden of eden the devil shows up In the form of a serpent and he tempts adam and eve and it was ultimately adam's failure not eve's because adam had the right to correct The serpent in that moment because of the first adam's failure corruption enters the world I'm going to show you that jesus is the son of god i'm going to establish his genealogy going all the way back and then what the very next thing jesus does He goes in the wilderness and he faces off to the enemy and where the first adam failed the second adam succeeds That's the narrative of the first adam And that's why his genealogy is the way it is because it crafts into jesus is yes he is the descendant of abraham and david luke gives you that but he's not just that He's not just human jesus is the son of god who will succeed in defeating remember we looked at genesis 315 the proto-evangelum First mention of jesus and all of the bible eve was promised a son who would crush the head of the serpent Luke is laying into that theme and showing you this is the son of god god said it from heaven this is the son of god the genealogy shows it to you Here's the son of god defeating the enemy and that's all before the ministry gets started That's why we seeing these differences are super important a couple other differences i already said this matthew runs from abraham to jesus and he's the son of god Matthew includes women and brothers in his narrative did you notice that Matthew's the one that was the father of the father of the father of whose mother was the father of whose mother was matthew includes certain women that's probably a sermon in and of itself Exploring the women who are mentioned in the genealogy of jesus and seeing why they're so important just to give you a one-liner Go back and read the stories they are all women who had a troubled pregnancy that ended in a miraculous good thing I'll just say it that way you go back and look matthew's laying up a really key element here but the women that he includes i mean rayhab was a harlot The story of tamar involves incestuous rape the story of bathsheba who isn't named but yariah's wife we all know that that's basheba that involves adultery and murder and that's the story of tamar The story of tamar involves incestuous rape the story of bathsheba who isn't named but yariah's wife we all know that that's basheba that involves adultery and murder like matthew didn't pick like sheller's Sheller shining examples of godly women he picked moments where god worked through women in lesser circumstance then also matthew's list is condensed and here's the one i want to i want to get into before i get into why what does all this mean When at the very end of matthew's genealogy i read there were 14 generations from here to here from abraham to david 14 from david to the exile and 14 from the exile to the return right or exile to now Matthew has condensed his genealogy if you read and count the numbers of the women that he has killed and the number of women that he has killed and the number of women that he has killed and the number of women that he has killed His genealogy if you read and count the number of names there are way more names in luke's genealogy than matthew and so that leads some to accuse us of saying look your word of god is contradictory your bible is flawed it is false that's not true What that person making that accusation fails to understand is that it is a common first century practice to condense a genealogy to include either a important names and figures and skip over lesser important people so like if we were giving the genealogy of jim and lisa jim's totally getting skipped Right we're going to mention jim's dad and we're going to make sure that we mention lisa's daughters right but jim he's not important to the story so we're just going to skip we're going to condense that's what matthew does and this is not wrong this is not wrong to a first century historical context we have to make sure that we don't commit the sin of chronocentrism It's a really big word what it means is assuming that because we live today we're smarter than people who live then or the way we do things today is automatically better than the way they did things then I don't know about you but the great pyramids are still standing whatever they did to build it was pretty smart so we don't need to just assume that the way we do things today is better matthew has intentionally Condensed and contracted his genealogy he has skipped because remember in hebrew here's what's cool in hebrew there is no word for grandson or son-in-law it's just son there's also no word for grandfather or great grandfather it's just father So when he says the father of the father of the father of he's not lying he's not wrong their word assumes father means any male ancestor of my lineage and son can mean any male inheritor of my lineage so he's not lying but he has condensed it and he even tells us that he's condensed it to a very specific point He said there are fourteen from here to here fourteen from here to here and fourteen from here to here he has condensed his genealogy to a three by fourteen setting now why would he do that here's one thing that you may not know So in the hebrew language letters convert to numbers right so letters also convert to numbers we don't really do this in our language but in their language they did if you were to spell the word david in hebrew how many letters do you need anybody want to take a guess I'll tell you what it's not five three you're totally correct why is it three because they don't use vowels so david in hebrew is literally dvd we skip over the two vowels dvd three letters do you know what the sum of d plus v plus d is in hebrew fourteen Matthew has condensed his entire genealogy to three letters or three sections of fourteen each he has created a three by fourteen genealogy and it just so happens that david is three letters whose sum equals fourteen in their thinking now I'm not saying we need to start converting every hebrew letter into math and applying math that doesn't apply I'm saying I have clear evidence in scripture Matthew edited his genealogy to three sections of fourteen and he told us he did it he admitted that he did it so it's not a conflict with Luke he's not contradictory he's doing something intentionally that was culturally acceptable and historically viable in his day to get us to a three by fourteen genealogy the best explanation that I can give for that three by fourteen intentional condensing is he specifically crafted genesis genealogy to reflect the name david dvd three letters whose sum equal fourteen when you convert it this is not a contradictory statement now I will admit that there are still some other things within the genealogy we have to deal with but if somebody comes to you and says well you can't have two genealogies that's just logically false my children have two genealogical trees my wife has a family tree and I have a family tree and those family trees came together when my wife and I had children so it's not a lie every single human being has two genealogical trees one from your mother and one from your father so we're not contradictory it's not wrong but we're not going to be able to do that Matthew has admitted he intentionally condensed Luke also admitted at the outset of his gospel I have carefully investigated these things so Luke does offer a more exhaustive genealogy so that's a whole bunch of facts and now I got to spin this ago what is all of that mean here is quite possibly the coolest thing I ever learned about Christmas so what does all of this mean number one Matthew and Luke are teaching us something different about Jesus the way they list the genealogy Matthew is showing his first century audience that Jesus is the promised Messiah from the line of Abraham and David who like the new Moses has come to give us the new law on our heart that's Abraham Moses David Jeremiah all wrap up into one beautifully Jewish held gospel that's Matthew Luke however is showing that Jesus is the son of God the new Adam and the Savior of the world that's their purposes but there's a little bit of a hiccup we got to deal with one additional problem let's look at I'm gonna read it first and then I'm gonna explain it because I can't figure out what orders best words can do this way all right Jeremiah chapter twenty two we're gonna go back to Jeremiah because there is a curse that has been leveled against the descendants of David and I need you to see this curse because it helps explain why the genealogies are different Jeremiah chapter twenty two I'm gonna read twenty eight twenty nine and thirty and then I'm gonna explain what you're looking at here we go Jeremiah chapter twenty two starting in verse twenty eight is this man you'll hi akin a despised broken pot and object no one wants why will he and his children be hurled out and cast into a land they do not know oh land oh land hear the word of the Lord this is what the Lord says record this man as if I'll list a man who will not prosper in his lifetime for none of his offspring will prosper none will sit on the throne of David or rule any more in Judah so this is the prophet Jeremiah if you remember Jeremiah ministers at the time of the Babylonian exile Jeremiah lived through Babylon conquering Judah and carrying Daniel and his friends like Shadrach, Meshach, and Bennego they all got carried away into Babylon Jeremiah remained in Judah and was continuing to prophesy here he wrote a letter to them saying hey you know you guys can be here for 70 years so this is Jeremiah and in this specific passage Jeremiah records a curse from God on a man named and his name is actually two different ways it's your hi akin and I'm gonna show to you again in the genealogies but what God says here is because of this king's disobedience I am cursing his lineage no one from this man's line may inherit the throne of David so now we have a problem because the promised Messiah must be from the line of David but cannot be from the line of David after the line of your hi akin because the curse says no one from this line so now we have a problem how can the Messiah be a descendant of David without coming from your hi akin how can we do this let's scroll back you know I'm gonna take a little bit of a trip here where is it please give me from the Matthew section chapter one verse eleven right here no no go down give me verse eleven please that's okay there it is and Josiah the father of Decon I am Jack and I am your hi akin are the same dude it's just the letters are spelled differently when you go into a language and then come back out of the land so Joe's Joe's I am the father of Jack and I am also named your hi akin and his brothers at the time of the exile to Babylon that's when Jeremiah was writing so this dude right here in verse eleven is the guy who was the father of David who is cursed that means if Jesus is the biological descendant of that guy's line Jesus is voided from being the promised Messiah of the Jewish people you see you can't inherit the promise of David in a line that has been cursed to not be allowed to have the throne so now we have a challenge how can we have a savior how can we have a promised Messiah who can be both born from the line of your hi akin but not inherit the curse so thereby be allowed to inherit the throne everybody with me now let's go down now let me show you how we pull this one off this really cool in Luke chapter one verse thirty to thirty three look at this Luke one thirty to thirty three this is the angel speaking to Mary but the angel said to her do not be afraid Mary said to her Mary you have found favor with God you will conceive and give birth to a son and you are to call him Jesus he will be great and will be called the son of the most high the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David and he will reign over Jacob's descendants forever his kingdom will never end okay what did that verse to show you that verse to showed you Mary is a descendant of David so both Mary and Joseph are descendants of David but if you go back and look at their genealogies specifically Luke chapter three verse thirty one says the son of Nathan the son of David and then Matthew chapter one verse six says David the father of Thalmin so when you compare the two genealogies after King David they split and they follow two different tracks they eventually come back together and they go back away again but the reason they split is they go through two different sons of David one by Nathan one by Solomon so how do we have a promised Messiah to be the son of Joseph the carpenter who is the legal heir of Jeconiah of your high can and yet still be able to inherit the throne remember when I told you there are three things that all that both Gospels get right what are they the miraculous conception that's one the names of Jesus's parents and the fact that they're all from the King line of David here's how all this comes together in order for Jesus to be able to inherit the throne of David and be the rightful promised Messiah he must be a biological descendant of David and not a biological descendant of your high can right because I have to inherit the promise and I got dodge the curse so how is it that the son of God can be born in the line of David dodging the curse of your high can the miraculous conception Jesus is not the biological son of Joseph the carpenter he is the biological son of Mary which means he is a son of David born to inherit the throne of his father but because Joseph the carpenter is and I'm gonna use a modern day term stepdad right Joseph the carpenter is not the biological son of Joseph the carpenter he is merely his stepdad which means Joseph the carpenter can be the father of Jesus and Jesus not inherit the curse of your high can because he is not biologically related to Joseph and when you put these two genealogies together and you overlap them you see that you have to have a son of David all the other things we learned already you have to have a descendant of Eve from the line of Abraham from the line of David dodging the line of your high can but still a biological descendant of David if he's going to be the driver king who can inherit the messianic throne and if you didn't compare really carefully these two genealogies and didn't notice the messianic throne and you see that you have to have a son of David the son of David and you see that you have to have a son of David that your high can his name was slightly changed in the New Testament which go back and check with the same dude and what is it that both genealogies get right the miraculous concept this is why the miracle Christmas is so cool hundred and hundred and hundreds of years before Mary was ever born your high can was first by God for his ungodliness none of your descendants will be allowed to rule over Judah ever again and yet we get all the way down to the line of Joseph the carpenter and Joseph the carpenter even though he is a descendant of your high can is raising the son of God the rightful heir to the throne because of the way in which God pulled off the miraculous that's so cool I would have never known there's a curse at Christmas unless you right I mean I could have titled this the Christmas curse right would have been like all. But that's why digging into these kind of dry you know yes the antics and everything which is to wake you up but we skip beautiful moment and beautiful miracles in scripture because we don't have to be the driver king of the high can. We don't take time to dig in the weird parts we don't take the time to dig in the parts that just look super us just a bunch of names yeah it's just a bunch of names but if you notice that Matthew's names are three by 14 and that spells David and shows these the actual son of David but Matthew also records your high can so now how can Jesus be born from the line of bless because Jesus naturally born from Joseph. Joseph had remember Joseph was going to get rid of Mary and an angel had to appear to Joseph and was like do not be afraid to take Mary is your wife for what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. One of the moments when we get to heaven the moment I want to ask about that very rarely gets talked about and I've only ever seen it in movies once or twice. The angel appears to Mary first and says you're going to concede he's like how can this be the time is still version that's impossible and angel says there's nothing impossible with God then she tells Joseph and Joseph gets ready to divorce her so much so that God sends an angel to Joseph. And an angel speaks to Joseph and says do not be afraid to take Mary is your wife was conceived in her is from God. I want to know what Mary's comeback line was when Joseph showed up to Mary and was like okay honey so this angel showed to me. I like I got man I got to know how long did Mary hold that one over Joseph like oh I did an angel say that one Joe yeah. There are so many human moments in scripture that we miss because we're so busy sanctifying it it's sanctified on its own it's part of God it doesn't need our help to be special it's the most special document in the world but these people were humans and their history is our history. The curse of your high again is our history the fact that our Savior and King of Kings and Lord of Lords was miraculously born in a household of your high again without inheriting the curse from that line because Mary was a descendant of a different son of David. God was planning that all the way back then. Why for us today. There are some I mean it's just it's just really beautiful and I think the more we allow ourselves to go into the uncomfortable space and look at the different difficult parts of scripture, the better we're going to be. So let me give you the takeaway that brings us in for a landing. And then we don't have any do you have any question. Can you look the way in the question. So if you have a question go ahead and punch into the notes and ask your question and mail you get those ready here's your takeaway. Jesus is the biological and legal descendant of David, who will inherit the throne and defeat the devil. That's what you get when you put the two genealogies together. Jesus is the biological descendant of David through Mary. Jesus is the legal descendant through Mary and or it really legal through Joseph, but he gets the legal without the biological curse. That's amazing. And therefore he can not only inherit the throne, but he can do what Luke showed, and he can defeat the devil. That's why the genealogies are important.