Dealing with Difficulty
Tuesday, September 7, 2021 9:46 AM
Everyday Faith: Dealing with Downers
James 1:1-8
--
Key Thought:
Living a life of faith is not easy. There are challenges we must all face in the daily
walking out of a relationship with Jesus. The "Everyday Faith" we live is our
external witness to our relationship with Christ.
--
Setting:
Authored by James, the half-brother of Jesus, the book of James is likely the first
New Testament letter to be written at around 45 - 48 AD. James offers a look into
the "Everyday Faith" struggles of the early Church before the more didactic
teaching letters of Paul. James challenges every believer to live holy, set apart for
Christ, and to reflect Him in their lifestyle.
--
1. Accept: Bad things happen to good disciples
James 1:1
--
James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the twelve tribes scattered
among the nations: Greetings.
--
James - the half-brother of Jesus who became a leader in Jerusalem AFTER Jesus
resurrection
Servants - the word can also be translated "slave"
Lord - /kur-eee-os/ the one whose authority I am under
Twelve tribes - the twelve tribes of Israel, linking faith in Christ to the OT
Covenant God
Scattered - a reference to a persecution that broke out against Jewish Christians
(Act 8:1)
Greetings - the word used here is the same for "be glad" or "rejoice"
--
2. Recognize: Problems serve a purpose in our spiritual growth
James 1:2-3
--
Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters, whenever you face trials of many
kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith produces perseverance.
--
Consider - begins with an attitude of reflection or consideration… mindfulness of
Everyday Faith Page 1

Consider - begins with an attitude of reflection or consideration… mindfulness of
the Master
Pure joy - unmixed or untainted + gladness or rejoicing
Brothers and sisters - /adelphoi/ other believers in Christ
Trials of many kinds - the "testing" or "investigating" (as in a court case) to
discover truth
Testing - the results or proved answer of the trial
Produces perseverance - endurance or patience, the ability to remain faithful
despite trial
--
3. Admit: We are all spiritual "works in progress"
James 1:4
--
Let perseverance finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not
lacking anything.
--
Perseverance - the ability to remain
Finish its work - a state of completeness, maturity, fully developed
Complete - blameless, not missing anything
Lacking anything - falling short, unfinished, lacking
--
4. Understand: Spiritual maturity is a "living skill" not just a mentality
James 1:5
--
If any of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all
without finding fault, and it will be given to you.
--
Lacks wisdom - not just mental understanding but the "skill of living" seeking
maturity
Ask God - the one who created our life is the one who teaches us how to live it
Gives generously - God gives without holding back or "reserving" for Himself
Will be given to you - a guarantee from the Lord that the ability to live mature
will be given
--
5. Learn: Spiritual Maturity provides the foundation for the rest of our life
James 1:6-8
--
But when you ask, you must believe and not doubt, because the one who doubts is
like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed by the wind. That person should not
expect to receive anything from the Lord. Such a person is double-minded and
unstable in all they do.
--
When you ask - James assumes every believer WANTS to grow more mature
Everyday Faith Page 2

When you ask - James assumes every believer WANTS to grow more mature
Believe - to place one's faith in
Not doubt - to hesitate, pass judgment on, to discriminate against
Wave of sea - constantly in motion, but never stable or reliable
Tossed by the wind - exterior forces that push and pull in different directions
Expect to receive nothing - God puts a clear stipulation on receiving "living skills"
from Him
Double-minded - lit. "double souled" or a person who is both in the world and in
Christ
Unstable - restless, lacking a foundation
--
The Takeaway:
We must understand, like the early Church, bad things will happen in our life. Our
relationship with Jesus does NOT make us immune to this fact. However, in Christ,
trials and difficulties serve a greater purpose, to help mature us. We must be
willing to submit and learn from the Lord who is at work in all of us.
Everyday Faith Page 3