Well good morning and happy Easter! Good morning! Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here at Catalyst. Whether you are physically here in the church building with us or if you are joining us online, thank you so much for being a part of the Catalyst family and celebrating Resurrection Day with us. Now here at Catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people too. Life change in Christ. We love you. If you are here this morning we love you. If you are watching this online we love you. If you are watching this after the fact we love you too. But we love you enough to tell you the truth. We don't want you to remain the same. One of the benefits of being a Christian is being able to daily become more like Jesus. And there is no better day to talk about Jesus than on Resurrection Sunday. So that's what we are going to talk about this morning. We are going to talk about the resurrection. For the last two years I've done more of an apologetically focused resurrection. We've talked about its historicity. We've talked about how you can defend it. And I will mention some of those things. But this morning I really want to focus on the theological value of what does the resurrection mean? Like why do we celebrate a resurrection? Not just that a resurrection happened and it did, but also what does that mean and why do we need to celebrate it? So I'm going to give you the key thought first that's sort of going to be the main foundation, the point of this morning's teaching. Here it is. The resurrection is Christianity. Without it there is no salvation. And I know that's going to sound weird, but I promise it will make sense in a minute. It will make sense. Without a resurrection there is no salvation. Now let me give you the main point here. 1 Corinthians chapter 15 verse 14. This is what the apostle Paul says. 1 Corinthians chapter 15 verse 14. And if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless and so is your faith. Our preaching is useless and so is your faith. If you continue to read on from that verse, he's going to tell you in verse 17 that if Christ has not been raised then we are all still dead in our sins. Christianity hinges on one singular claim. That Jesus of Nazareth rose. If everything else is true, let's say Jesus was born just as the Bible says he was. He lived just when the Bible says he lived. He died just as the Bible says he died. But he didn't rise as the Bible says he did. There still is no Christianity. And I know that, especially for me as an American Christian, it sounds weird because a lot of times we talk about Jesus dying for our sins. And that's true. It's theologically true that he died. But that he died for sins is a theological way to look at Jesus. It's not the historical way to look at Jesus. So this morning, the text that I'm going to use, and I'll give it to you, it's 1 Corinthians chapter 15, the first eight verses. And there's a reason I chose this passage for this day. We could have gone to the Gospels. We could have looked at Matthew's account of the resurrection. We looked at Luke this morning for sunrise service. I could have gone to John. But I'm going to use Paul and here's why. The section of scripture that I'm going to read to you this morning is the earliest message about Jesus that was ever shared on planet Earth. 1 Corinthians chapter 15 verses 1 through 8 encompass the earliest Christian hymn to be written about Jesus. What I'm going to read to you this morning is what they were saying about Jesus, not within months, not within weeks, within days of the resurrection event itself. So yes, while somebody may claim, well, the Gospels were written decades later after. Yeah, they were. I don't have a problem with that. Matthew probably late 40s, early 50s. I mean, Mark, then Matthew, Luke, 50s, 60s. John written in the 90s. Those are all true story. So what we're going to look at today, 1 Corinthians chapter 15 verses 1 through 8 was being preached about Jesus within days of the resurrection. So this is quite possibly the or actually not quite possibly. Absolutely. The earliest message about Jesus to have ever been shared is what we're going to share this morning. So the first thing I want to do is read it to you. And then I want to go back through and sort of unpack this because there's a lot of beautiful. And this is quite possibly just the coolest part of the gospel presentation in my opinion. So here we go. First Corinthians chapter 15. Let's start in verse one. Read it through and then we'll come back. Now, brothers and sisters, I want to remind you of the gospel I preached to you, which you have received and on which you have taken your stand. By this gospel, you are saved if you hold firmly to the word I preach to you. Otherwise, you have believed in vain. For what I received, I passed on to you as a first importance that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures, that he was buried and that he was raised on the third day, according to the scriptures. And that he appeared to Cephas and then to the 12. After that, he appeared to more than 500 of the brothers and sisters at the same time, most of whom are still living, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. And last of all, he appeared to me also as to one abnormally born. And I just want to stop there. Just these eight verses. Now, the apostle Paul did not follow Jesus during the gospel season, right? So the apostle Paul became a follower of Jesus after the resurrection. So some people want to say, well, why do you want to take the guy's word for it? I'm going to show you why. So here we go. First Corinthians chapter 15, verse one. He opens with, now, brothers and sisters, understand this, Paul is writing to Christians. Paul is writing to Christians about what they claim they already believe, right? I want to talk to you about the gospel I already preached to you. You've already heard this. We're already in relationship. But the Greek word behind brothers and sisters is Adelphos, and it literally means fam. So if Paul was on Instagram or TikTok today, he would open up with like, OK, fam, hear me. That is what that now, brothers and sisters. He's saying, OK, fam, listen up. We're all related. And he says, I want to remind you of the gospel I preached to you. So he's saying, listen, we've already talked about Jesus once. You've already placed your faith in him. But I want to remind you of what I preached to you. He is referencing something they already learned, something they already knew. And then he further defines what I preached to you, which you received. So you received, you heard what I said and on which you have taken your stand. In this verse, I think we get to see how the gospel works. This one little verse, it shows us how the gospel works. First, the gospel is preached, then it is received. And then that which is received becomes the foundation on which faith stands. That's who he's talking to right now. He's talking to a group of people who heard about Jesus because Paul preached the gospel. Then they received the gospel message, meaning they placed their faith in it. They agreed with it. They believed it. And then because they believed it, it became the foundation on which you have taken your stand, on which you believe. That's verse one. Then verse two. By this gospel, you are saved. So verse one shows you how the gospel works. Verse two tells you what the gospel does. And that's the difference. So how the gospel works. It's preached, it's received, it becomes a foundation. What the gospel does is you are saved. And then he says, if you firmly hold to the word I preached to you, otherwise you believed in vain. Now you have to understand the historical context here. Paul is writing to a church that he founded in the city of Corinth. The first century city of Corinth was kind of like the Grecian Vegas, if you will. So Corinth exists on this island of land in between two large bodies of water. It's actually Isthmus, but I can't say that word very well, so don't ask me to say it again. And so on this side there's water and on this side there's water. And a lot of times, instead of sailing around, what they would do is they would bring the boat in, they would dock, they would unload the goods, transport it across land, across this small little thing, and then put it on another boat here and take it that way. So when you got sailors getting off here and they're walking across land and then they're getting on here, what do sailors do when they reach land? Uh-huh. Yeah, everybody, just take a minute. Right? What do sailors do when they reach land? They're going to spend money, they're going to look for entertainment, they're going to look for company, and they're going to look for fun. And they're going to do all of that in the time it takes them to walk across a stretch of land that's only about five miles wide. Corinth is right in the middle. So Corinth as a city was known for everything that your brain is thinking that I'm not allowed to say because I'm preaching on camera. Right? Corinth was known as, you know, what happens in Corinth stays in Corinth. That's what Corinth was. And so when Paul plants this church here and he brings the good news about Jesus that they then place their faith in, they're in the middle of sailor on shore leave culture. That's where they're at right now. And he's having to remind them because people are coming in after Paul and they're trying to give a different gospel. They're trying to give something other than what Paul preached. Now there's a couple different arguments of which change they're trying to make. But I want you to see in verse two. Verse one is how the gospel works. Verse two is what the gospel does. By the good news, you are saved. Now what does he mean? If you hold firmly to it, if you continue to believe in Jesus despite external pressure. Now this one's a little hard for us today because we don't live in a country that persecutes us for being Christians. We're literally all sitting in the middle of a building where everybody knew we'd be here today celebrating Jesus. And there's no armed guards and there's no dogs and there's no attack helicopters. And like we're allowed to freely come here and worship Jesus. And that's amazing. But that is not the first century world that the church was born into. You weren't allowed to worship any other God above Zeus, above Caesar. You could worship a God, but it had to be second to Caesar. As long as your God was second to Caesar, we're good to go. But if you tried to claim that your God was greater than Caesar, then we're going to kill you. Because the first century Roman world had, I'm going to use a term that us as Americans we get. There's no separation of church and state in the first century. Right? We have that today. The United States government is not allowed to require us to worship any one specific deity or religion. That's a foundational piece of our country. That is not the world of the first century Christians. There is no separation of church and state. In fact, the highest church in the land is the Caesar cult. That Caesar is God. So when you hold on to the gospel, that Jesus is God, you're standing against culture. You're believing against culture. And that's why we see so much persecution in the first century. So if you can firmly hold to it in spite of external pressure, if you give back, then saving faith requires perseverance. That's what he's saying. He's saying in verse two, by the gospel you're saved. You got to hold on during persecution. Saving faith requires that perseverance that says, listen, I'm not backing down. I worship Jesus now. And then in verse three, Paul gets into what is probably the earliest Christian hymn. And he says here, for what I received, I passed on to you. So this is super important. Because somebody is going to come back to me and they're going to say, but wait a minute, you said that Paul wasn't saved. I mean, I'll go ahead and tell you because I've looked it up. I think Paul is saved about 18 to 24 months after the resurrection event. So I date the resurrection to April the 9th of AD 30. There's only really two choices, AD 30 and AD 33. I'm in the earlier camp. If you want to know how I got there, there's a whole bunch of these books right out there in the lobby. And I go through the Corinthian evidence and the Galatians timeline and I show you exactly how I got to that date. But Paul is saved about 18 to 24 months after the resurrection. Where did he learn his gospel message from? Well, it's not here. But if you switch over to Galatians and you read the introduction of Galatians, Paul tells you he learned the gospel from the risen Jesus himself. He got the gospel from the source. He didn't have to wait and see if Peter, James and John were going to get it right or whether their ADHD was going to kick in. When Paul gets converted on the Damascus road, which is later in the book of Acts, right? We see the story. Paul also recounts the story like three more times. Jesus himself calls Paul into apostleship. And then Jesus himself trains Paul for about three years in his risen glorified state. He chooses Paul as the apostle to the Gentiles and he teaches Paul the gospel. And if we were ever not sure about whether what Jesus taught Paul is the same thing as what Jesus taught Peter, James and John in Acts chapter 15. Paul goes to them and he double checks and he wrote all of that in us for Galatians so we could see it. You can look in Galatians and he said, listen, after a couple of years I did this. Then I went and checked with those who are apostles before I was. We compared our notes, made sure our gospels online, and then I went to go do what God called me to do. So the gospel that Paul is delivering is directly from Jesus and double checked by Jesus's original followers. So there's no way you can say that Paul made it up. There's no way you can say Paul just came up with his own gospel centric ideas. He's giving us the gospel from Jesus confirmed through Jesus followers. He says this, for what I have received, I passed on to you of first importance. This is the apostle Paul saying, listen, this is the most important thing to know about Jesus. There's a lot we could know about Jesus. And in the larger world of Christian thinking and theology, there's lots of stuff. Man, we could talk about the virgin birth and we could talk about if Jesus is fully man and fully God. We could talk about how did Jesus do his miracles. Was it by his divine power or by the Holy Spirit's divine power that was resident within him? There's all these cool things we could talk about. But this right here, this right here is the singular most important thing that we can talk about. And he says, I want to give you of what is of first importance. This is what, I'll say it this way, without this, anything else you learn about Jesus doesn't save. That's what I'm saying. There's a lot we can know, but then there's this core central aspect, what we need to know about Jesus. And he says, this is what is of first importance. And then he lists two facts and then he gives you evidence to confirm both facts. So here we go. At the end of verse three, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. This is point one. That Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And what he means is exactly the way we normally teach it today. That Jesus died on a cross and the blood of Jesus forgives sins. And then you can tie that back to Adam and there's sin in the world and Jesus has to forgive sin and all that super big. But what I want you to see is what he says that Christ died according to the scriptures. And then the beginning of verse four that he was buried. So remember when the Bible was written, all these cute little like chapters and verse numbers and stuff wasn't there. Paul was just writing a letter. And I don't know about you, but like, you know, Jerry, when I'm writing a letter or a text message, I don't stop and number each of my sentences as a different verse number. I don't know. Does anybody else do that? You're writing like, oh man, this would be a great verse five. Let's just put a five. No, we did all of that later so we could do what we're doing now and study the scriptures together. So when you read the sentence, for I received what I passed on to you as a first importance. Christ died for our sins according to scriptures. He was buried, that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures and that he appeared to Cephas and then to the 12. That's one sentence. That's one big thought. But I want to break it down and show you what happens. So one, a, Jesus died for sin according to the scriptures. One, b, he was buried. Do you know what he was buried means in the first century? It's confirmation that he was dead. Do you know why you have to know he's dead? Because there's no resurrection if Jesus didn't die. Right. That's one of the common theories that is that is thrown at Christians. It's called the swoon theory. And they say, well, you know, it's it's it's fine and fine and all that you think Jesus rose from the dead. But isn't it actually more believable that he just like passed out? And that he was revived in the cool of the tomb? No, it's actually not believable at all. If you look at what was in what was entailed in Roman crucifixion. In fact, back in the late 80s, early 90s, the Journal of American Medicine did an article where they examined the brutality of Roman crucifixion and they confirmed to a medical standard. There is no possible way a human being would survive that. But even if you went with the with the swoon theory, you got another big theory. Swoon theory. You got another big question. How does a dude who was tortured half to death roll away the stone, overpower the guards and escape and never be found? But you got a whole lot of problems if Jesus just passed out. First, you also have to understand Romans were really good at killing Christians. Like we're really good at it. Ask any soldier today in the army. Can they tell the difference between an enemy who's alive and an enemy who's dead? And most of them are going to say, yeah, we'll just double check. So I just don't think it's reasonable to believe that Jesus passed out. But here, what Paul is saying is, listen, Jesus died. And here's the confirmation that he died. He was actually buried. Also, first century Jews, they would have wrapped the body. They would have covered it in. In fact, later on in the Gospels, we see Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea preparing the body of Jesus for burial. So you're telling me the Roman soldiers didn't know he was dead. The Jewish rabbis who regularly prepare bodies and they totally know. That's like telling a modern-day funeral director. Can't tell the difference between someone who's alive and somebody who's dead. It just doesn't make sense. So when Paul is saying Jesus died and he was buried, he's saying he died and we confirmed it. We died and we confirmed it. And then Jesus rose according to the scriptures. And then verse five, verse six, verse seven, verse eight. What is that? He rose and we confirmed it. That's what he's saying. Jesus died and we confirmed it. And he rose and we confirmed it. What's really interesting is verse four, it's almost like a passing comment. He died and was buried. We get it. He died and was buried. Sure. And then when he talks about when he rose, now you get the witness list. First, he appeared to Cephas. That's Peter. This is verse five. Then he appeared to the twelve. After that, he appeared to more than 500 brothers and sisters at the same time. Paul knows that he is listing a fantastic fact. But he's listing it as a fact. This is not just a belief. This is not some spiritual idea. He is saying, bar none, Jesus died and we confirmed it. And he rose and we confirmed it. That's why we believe it. A couple years ago when we looked at the resurrection, we asked the question, is the resurrection mythology or is it history? Now, when you say that something is mythology, that doesn't necessarily mean that it's made up. Right? America has a mythology surrounding George Washington. Everything from cherry cheese to wooden teeth to how tall he was on his horse. Why? Because he's a major figure in the history of our nation. And so we kind of have mythologized who he was. He was an actual dude. Apparently, he was really tall. And so just because there is a mythology around George Washington and the stories that we tell about him, did he actually go chop down a cherry tree in Washington, D.C.? Well, probably not because Washington, D.C. wasn't Washington, D.C. during his lifetime. But that doesn't mean there was no George Washington. Right? It just means that we've collected the stories about his life and we continue to share them. Well, a lot of people would like to say, well, that makes a lot of sense to me. I think Jesus is the same way. I'll totally give you that Jesus was a historical figure. In fact, most scholars today laugh at anybody who tries to deny that Jesus ever existed. It's a very, very miniscule amount of people who would ever try to say there was no Jesus of Nazareth. In fact, I have a book at home in my home library written by an atheist and it calls Did Jesus Exist? And it's chapter after chapter after chapter of historical facts written by the atheist guy who said Jesus was totally, absolutely a first century Jewish figure. Jesus lived in first century Jerusalem. He was a rabbi. He was respected. He was crucified by Pontius Pilate in Jerusalem on Passover weekend. These are historical facts that are not even in dispute. Even by atheists, they're not in dispute. The fact that Jesus' followers claimed that he came back from the dead is also not in dispute. The other reason I chose this particular book to preach out of this Sunday is this particular book, First Corinthians, along with a couple other books from Paul, are guaranteed accurate even by atheist scholars today. They don't question. There's like seven books from the New Testament that even atheist scholars are going to say, yeah, that was totally that's totally historical. Now, what's funny is they're going to deny that Jesus rose, but they're going to guarantee Jesus followers thought he rose. So you're going to at least give me that we claimed a resurrection from day one. The only question left after you realize we claim to resurrection and we gave you all of these witnesses. Dude, he died and we confirmed it. He rose and we confirmed it. And then Paul gives an entire list of more than five hundred and thirteen people that you can check with. That's how we know. That's why if you go back, that's why that's the foundation of faith. So let me give you a simple example. How many people in this room? We're not alive or let's say not necessarily. How many people in this room do not have an active memory of the morning of 9 11? Do not have an active memory of it. OK, so that means everybody of a certain younger age. Right. All right. Put your hands down. How many people remember the morning of 9 11? All right. So it's the majority of us. OK, those of you who don't remember that morning, I can tell you what day of the week it was. I can tell you where I was when I turned on the news. I can tell you what I was doing. Why? Because that moment was so jarring that it has a place that was sewn into my memory. Right. So for those of you who do not have an active memory of the morning of 9 11, do any of you question that that event actually never happened? No. Why? Because you're sitting in a room full of people who were alive that day. Even if you yourself were not alive, you're sitting in a room full of people who were. You're sitting in a room full of people who witnessed it. Now, my cousin literally lived in Manhattan. I remember the turmoil for about half a day trying, my family trying to reach my cousin because she was in downtown Manhattan. So here's what's interesting. At the time that Paul is writing this letter, it is just about, so Paul wrote this one in about like AD, I want to say it was 52 to 55. So 22 to 24 years after the resurrection event, the same amount of time between today and 9 11. So for all of you who don't have an active memory of that event, do you question everyone else in this room's active memory or do you realize, wow, there's so many people that witnessed that event that I can reasonably still learn what happened then because of the number of witnesses I can check. That's what Paul is saying. Paul saying, guys, there's 513 people that witnessed that event. That's what Paul is saying. Paul saying, guys, there's 513 people who were there who saw it. Just go check with them. You know the one thing, so a lot of people want to say that Christianity is a conspiracy and we invented the resurrection story. Here's the problem. You can't invent a conspiracy theory when the witnesses who were there the first day are still alive. And this goes for the legend theory too that we looked at the Greco-Roman pantheon and we looked at the Egyptian pantheon and the Persian pantheon and everybody's got a dying and rising God. So Christianity invents the resurrection of Jesus. That is historically impossible. You know why? Because it would take at least three generations for legend to develop. And we are 24 years from the event of the resurrection. The only possible choices and let me put it to you this way. Those of you who were not alive the morning of 9-11, you got two choices. 9-11 happened the way we claimed it did or all of us are wrong. Now that doesn't mean all of us are lying. Only the first person has to lie and everybody else has to believe it, right? So is it more reasonable to you young little people? Is it more reasonable that everyone in this room who remembers the morning of 9-11 is all in on some giant conspiracy theory to all convince you that 9-11 actually happened? Is that more reasonable than all of our witness testimony together we saw it? Because you're reading a text written in the same distance chronologically from the resurrection event as we stand today from the 9-11 event. It's easy to look back across 2,000 years and go oh yeah we totally made that up, right? Sure, yeah. After a couple hundred years everybody wanted Jesus to be God so we made him God. But the problem is Jesus is God here right now. He said he died and we proved it. He rose and we proved it. So now you're left with a really tough question. Are the first hand witnesses of the 9-11 event the same as we are? Are the first hand witnesses who are telling you he rose and by the way they never found the body of Jesus. So if you want to claim that the resurrection is a hoax, number one you've got to get past the fact that Paul says go double check, right? It would be as if I said listen if you don't believe me, Dottie was alive the morning of 9-11, Brian was alive the morning of 9-11, you can go ask Mr. Phil was alive the morning of 9-11, I can go ask all of the other people who are here. If you don't believe my story go check. But don't just throw out my story because you don't like it. Or because it challenges, and here's the other thing, because it challenges the cultural milieu worldview of the day. The cultural worldview of the day is Caesar is God. And Caesar is King. And if you start using words like Lord and Savior and King about anybody else other than Caesar, we got problems. We can't let you do that. But here we are, 24-25 years from the resurrection event. And Paul is giving you 513 different witnesses. Now he does say a couple of the 500 fallen asleep, that's a first century euphemism for a passed away. So let's just say there's 513 people here and 30 of them have passed away. So now you're down to like 480 something because I'm not good at math. Here's why all of this is important. Number one, from the get, from day one, Christianity has always claimed that the resurrection of Jesus is a 100% historical event. It's not mythological. We didn't make it up. We didn't invent some crazy story about a carpenter who died and came back to life. No. Jesus as a historical figure is beyond contestation. His death is beyond contestation. In fact, Jesus is one of the few people from antiquity that you can guarantee have existed. There is more evidence for the life of Jesus than the life of Julius Caesar. In fact, that's in the opening chapter of the He Has Risen book, which is out there. I compare Caesar crossing the Rubicon, which is that moment when Caesar invaded ancient Rome, to the resurrection of Jesus. There is more evidence for the resurrection of Jesus than for Caesar crossing the Rubicon. And no one questions this one. You know why? Because this one forces you to question your worldview. Whether Caesar crossed the Rubicon or not doesn't change my Taco Bell order on Sunday. But if Jesus rose, now I've got to figure out what does that mean? What does that mean? And here's what it means for Christians. The reason Paul says the resurrection is the central point is because we need the resurrection to confirm salvation. So here's where we switch from apologetics to theology, right? He said, Paul said, if Jesus isn't rose, then all of our faith is in vain. You know why? Because if Jesus didn't rise from the grave, then you can claim that his death accomplished anything you want. There's no proof. You could claim he believed he was dying for sins. He believed he was dying as the Jewish Messiah. He believed he was dying as the savior of the world. But if he's still dead, who cares? If he's still in the tomb, it doesn't matter. The only way salvation is life after death is if there was actually life after death. And then think about this. What is the purpose of salvation? To unwind what happened all the way back in Genesis with the fall. When sin entered the world, what came as a consequence of sin? Death, right? Paul says that in Romans. The wages of sin is death, which means salvation has to deliver the opposite of death, which is life. If Jesus didn't rise, that's why there's no salvation. Because in order for the payment and penalty of sin to be completely overtaken, sin brought death. Jesus has to reverse this by not only paying for sin, but by restoring life to that which is death. The only way you have that is if the tomb was empty. If Jesus didn't rise, there is no salvation. That's why remembering that moment that I will say is 100% absolutely historical. Remembering this moment is everything for Christianity. Jesus saves, not the Bible. The Bible tells us about Jesus. But just ask yourself a simple question. If you have that proverbial man trapped on an island who believed in Jesus but didn't have a Bible, is he still saved? Yes. Why? Because Jesus rose. And keep in mind, that's the singular thing. He says what's of most importance? Jesus died for sins according to the scriptures, and he rose. And here's the 513 people who can tell you it happened. And if that didn't happen, the rest of this is all a waste of time. The rest of this is all for naught. And here's how I'll sum it up. Jesus died for sin. That's totally true. In fact, Paul said that. He died for sin, but he rose to save. He died for sin, and he rose to save. And that right there has been the central Christian claim for 1,994 years since the resurrection event. He died for sin, and he rose to save. If he didn't rise, there is no saving. We're still dead. If he didn't rise, then he's not God. And also, and keep this in mind, if he didn't rise, there's no way he can guarantee life after death. If the atheist is right, and when the electric stuff stops firing in our brain, it's like a super technical term, electric stuff, right? So when the electric stuff stops firing in our brain and we cease to exist, if the atheist is right, then we just stop. That's called annihilationism. We just cease to exist. Then the afterlife doesn't matter because there's no afterlife. If Jesus didn't rise, there's no afterlife. If he did rise, then he is who he says he is. That's what Paul is saying. Jesus died for sin, and he rose to save. No other doctrine or detail of Christianity matters more than this one. We want to talk about the age of the earth and debate how does science and theology work together. Totally. Let's do that. I literally just read two more books on it yesterday. So let's do that. Let's have that discussion that's not salvific in nature. We want to talk about the role of the Holy Spirit in the church, and what's the right music style, and what's the right view of revelation. Those are all great, fun theology topics. Let's get some burgers and let's talk it out. But if we don't talk about this one, Jesus died for sin and rose to save, then we still let people go to hell. And that can't be okay. If we boil all of the Christian conversations down to what Paul said is of most importance, Jesus died and we proved it. We checked it out. And he rose and we proved it. We checked it out. And for those of you who are not alive the morning of 9-11, I would just simply ask you, if you have enough faith to believe the witnesses who are in this room that 9-11 happened, then you should have enough faith to believe the witnesses who were there that day that the resurrection happened. And if you come back at me and say, well, we have video of 9-11, then you're being chronocentric and you're requiring an evidence standard that they did not require then. You can't rewind the clock or take the DeLorean or the Tardis back in time and make the first century obey our rules. This is first century witness. And he gave you 513 different people to check. And here's the cool thing. If only one of them admitted it was a lie, then the game's up. Maybe they made it up. Okay, really? Do you really think it's possible that they all died torturous deaths for something they knew was a lie? And then why did they lie in the first place? I love this one. Atheists want to come at me like, well, they made it up because they wanted power. They wanted money. They wanted fame. I'm like, they suck at getting what they want. They didn't get any of that. You know what they got? They got run out of town. They got tortured. They got murdered. That is, there's just no motivation, especially when Paul says, just check it out. Who is it? So here's your takeaways. We bring this one in for landing. I'm asked the worship team to come back up. To be a Christian, all you have to believe is Jesus died for sin and rose to save. That's it. We can talk about everything else secondary. You want to talk about the role of cosmology in the beginning of the universe? I love it. It's a huge topic. I read about it all the time. You want to talk about the age of earth and geology and all that stuff? Great. I love it. You want to talk about the in-depth nature of how the Holy Spirit works in the church? Cool, man. Let's do it. But this one right here, Jesus died for sin and rose to save, is the only thing that matters. The only thing that matters when it comes to actually being a Christian. My only question is, are you willing to believe that it happened? Or do you still question the validity of the resurrection?