Well, good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being here and being a part of this virtual worship. While I am preaching to you here on our YouTube and Facebook page, we have a live missionary who is in our church, who for security reasons cannot be viewed online. So it is my privilege to sort of switch gears a little bit and just share with only our virtual audience this morning's sermon. I've entitled this sermon, Faith at the Cross. And I think the word faith, when we're Christians, we throw it around a lot. You know, we talk about having faith, and we talk about you just got to hold on to faith, and we talk about Jesus being the object of faith. But I think this particular story illustrates something about faith that I hope we can discover together. So if you have your Bible handy, do me a favor, turn or tap with me to the Gospel of Luke, the Gospel of Luke, that's the third Gospel in the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke. We're going to go to chapter 23, Luke 23. I'm going to read verses 39 to 43. So while you're turning to Luke chapter 23, here's the key thought that I hope to be able to communicate to you this morning in this virtual sermon. Faith can break out at any time, but when it does, it is absolutely life-changing. Faith can break out at any time, but when it does, it is life-changing. So first, let's take a look at Luke 23, 39 to 43. We'll read the whole thing, and then we'll come back and we'll take a look at it together. So here we go. Luke 23, starting in verse 39. One of the criminals who hung there hurled insults at him. Aren't you the Messiah? Save yourself and us. But the other criminal rebuked him. Don't you fear God? He said. Since you are under the same sentence, we are punished justly for what we are getting, what our deeds deserve. But this man has done nothing wrong. Then he said to Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Jesus answered him, truly I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise. I know it's just a short scene. It's only a few verses, but I think there are some very valuable lessons here for us when it comes to faith. So let me set the setting for you. I'm sure listening to that passage, you sort of figured it out. Jesus is hanging on the cross with a criminal on either side. One of those criminals believes, the other does not. The reason I chose this particular passage is it offers us a unique opportunity to look at both belief and unbelief up close in personal proximity to the Savior where one results in salvation and unfortunately the other results in damnation. So here we go. Let's jump back into Luke 23 at verse 39. One of the criminals. Now I already set the setting for you. Jesus is hanging on a cross with criminals hanging on either side of him. And Luke opens the narrative with the faithless, the non-believing criminal. And he opens the narrative by saying that this non-believing faithless criminal is hurling insults at Jesus. Now I've got to stop here because something I found very interesting as I was preparing for this message. The word hurled insults, which is really two words in our English translation, is really one word. The Hebrew word used here is blasphemy. Blasphemy, which sounds an awful lot like exactly what you're thinking, is where we get our English word blaspheme. And it means to speak evil or disbelief of something. So the unbelieving or the faithless criminal that is hanging crucified by the Savior is literally blaspheming the Son of God while he's on the cross. I found that interesting. The thing that's very interesting is the way the criminal addresses Jesus. He says, aren't you the Messiah? Now that's interesting because he's the faithless criminal and yet he properly identifies Jesus. Aren't you the Messiah? Save yourself and us. Literally, aren't you the Christ, the promised one, God's anointed one? What's unique about this criminal is that he knew of Jesus but he did not believe in Jesus. Let me say that again because I don't think you got it. He knew of Jesus but he did not believe in Jesus. That's a huge distinction. And what that should remind us of is the simple fact that knowing details about Jesus, knowing stories that he told, knowing Bible stories from when you were a kid, seeing the chosen TV show or a movie, knowing things about Jesus does not equate to believing in him. What's also interesting is that this faithless criminal was able to identify Jesus properly as the Messiah of Israel when the Pharisees and Sadducees and many of the believing religious teachers of his day could not. So he's so much closer and yet the next sentence he says after aren't you the Messiah reveals that it's just knowledge of not belief in. He says save yourself and us. So his knowledge of Jesus is enough to get what he wants. Save yourself and us. Aren't you the Messiah? Fine then just get us all to come down. Prove. How about you just go ahead and prove how Messiah you are Jesus and you take us down off the cross with you. This man's comments to me open a world of possibility for understanding how to evangelize with our friends, with our neighbors because we have to understand that faith in Jesus cannot simply be mental assent. It cannot simply be understanding facts about Jesus. It cannot simply be being able to repeat Bible stories about or owning the Jesus film because this faithless criminal understood all of those things and yet is still recorded as faithless. And I think one of the reasons for that is the second part of the faithless criminal statement here where he says save yourself and us. He's okay with Jesus as long as Jesus gives him what he wants. Now that's about to be juxtaposed or now if you turn to verse 40 now we get the view of the other criminal. So for lack of a better term the faithless criminal is over here. Now we turn to the other side of Jesus the faithful criminal gets his first line here in verse 40. But the other criminal rebuked him. So the faithless criminal is blaspheming and the faithful criminal is rebuking. And the other criminal rebuked him. Don't you fear God since you are under the same sentence. I think it's interesting that the faithful criminal does not immediately rebuke the blasphemy. He immediately questions the heart of the faithless man, the faithless criminal. He says don't you fear God. Now I got to be honest if you're on the cross you know you're dying. Like the Romans were fantastic at killing people. They made an art form of it. Crucifixion is literally the power display of dominating a people group. These men had to know they were not coming off the cross alive. And yet the faithless man continues to blaspheme. Continues to have a selfish perspective of the world. Well if you're the messiah then just get us out of here. I must be like you. We're all in this together right? And so he frames his version of Jesus around what he wants and what he gets. Whereas the faithful criminal calls him right out. Dude don't you fear God. Literally we're about to meet him. Don't you fear God. We're about to have to answer for our lives. And we are under the same sentence. Now I need to point out here that the word fear in verse 40. The word fear is often misused here when it talks about don't you fear God. So fearing God is not a Halloween scary horror movie type of fear. Fearing God is not out of some sense of danger. When the Bible talks about fearing God the word here literally means to have a holy reverence for. When he says don't you fear God. In a lot of ways I would have to admit I think that God is scary by virtue of the fact that he is the judge. That he is the all powerful creator. That he knows all that he sees all. Those do I mean let's be honest that's a little intimidating. But the word he's using here for don't you fear God isn't don't you think that God is scary. It's more of don't you have any reverence for the God we're about to meet. The only way that I could that I could analogize this in our modern day society. And we don't have kings and queens here in America. But I would say that if we were to travel to let's say Great Britain. And if I were to take my wife to London because that's where she wants to go honey. So I'll do my best to make that happen. Look I even said it on tape. If I take my wife to London. And we take a tour of the city of London. And we happen to I mean just literally is never going to happen. But we happen to stumble across King Charles. For some reason King Charles is out and about in the same sorts of places. That I would take my wife on a London tour. And we were to meet the king of England. I think there's a little bit of reverence there. I think I would do my best even as an American citizen to pay honor and reverence to the monarch of another nation. That doesn't mean that I find King Charles to be frightening or scary. But there is a level of respect and reverence for the position and that he serves and the way he serves his country. And if I can have an honor and reverence for a human king. I should have all the more honor and reverence for a holy God King. And so that's really the word here where he says don't you fear God. He's talking about don't you have a holy reverence for God. It's not thinking of God as you know like the Freddy Krueger character who's trying to come to get you. Where else do we see this idea in scripture of fearing God? Well if you turn to Genesis chapter 22 verse 12. God's response to Abraham's faith on Mount Moriah is now I know you fear God. It's not being afraid of God. It's having a holy reverence for God. Then we reach verse 41. We are punished justly for we are getting what our deeds deserve. But this man has done nothing. So this is another line from the faithful criminal. He's talking to the faithless criminal who's throwing shade at Jesus. And he says listen we are being punished justly. What he's basically saying is bro you know we're guilty. You know we did this. You know this is just and right for us to receive this punishment. But this man now referring to Jesus. This man has done nothing wrong. Two things I want you to see here in the faithful criminals statements in verse 41. First in order to understand that you are being punished justly. You are admitting that you know there is an authority over you who has judged you and found you guilty. It is the recognition of higher authority. When he says we are punished justly. He is saying it is the wheels of justice who have brought you and I to this punishment today. He is recognizing the existence of what is likely Roman authority because the Jews did not have authority to crucify anyone. So he is recognizing the existence of a higher authority that is not only allowed to judge him. But it's also allowed to sentence him and in this case sentence him to death. So he recognizes higher authority. He recognizes that higher authorities ability to sentence him. And then he says we are getting what our deeds deserve. Dude this is justice. This is what it looks like. We committed the crime. So now we got to do the time. And in this case the time is as long as it takes for you to die on a Roman cross. And yet in the midst of the faithful criminal explaining that he understands things like authority and justice. And a government's ability to do capital punishment. He also recognizes Jesus's innocence on the cross. Which means if he knows that there is a higher authority who has the right to judge. And who is muting out just justice for himself and the faithless criminal. That means that the crucifixion of Jesus if he is truly innocent is an unjust killing. He is saying all of that when he says we are punished justly. Now granted he is not actually saying it. I am expounding on what he is saying. But the implications of what the man is saying. We are getting what our deeds deserve. But this man here, Jesus, he has done nothing wrong. So now the faithful criminal is stating what he knows about Jesus. He knows that Jesus is on this cross fully innocent. And not deserving the punishment that he receives. Now verse 42 the faithful criminal will speak again. And this is the first time that he actually speaks directly to Jesus. Jesus remember me when you come into your kingdom. I love this sentence. Because this is the sentence that shows us the faithful criminal's salvation. He says Jesus remember me when you come into your kingdom. Now remember in the previous sentence he has already stated that he has an understanding of authority and justice and punishment. Now he says, he turns and he says Jesus remember me when. First if we are on the cross and we are dying and these are our last breaths. And he says remember me when. He is referring to a time that takes place after their death. So immediately, even though, because a lot of people like to ask me, Pastor Bill, do you think that the thieves that were crucified on the other side of Jesus were Jewish or Greek or Roman? I have no clue. I really don't. It's likely that the faithless criminal is probably Jewish because he uses the word Messiah. But is it also equally likely that a Roman could understand that Jews believed in Messiahs and understand that they thought that Jews was Messiah. That's why he's being killed. Yeah. So I can't, I cannot definitively answer you on what is the religious background of the two criminals that are on either side of Jesus. But I can tell you a few things about the faithful criminal. The first is remember me when means the faithful criminal has an understanding of the afterlife. He knows that there's some kind of existence that happens after this moment when he is crucified next to Jesus on the cross. Remember me when when when when when remember me when you come into your kingdom. So not only does the faithful criminal know that there is in fact an afterlife, he also knows or believes that in this afterlife, Jesus will be king. Not only is there an afterlife, but in this afterlife that we have not seen yet that this faithful criminal knows and believes is there. Jesus is in fact the king because he refers to the afterlife as your kingdom. Now, what does it mean if Jesus is the king of the afterlife? That's why the previous sentence was really important. We could see from the previous sentence that the faithful criminal understands higher authority. He understands the right to judge. He understands the right to sentencing. Now bring those three ideas into verse 42. If Jesus is the king of the kingdom of the afterlife, Jesus will be the one who has the authority, who has the right to sentence and who has the right to judge. What he is saying, if I if we do the math a little bit and I add verse 41 to 42, he is saying Jesus, I believe you are the king of the afterlife. And as the king, you will have the right and the authority to judge me and to sentence me. Please think of me well when we reach that place. That sounds an awful lot like Jesus, please save me. I know it's not it's not exactly the entire theological spectrum of I know I'm a sinner and I understand original sin and now the world is in hell and Jesus came and then the blood payment. No, there's not all of that theology built into this simple sentence. Jesus, remember me when you come in your kingdom. But what is here and I'll you know what I'll point it out. It's the same thing that Paul says in Acts chapter 17. When he is preaching in the Areopagus to the Greeks, he doesn't start with original sin. He starts with there's an afterlife. Why? Because the Greeks and the Romans all believed in an afterlife. Anybody ever seen? Oh, I know a Christmas Carol. Charles Dickens is a Christmas Carol. When the when the book and some of the movie adaptations open and Scrooge is put laying Jacob Marley to rest. And there are the coins on Jacob Marley's eyes and Scrooge is such a miser that he takes the coins. Do you know why they put the coins on the eyes? It's left over from Greco-Roman mythology that you had to have money to pay the boatman to carry you across the river sticks. That's where the coins come from. So whether he's a Greek, a Roman or a Jew, he believes in an afterlife. And he also now believes that when Jesus reaches the afterlife, Jesus will be the king who has the authority to make the decisions to punish him or not. So I submit to you that verse 42 is his prayer of salvation. He is saying Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Jesus, you're going to be the king. And in the afterlife, you're going to have the authority to judge me. And he also knows he's guilty. He knows he's he's dying for the crime that he committed. I'm dying justly because I did whatever I'm being executed for. Please, when we reach the next life, have mercy on me. If I can, you know, illustratively describe verse 42 a little bit. Then in verse 43, this is Jesus's simple response. Truly, I tell you today, you will be with me in paradise. Jesus's response to faith in the midst of agony is the promise of hope. It's not going to be a one day kingdom. It's not going to be, you know, maybe if I wait around long enough and I I stand at the right angle and I hold my hand right and I balance. No, he said today, you will be with me in paradise. Jesus's promise to the faithful thief on the cross was there's no waiting time. There's no downtime between his earthly life and his eternal existence. There's no, you know, pause button. There's no commercial break in between this life and the next life. This also would rule out if any of you are familiar with the idea of soul sleep. Jesus's words here in verse 43 sort of eliminate that. So those of you who are not familiar with soul sleep, it's the idea that when we die in this mortal life, we stop existing or we like get put on cosmic pause and then we just fast forward all the way to judgment. Jesus is speaking of the exact day and moment. Today, you will be with me in paradise. It also eliminates the Catholic doctrine of purgatory. There's not a holding tank before you transition into the afterlife. It is a one and done. Turn the page earthly life after life. Bang, click. Unfortunately, the faithless criminal did not place fate or at least it doesn't. It's not recorded in scripture that he placed faith the way Luke tells the story. There's a blaspheming criminal and a faithful criminal. And these are foils of one another, giving us a portrait of what it means to place faith in Jesus. The faithless criminal, the one who blasphemed, he did know things about Jesus. True things, in fact, facts about Jesus that other people didn't know. But he knew of Jesus but didn't believe in Jesus. He knew of Jesus as long as Jesus could do what he wanted him to do. It was his version of Jesus, his own personal Jesus. Whereas the faithful criminal, the faithful criminal throws himself at the mercy of the Savior King and says, please remember me when you make it to your kingdom. I believe there's an afterlife. You're going to be the king. Please remember me when I get there. The faithful criminal recognized higher authority, recognized that Jesus was that authority, and recognized that Jesus alone could save him from the afterlife or save him in the afterlife. The reason I decided to title this sermon Faith at the Cross is so many times as Christians, we talk about placing our faith in the cross because we're symbolizing Jesus on the cross. In this simple little story, we have a juxtaposition of two human beings who both knew things about Jesus but one wanted it his way and one was willing to fall at the mercy of the Savior King. What does this teach us about faith today? I think the simple fact is you can go to church and still go to hell. And I say that because I love you. I say that because it's the truth of what this story reveals that knowing facts about Jesus isn't good enough. Attending church and giving money and being on a service team and getting awards and knowing your worship songs and memorizing Bible verses and going to VBS is not enough. The clear difference between these two men is a exchange of trust. The faithless criminal tried to bring Jesus into his terms. The faithful criminal transferred all of his trust to Jesus and said, Lord, if you would please, I'm not deserving, but if you would please. This is selfish. This is selfless. This is faithless. This is faithful. I don't really care how long you've been going to church. I don't care how many books of the Bible you've read. I don't care how many times you've read the Bible. I don't care how much you pray or how much I care. Do you trust Jesus? Do you trust him? Here's the other thing I would say. So many people in church are going to go, of course, Pastor Bill. Of course, I trust Jesus. That's great. You trust him with your afterlife. Do you trust him with tomorrow? Do you trust him on your commute to work? Depending on where you drive, you might need to. Do you trust him in your character and in your marriage and your relationship with your children? Or are you remaining king and queen over all of those areas of your life and you just want Jesus to save your afterlife? I'm not saying that Jesus is this guy, not that guy. Finding faith at the cross means transferring trust to the Savior King who holds the ultimate authority to judge, to condemn, and to save. So that's my question for you. No matter what you know about Jesus, no matter how little or how much, that doesn't matter. I don't care if you got three different degrees in the Bible. I don't care if you got a degree in the historical Jesus. Knowledge by itself does not save. Because knowledge are only facts. Faith is built on a transfer of trust. Do you trust him today?