Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being a part of our service today. Whether you are here in our Wilmington campus or you are joining us on our online campus. Thank you for worshiping with us. Thank you for learning with us. Thank you for participating and engaging in worship today. We are going to be continuing our series on relationships, specifically with marriage and family relationships. So let me give you the key thought that sort of ties this whole series together. The Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation of who we are as God's image bearers. The Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation of who we are as God's image bearers. I also want to give you the same prefaces or prefaces that we talked about for the last couple weeks. First, this is a requested topic. So every year in the month of September, I will take sermon requests and teaching topics from you, the congregation. And then in October, I will try to build an annual sermon plan. And I just have to apologize. This was supposed to be a last year series, but our study of the book of Revelation kind of ran long. And to make sure that we did that well, this got pushed to this year. Second is unlike a typical sermon that you will hear at Catalyst, typically we will be in only one passage. We will do the big Bible story to get to that passage so we know what's happened before it. And then we will dig into that passage. This series, I can't do that. Because I can't just go to one specific verse and try to show you all that God says about family, or all that God says about marriage, or today we're going to look at all that the Word of God has to say about husbandry. And it would be hard in 45 minutes to do all of that from only one passage. So this is a topical series. That does not mean that we're not following good hermeneutics and good study method. It just means that in order to try to show you the broader picture of what the Word of God has to say, I have to be able to bring together multiple things. So today we are talking about husbandry. What does it mean to be a husband? What does the Bible say about being a husband? And I'd like to start by defining the word husband just so we're all clear about what we're saying. So the definition of husband that I would like to use this morning is any married man. Right? Is that okay? I think that's a fair definition. Husband is any married man, which means in reverse, if you are married and a man, you're a husband. That makes sense? I think what's also interesting is when we look at the definitions of husband, both in the Hebrew and in the Greek. So the primary word used for husband in Hebrew, and it's going to sound familiar if you were with us last week for marriage, is ish. The same exact word in Hebrew for man is husband. There is no distinction in the Hebrew language between man and husband. And if last week I taught a true sermon that man and humans are designed for marriage, that makes sense. If every man is built and designed to be a husband, and yes, there are some exceptions to that, but in the Hebrew the word ish is translated both man and also husband, depending on the context. Interestingly enough, the same is true in Greek. The word aner is literally man, male, husband. All the same word. I think then that based on this basis, I could give you a clear definition of husband beyond just any married man. So here it is. A husband is a male image bearer who is defined by his covenant, faithfulness, and love for his wife. A husband is a male image bearer. Why a male image bearer? Because again, in Hebrew and in Greek, man, male, and husband are all the same thing. So we're talking about the male part of humanity's image bearer. Remember when we saw at the very beginning of the series that we are made in the image of God, God made male and female in the image of God. It is not only male humans who are image bearers, but it is male humans and female humans who are image bearers. But only male humans can be husbands because a husband is a male image bearer who is defined by, and this is where we're going to kind of unpack this definition, who is defined by his covenant, faithfulness, and love for his wife. Ladies, if you are sitting next to your husband, I need to polish your elbow. You're going to use it today. So just stretch it out. You know, Jen, if you got that pickleball elbow ready to go. Yeah, just keep it. Here we go. So first, I would like to try and give you a biblical portrait of what a husband's faithfulness to his wife should look like. And then I will deal with what a husband's love for his wife looks like. So two halves here. The first is covenantal faithfulness from a husband. The second is covenantal wife. So in order to establish covenant faithfulness, let's first go to Genesis chapter 2 verse 24. We looked at this last week. We talked about marriage, but I got to start here because marriage is what makes men into husbands. So Genesis 2 24, that is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife and they become one flesh. This pretty much picks up exactly where we left off with the marriage sermon last week. That is why. Why is why? Because female human, the very first female human, her name was Eve, was made from the very first male human. But all other male humans are made from female humans. That is why. Because male and female were originally made from the same thing. That is why, and this is important, a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife. I stressed last week the leaving does not mean physical leaving. It means a changing of priority. At the time of marriage, a man will change his priority, his loyalty, and his faithfulness from his family of origin to his family of marriage. When I married the most beautiful woman on the planet, I changed my loyalty from my parents. Many of you have met them, Keith and Donna, my aunt and uncle, from my entire family of origin, cousins, aunts, uncles, everybody. There's that theological term again. Everybody. I changed my loyalty to one woman. And that one woman and I, we became a married couple and then we started a family. A husband's faithfulness is what he's designed and built to be. So now let's unpack it a little bit more. A husband must be faithful to his wife. I know this one's going to be pretty obvious, but let's go there just to make sure there are no misconceptions here. Exodus chapter 20 verse 14, right in the middle of 10 commandments. You shall not commit adultery. I know this one's super obvi, but let's go there. Did you notice that there are multiple words for sexual sin in the Bible, but there's only one if you're married. There's multiple kinds of sexual sin in the Bible, but there's only one word that references sexual sin against marriage itself. That's adultery. Adultery is such a word that it breaks and goes against the covenant faithfulness that is designed to be between a husband and a wife. If either member of the sinful party is married, the sinful act is adultery. Why? Because husbands are made to be faithful to their wives. I think that one's kind of obvi. Second, ladies, get your elbow ready. A husband's job is to bring happiness to his wife. Cue the elbow. A husband's job is to bring happiness to his wife. How did I justify that? Let's take a look at Deuteronomy chapter 24 verse 5. Remember that the book of Deuteronomy is the second law. So it's when the law is repeated to the children of Israel moving in. If a man has recently married, he must not be sent to war or have any other duty laid on him. For one year, ladies, elbow, he is to be free to stay at home and bring happiness to the wife he has married. This is in the law. God said, listen, newlyweds, take a year off. Make sure you know how to make your wife happy. These men, if the entire nation were to go to war, the newlyweds would stay home. If the family business decided to buy a next back 40 and expand in an expansion plan, the newlyweds stayed home. Why? Because God is setting a priority that the single greatest priority of a newlywed husband is not to defend the nation. A single greatest priority of a newlywed husband is not to be a part of a business expansion or buying a second flock. The greatest thing a newlywed husband can do is bring happiness to his wife. I needed you to see that. Gentlemen, I would argue that whilst the Deuteronomic law said you're not allowed to go to war for a year, I would say that it sets a good biblical principle. Husbands are not only to be faithful to their wives intimately, but husbands should be the person who brings happiness to their wife. One of my key strategies and my wife and children know this, it's no secret. One of my key strategies in going to bed every night not worrying about whether my wife is going to cheat on me is there is no male human on this planet who will work hard enough, stay up long enough, or do what it takes to make Melanie Ohms happy, right? I just divorce proofed my marriage. There is no man who will work hard enough to make this one human woman happy and that's why my wife will never be drawn to an emotional affair. My wife is never going to be drawn to talking to somebody on social media or drawn to meeting another man for coffee while I'm at work. Why? Because no man will go through the lengths that I will go through. Why? Because I have a purpose. My purpose is to serve God, make Melanie Ohm smile. That's like I just tattoo it right here. Serve Jesus, make Mimi smile. But I needed you to see that that's in God's word. That's not just like my strategy for marriage. That's God's strategy. Husbands, your faithfulness should include bringing happiness to your wife. Next, a husband's faithfulness should be an example of God's faithfulness. A husband's faithfulness should be an example of God's. Let's travel to the book of Hosea chapter one. Before we put the verse up, let me just remind you for those of you unfamiliar with the story of the book of Hosea. Hosea is a prophet that takes place after the civil war. That's right. After the civil war that fractures God's people in the middle of the Old Testament, Hosea is a prophet. And he is a prophet at a time where God's people are chasing after all kinds of foreign gods and committing idolatry which in God's eyes is adultery on him. And he calls to the prophet Hosea and he tells the prophet Hosea to marry a prostitute. And here we jump into Hosea chapter one verse two. When the Lord, covenant name of God, began to speak through Hosea, the Lord said to him, go marry a promiscuous woman and have children with her, for like an adulterous wife, this land is guilty of unfaithfulness to the Lord. Now, some of you may be here sitting here saying, yes, pastor, but is it in context God is actually saying that Israel is the unfaithful wife? Yes. But Israel is the unfaithful wife to God who is the faithful husband. And that is the parable that God was trying to have Hosea live out. That Hosea would be the faithful husband who no matter how much his wife left him and ran around with other men and slept with other men and lived in other men's homes, Hosea would remain faithful. And when that men would grow tired of her and they would sell her back out on the street, Hosea would come and pay and redeem her again. Just read the book of Hosea. It is heartbreakingly beautiful when you realize that we're the adulterous people who constantly walk away from God and he constantly is there to redeem us. Husbands, part of your faithfulness to your wife should be to mirror the never-ending faithfulness of God. And I'll go a step further and say that this idea of the way a husband treats his wife at home is to mirror the way God treats not only Old Testament Israel but the church. Jesus is coming back for the church. Jesus is the husband of the church. The church, if the church is the bride of Christ, then Jesus is the husband of the church. You're going to have one without the other. But there's another thing men that we do when we treat our wives appropriately. How many girl dads I have? Just here in the room. If you're a girl dad, raise your hand, right? Girl dads, okay? So here's the truth. Gentlemen, husbands, men who have daughters, the way you treat your wife trains your daughter what to expect from her husband. And gentlemen, the way you, those who have sons, right? Anybody got dad who has boys? The way you treat your wife trains your men for how they will treat their wives. You know how I want my grandchildren to be treated? I want my grandchildren to grow up seeing mom and dad have a healthy marriage. The only way I can do that is to model a healthy marriage. I want my daughters to not be swept away by the first guy who shows up and says, oh you're so pretty. How am I going to do that? I kid you not. I'm going to raise the most high maintenance Christian women you have ever met in your life. You are going to have to love this young girl better than I can love her mama. Challenge gauntlet down. If you can love one of my daughters better than I love my wife, maybe just maybe we will accept you in the clan. But there's a lot of reality in broken families making more broken families. And hurt people make more hurt people. And God just, God gave Hosea such a simple task, a heartbreakingly tragic but simple task. Model my love for my people so they can not only read about it but they can see it. Husbands that is your role at home. Model the love of God. Model the patience of God. I suck at that by the way. I'm gonna call myself out. Not good. If there was a category for a model the grumpiness of God, I would have that one down man. It's okay to be human but it's also okay to admit that the way husbands, the way we love our families is the number one mirror of the way our families learn about God. Did you know there was a study done I want to say it was about seven or eight years ago and it did a study of the most prominent figures in international atheism. Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens, any of you like apologetics you're going to know some of these names. Do you know what all and I mean all. All of the prominent figures in international atheism have one thing in common. It's not that they're male. It's not that they're female. It's not what degree or field they studied in. It's not how much education they have. Do you know what the one thing that all international atheists at the top bar have in common? A horrible relationship with their earthly father. Every single one. Tell me it's not valuable to have children growing up in a home that see how a husband can love his wife. And then finally let's go into the New Testament. One more thing I need you to understand about a husband's faithfulness. A husband's faithfulness is a requirement for eldership. A husband's faithfulness is a requirement for eldership. Let's go to 1st Timothy chapter 3 and look at the first three verses here. Here is a trustworthy saying. Whoever aspires to be an overseer, it's elder, pastor, all that is tied up in that word, desires a noble task. Now the overseer is to be above reproach, faithful to his wife. Temperate, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not given a drunkenness, not violent, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money. Did you notice what was first in the list? Faithful to his wife. In verse 2 it says, the overseer is to be above reproach and then Paul defines what above reproach means and he gives you all of these categories. And the very first thing is faithful to his wife. There are plenty of people I know who love to be on stage in front of people who want to talk a big game. I've even met pastors who think that they are fit to pastor merely because they are good orators or because they are good scholars. You are not fit for the role of eldership unless you are also a good husband. That's not me. That's the apostle Paul. If you don't like it, go disagree with Jesus. He wrote it. But we don't talk about that, right? Especially, and I've been in some ordination meetings and I've been in some elder conversations and we jump really quick to make sure, hey, are they temperate? Are they self-controlled? How about you ask his wife about his character, right? Gentlemen, nobody knows who we really are like our wives because they see us when no one else sees us. Don't tell me who you are when you come to church and you got your Sunday church face on, right? I'm the one who grew up in the house where my aunt and uncle and I, we would be fighting like cats and dogs. My uncle, when I was when I was a teenager living in their house, my uncle had a forest green Ford Explorer. That was our family vehicle. And when the wheels of Uncle Keith's Ford Explorer would touch the Holy Land of the Baptist Church parking lot, instantly the Holy Spirit comes over the entire truck. My family and I are no longer fighting. We walk in and we're all smiles and praise Jesus. I'm so happy to be in church. And the reverse happened the moment the rear tires of my family car. So don't think I'm not calling you out for anything I haven't lived. My family and I have been through the wringer. But if you were fighting on your way into church this morning and you got out of the church and walked in with your happy church face on, number one, I'm so thankful that you're here. I love you. Number two, when you get out of the car, stop being a hypocrite. We come in here broken and it's all right. This is a place for broken. This is a place where people get healed, where people get fixed, where people get renewed. Don't come in here and be fake about it because then you're hiding the very thing that needs to be healed. Husbands, before you could ever assume a leadership position in the church, the first person I want to talk to is your wife without you around. I want to hear the true story, right? I want to hear the you know the the VH1 behind the music level story. Just dated myself, right? Half the people in the room went, what's VH1? The rest of us here. You want me to make you feel old? Somebody told me this this week. How many people remember the the movie from the 80s, Back to the Future? Where Michael J. Fox, he takes a car and he goes back in time. If that movie happened today, if Michael J. Fox and Doc Brown had the DeLorean in the catalyst parking lot and they went back in time, do you know what year that he would have landed in? He would have landed in the year 2000. He wouldn't even be in anything that started in a one-nine. Marty McFly would have gone back to high school when they were banging Kesha with glitter on the floor and Pitbull concerts. That's where he would have gone and instantly whoever told me that made me feel so super old. But there's some wisdom that comes with age. There's some wisdom. There's also some wisdom that comes with experience, right? One of the things that I love about being a pastor is being able to have premarital counseling sessions with young people when they get married. And this is one of the first things I ask people is how's your faithfulness doing? Like, if you're young and you're in the dating engaged, you know, region of your life or maybe you're younger and you're getting ready for that. Are you practicing faithfulness now? Number one thing I tell young people right before they get married. If you can't be chaste, righteous and faithful before you're married, don't expect your spouse to be chaste, righteous and faithful after you're married. It's literally just one day. One day that made a lot of fun and a party and you're in front of people. But it didn't change your character one bit. If you can't be faithful before you're married, you're going to struggle to be faithful after you're married. Why? Because faithfulness is something that has to become out of you. It has to be born out of you. Men, if you are incapable of being faithful to your wife, you are unfit to lead in the church. It's not me. That's Paul. Just take it and love it, right? So, those are the 4 things I want you to understand about faithfulness. Husbands are built to be faithful. Their faithfulness should bring happiness to their wife. Their faithfulness should be an example of God's ever-loving faithfulness to us. And a husband's faithfulness is a requirement for leadership in a church. That was basically all the preamble so I could get to this text because this is where the rubber really meets the road. Let's go to the book of Ephesians chapter 5 and let's talk about a husband's love for his wife. So, Ephesians chapter 5 verse 25. Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the word and to present her to himself as a radiant church without stain or wrinkle or without any blemish but holy and blameless. Verse 28, in this same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. Now, this passage goes on and yes ladies, we will get back to the Ephesians 5 passages for every woman's favorite verse in the entire Bible next week. But this week, you get to elbow your husband. So, just keep it keep it on lock. First, husbands love your wives just as Christ loved the church. Stop. That's like a sermon all in itself. We could have just read that and prayed because none of us are ever going to be good enough. But let's talk about how did Jesus love the church. Well, first off, you have to understand the church of Jesus Christ theologically started in Acts but it's not really codified. I mean, it started in the gospels but it's not codified until Acts. Until Acts chapter 2, when the Holy Spirit falls, that is the theological birth of the church. Jesus in the gospels is performing his messianic function of trying to draw Israel. He's also performing the function of bringing redemption from original sin from Genesis. But the church itself is born in the book of Acts. So, what does Jesus do? First, you have to understand Jesus lived for the church. Jesus died for the church in order to prepare and serve the church. Now, Jesus also resurrected which is how we could get to 26 where it says make her holy cleansing her by the washing through water and then 27 to present her to himself as a radiant church. Jesus sacrificially loved the church. He is coming back for the church. That's what revelation is all about. Is Jesus coming back to fulfill those outstanding Old Testament promises. One of which is to come back for his girl. He's coming back for the church. I hate it when people like talk bad about the church but say they love Jesus. That's like saying you love me but talk bad about my wife. I don't get how we do that. Husbands, we are called to love our wives as Christ loved the church and then he defines it further. He says he gave himself up for her. Husbands, here's the most unpopular thing I'm going to say to you today. So, just put your seat back at the tray table and catch this on the jaw because that's where it's going. If there is any person in your home that is called to sacrifice for everyone else, it is the husband. If there is any person who's called to put it in gear no matter how tired you are, no matter how worn out you are because there's one person that's designed and built and made to be the servant in the home, it's the husband. Because through that service, through that service sacrificial love, we not only obey scripture but we exemplify the way Jesus did for us what we could not do for ourselves. He died making the final payment. We needed a sinless human being to die for sin that comes out of Genesis but then he didn't just stop there. He could have walked out of the empty tomb and be like, so good to go. I'll catch you later. Catch you on the flip side. But he doesn't do that. He walks out of the tomb, spends 40 more days on earth in his resurrected glorified form, walking around with the disciples and then still tells them, Jerry, don't go anywhere yet. I got another gift for you. Don't go anywhere yet. You're not totally done until you get the gift that my father is going to send to you. Even after resurrection, even after 40 more days of teaching in the glorified body, it still wasn't enough. And one more thing. I'm going to give you the spirit of God to live amongst you. And that's the number one thing that makes the church different from Old Testament Israel. Yes, individual prophets in the Old Testament had the spirit of God rest on them. But the whole church of Jesus gets it. The whole church of Jesus has the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. And that was made possible strictly because of Jesus's sacrificial love for the church. 26, he made her holy. He set her apart. He set her apart as his one and only. Husbands, that's what we do to our wives. Cleansing her by the washing with water through the word. I would argue the washing with water is a reference to the Holy Spirit through the word as a reference to himself. Husbands, our job is to point our families to God. And then ultimately to present her to himself as a radiant church without stain, without wrinkle, without blemish. That's all going to be revelation when the church is presented back to Jesus. And then in 28, Paul says one more thing. In this same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. Now that's a different standard, right? First is husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church. Second is husbands love your wives as you love yourself. I would say practically what this means is husbands, we are never justified in thinking that we are better than our wives. If we go back to Genesis, the way human beings were made, Eve was made as the equal but different in function partner to Adam, right? She was not a lesser creature than him. That I will make a helpmate does not mean a helper like as a subservient, that means equal. Which means in my marriage, my wife is equal in value. She's equal as an image bearer and she is the object of my sacrificial love and service. Why? Because that's what God said. If I could paraphrase, Bill loved Melanie as Christ loved the church. 28. In the same way, Bill loved Melanie like you love yourself. The only thing that does not work for me is Melanie doesn't like ice cream as much as I do. So when I go to the grocery store and I'm like, man, what I really want, I want ice cream. Melanie doesn't want that. And then I bring home the wrong dessert. The challenge that we have, and I just want to be bluntly honest here, the challenge that we have in our culture is that, oh, I would argue over the last probably 60 years in America, there has been this undertone of assault on masculinity. It's come out in a few different ways. First way, feminism tried to teach, to seek for women to be equal to men. I think that's biblical. I think that's a standard. Women are created equal to men. Men and women, we are together. Male and female image bearers of God. That's not an arguable point. But then feminism kept going. Now, women can replace men. So now, you know, you got your boss girl at work and women are replacing men. They don't, I no longer need a man. And then finally, women are better than men. In fact, there was a book written just a few years ago. Looking at the cover at home. Nancy Piercy, The Toxic War on Masculinity. It's like a black, white, and red cover. Fantastic book. What Nancy does is she goes through the history of how feminism had changed and how there was this assault on what it means to be masculine. What it means to be male. I just saw a video recently where someone was talking, it was a social media video. Someone was talking about, they were complaining about toxic masculinity. And so, the interviewer just said, okay, I will agree with you that there is such a thing as toxic masculinity. But could you tell me what's masculine that's not toxic? Like, could you define for me non-toxic masculinity? So, we can see the difference. And as the interview went on, the person gave all of these different traits. You know, gentleness, kindness, comforting, right? What they did was they described female traits. They described femininity. And so, then the interviewer responds back and says, well, I agree with you that gentleness should be a part of masculine character. But does that mean it shouldn't be a part of femininity? And as you watch the interview play out, what they did was they said that all masculinity that's not feminine in nature is toxic. That's the viewpoint. And I would submit that that's probably a pretty good window into the way our culture has this just all out assault. You know, and I agree. There are ways that men can be monsters. But that doesn't mean all men are inherently monsters. We got to go back to Genesis. Male is an image bearer and female is an image bearer. Which means there must be a form of masculinity which reflects God's original design. And there should also be a form of femininity which reflects God's original design. And this is where the apologist in me has to push back a little bit against culture and say, no, our understanding of male and female begins at creation. Not at the conception of culture. Our understanding of male and female begins at design. Not at our desires. And I would say that one of the key aspects of a husband's love specifically for his wife but then I think once you become a father, I think that's going to extend to the children in your family is sacrificial love. I don't think sacrificial love can be labeled as toxically masculine. I think of all of the times I've been in marriage counseling sessions over the years of ministry, the time I've done premarital counseling, I don't think I've ever heard a woman complain that her man sacrifices too much of himself for her. Now, I've totally heard complaints about a man sacrificing too much of himself for things outside his marriage. Whether that be work or whether that be hobbies or whether that be his friends. Yes. But I don't think I've ever heard a woman complain, you know what, Pastor Bill, I need you to talk to my husband. He loves me too much. He spends too much time trying to make me happy. Or the quintessom. He chooses me over everybody else. Yeah. Like if I had to boil all of marriage counseling down to one thing, choose her first. That'd be like my three-word marriage. Just get it tattooed. Choose her first and you're good to go. That little bit, that's not toxically masculine. That's godly masculine. That's the way we were built, the way we were designed. Now men, I also have to say love your wives as Christ loved the church means you are not only to sacrifice for her but you are to lead her. You are to lead her. Now women, I can feel your hair bristling. So just pump the brakes for a minute. I want to say this and I'm going to say it in this sermon so that we can lay some groundwork for next week so I don't get tarred and feathered. The Bible presents a positioning or a leadership structure called male headship. And this has also been horribly attacked in our culture. So I want to define it in this sermon because I'm going to use it next week also. What is male headship? Well, let's start by saying what male headship is not. Male headship is not domineering. Male headship is not abusive. Male headship is not controlling. Male headship is leadership. It is not totalitarian dictatorship. How do I know that? Because the Bible calls me to love my wife the way Christ loved his church. Christ is not the dictator of the church. He is the savior of the church. That doesn't mean he's not also the head of the church. He can be both the head of something and the sacrificial servant of that thing. If Jesus can do it and he calls me to love my wife the same way, then men, we can both be the head of our family and the lead sacrificial servant in our home. One should never exclude the other. So let me give you the real world example of how this works in my family. When Mellie and I got married, we understood, not well, but we understood this concept of male headship and it has been refined and discussed and sharpened and polished over our 20-something year marriage. But here's what it basically boils down to. As the husband in our marriage, I possess what Mellie and I refer to as the husband veto. I have a mythical magical card that I carry with me that allows me the privilege. I can tell women, you got to calm down. I can feel all of the angry stares, right? Just, whoa, watch this. As the husband in my family, it is my job to be the leader. It is not my job to be the dominator. I married a tiger and there's no reason to muzzle her claws. My wife is amazing at many things. She's better than me at many things and I have zero problem admitting that. My oldest daughter Zola knows if I ever lose my wife, I can't balance a checkbook to save my life. The way my wife has a spreadsheet, she knows all the different bills and what they're doing. She moves things around like this and I kid you not, after church, you ask her how much money is in checking account. She knows down to usually the dime and sometimes the penny exactly where everything's at. ADHD bill just cannot do that. ADHD bill can fill his gas in the gas tank, get in the car and not know how much money he just spent. Truth? Like let's just tell the truth. So, I hold on to this thing called the husband veto and it gives me the power if I need to, to veto any family decision. Now, I say family decision because I can't think of many decisions we make that aren't we don't discuss first, discuss the reality of it and decide together. My wife and I have been married for 22 amazing years. Does anybody want to take a guess at the number of times that I have had to use the husband veto? Just shout out a number. Not Micah, not you because you live in my house. Okay, so I got a two, I got a one, three. Nope, it's not zero, it's one. In 22 years of marriage, I have husband vetoed one time and now ladies you're all like oh my god what to happen. Here's the truth, the one time the husband veto was used, it was because Melanie asked me to. It was not because we couldn't come to an agreement and I decided to outrank her and threw my card on the table. That's never happened. Just so you're clear, the amount of chuckle coming out of my wife on the front row, you could darn well know that's not how that went down. And I'll tell you the story so you can see what I mean by leading and sacrificially leading. We're living in Columbus, Georgia, it's 2011. The church that I was working at decided to close. Like it physically just closed its doors, it severanced out all of the staff and now I'm unemployed and we have to decide what to do. I really felt like God wanted me to be a senior pastor of a church. At that point I'd only been worship pastor, discipleship pastor, I mean you know how it goes. Tyler it's like whatever pastor, just fill in the blank, that's what you do that day. And God gave us the opportunity to take our first church in Cape Coral, Florida. But in order to do that, Melanie and I were both working and we were making $96,000 a year as a married couple and we had Micah but we hadn't had Emily yet. So we were doing okay, we owned a house, we both worked and we left Columbus, Georgia making $96,000 a year and we moved to Cape Coral, Florida for the grand total of $30,000 a year. It was a giant sacrifice and I will tell you, full disclosure, Mimi was not happy about this choice. But she looked at me and she said, I can't in good conscience logically the way like you know earth real stuff works, I can't know that this is right. But if you think this is what God wants us to do, I will follow you but you have to tell me, you have to use the words, this is what God wants us to do. That is the one time in our 22 years of marriage I had to play the veto card because Melanie was so uncomfortable with the decision that she said you have to lead this decision. Now you have to know the rest of the story. As soon as Melanie said you have to make this decision, she goes, and because you're making this decision alone, it's all on you to make it work. I'm not responsible for anything that happens once we move. You are solely responsible. If you say this is God, I will trust you because the Bible says to trust you. I don't even know she really trusted me as much as she trusted God, which is fine. But she said you will be on the hook for whatever comes after this no matter what because I can't say that leaving $96,000 for $30,000 is a good choice when we have a brand new baby. But if you think that's what God wants us to do, I said I think God wants me to be a pastor and I think this is the opportunity he's put in front of us. We moved to Cape Coral and we come to find out and this is one of the reasons I like Mr. Crook so much in the way he leads the finances here at Catalyst. I get to my first day at the office and I come to find out that they have not been bringing enough to pay the bills and they've been paying the bills out of the savings account. So on my very first day, there was not enough money in the church bank account to pay my paycheck. That's 100% the story. And praise God. He, you know what? He taught me a whole nother level full of sacrifice. He taught me a whole nother level of how to get it done and he has blessed our family for being able to take that very very odd faithful step and say no I think this is what we're supposed to do. And God has blessed it. And then very shortly after we moved to Cape Coral, Emily came along. And when Emily was born, yep Emily's waving from the sound booth in the back. When Emily was born, she had a congenital cataract in one eye and we took her to the doctor and I don't know if you've ever been there but you're holding your four-month-old or five-week-old and the doctor's throwing around terms like brain tumor and it's immediately scary. And so our pediatrician, we lived in Cape Coral, he sent us to Fort Myers which was like 30-40 minutes away to see a pediatric ophthalmologist because they had better tools to see her eye. And we get there and he's like I can't effectively do this. I'm going to make a phone call and I'm going to send you over to Miami which was on the other side of the state of Florida to this place called the Bascom Palmer Eye Institute. And literally was it two weeks after Em was born? Two weeks after Emily was born, the number one board certified pediatric ophthalmologist in our nation was relocated to Miami, Florida and he did Emily's eye surgeries for free. We were in the right place at the right time for God to care for my daughter in a way that I never could have done. And we went to the Bascom Palmer Eye Institute in Miami which is the premier pediatric ophthalmological surgical place in our entire country. And the number one guy just happened to have been moved to Miami and just happened to want to take on Emily's case pro bono and we just happened to get like Emily was wearing contact lenses when she was six and seven weeks old. Those contact lenses and I kid you not were made by the people who make lenses for NASA's telescopes. That's who was making Emily's contact lenses. There's no way we could have done any of that if we were in Georgia. God moved us and all of my South Florida people I love you. God moved us to the land of old people and eye doctors. Terry, Julie, I love you. We'll come and visit but whoo! And God provided for my daughter long before we ever made it there. Gentlemen, I tell you that story number one because God can do amazing things and he asks you for bravery. He asks you for courage and he asks you to be the kind of leader of your family who will sacrifice. Our leadership doesn't need to be domineering to be leadership. Jesus wasn't domineering to the church. He led the church by sacrificing for her. And that is where I want to leave you is husbands. I need you to lead your wives by sacrificing for her because that's what we and again if I go back it's not good for man to be alone. Husband leaves his wife or leaves his mother and father and cleaves only unto his wife. I can effectively say that man we were designed built and fashioned to be the sacrificial leaders of our homes and to love our wives with a faithfulness and a love that mirrors God's faithfulness for everybody. That's what it means to be a husband.