Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I am the privilege to be the pastor and primary teacher here at our church. Good morning to every one of you who are here on our Wilmington campus and all of you joining us online this morning. I got a quick moment to jump into the live chat this morning and see all of you. Thank you for being a part of our online campus. We are going to be continuing our series on relationships, specifically family and marital relationships. I want to give you just a couple of prefaces to this morning's message. Again, this was a requested topic and I apologize it wasn't done last year. But every year in September I will take requests of what would you like to hear taught from the pulpit. I take those plus my own ideas plus my conversations with the elders and we build an annual teaching plan. This particular topic on marriage and family was one of the most requested topics from last year or year before last. But it got delayed a little bit so I apologize. I also need you to understand that this is a topical series. So on a typical Sunday if you were to worship with us at Catalyst we would go to one specific passage. We would then do the big Bible story, show you how we got to that passage, talk about the history of that passage and then just deep dive verse by verse. I can't do that and try to also show you how the whole Bible deals with a singular topic. Yes, I could go to any one passage to teach a topic but especially with our topic this morning we really need that wider angle lens. We need to zoom back and sort of see all that scripture says so we can better understand. I also need to issue a little bit of a retraction from something I said last week. So I had a conversation with my parents last week about the way I told the go to church green explorer tires on the holy land of the church parking lot story. Yes, let's just needless to say my mother was somewhat displeased with the way I framed the story. So I need to make sure everybody understands that wasn't every week in my home growing up. But it's sure some of you know sometimes you remember certain memories more than other memories. And so I have one or two specific memories and my mom said the way I taught it it sounded like I was referring to every week. I went back and listened and I do think she was right. I think I mischaracterized that. So before I create another opportunity for a different kind of family moment, I would like to apologize. Mom, I'm sorry I told that story somewhat wrong. It wasn't every single week in my home. It was one or two specific events that made me think of that green explorer story. One other disclaimer that I need to give today. We have to talk about a very unpopular verse. We have to talk about a very unpopular verse. I would almost venture to say ladies, this is probably the most disliked or most hated verse in all of the Bible. Wives submit to your husbands. Right. Every woman in the room just went. So here's my disclaimer. First, I don't want you to be afraid of this verse. I don't think you should be. And I think hopefully when I'm done this morning, you won't be. So I want to play a little game about fear so that we can kind of dispel some of that. So does anybody want to tell me what do you think hydrophobia is? Go to hell with that. What's hydrophobia? Fear of water. Fear of water. Totally right. What do you think bibliophobia is? Fear of the Bible. Fear of the Bible. That's great. What do you think hippopotamonstrous coapidillophobia is? Say it again, Ethan. Ethan Glass for the win. Fear of long words. So that had to be the most fearful thing we do all morning. Okay. So now we can take a break. We can dial it down. I want to talk to you. And again, I need to point out that last week we talked about husbandry. Right. And husbandry is the art and the act of husband. Unfortunately, ladies, there is no feminine version of the word husbandry in modern day English. So I would like to take the privilege of my pulpit and make a new English word today. I would like to create the word wifery. Wifery is the companion word to husbandry, at least in the New International Bill dictionary. So when I say wifery, I am talking about the art and the state of being a wife in the same way that husbandry is the art or state of being a husband. So first, let's talk about what is a wife. A wife is any married woman. I'm sure that was a shocker. Right. A wife is any married woman. And just like last week when we looked at the Hebrew words for man and husband and then we look at the Hebrew words for woman and wife, we find that they are exactly the same. So the word isha in Hebrew is both woman and wife. Both words in our English language are the same word in the Hebrew language. If I go to the Greek, gyne or gine, right, we get lots of female oriented words that start with GYN, right? That is because the Greek word, gyne or gine, depending on how you pronounce it, literally means woman or wife. So in the Hebrew language and in the Greek language, women and wives are the same word. Those of you who may be some old school saints, you know the debate about female deacons? All comes down to that word because woman and wife is the same word in Greek. So it comes to the context of that verse and where you can tell me on your connect card. So I'd like to offer you my expanded definition of what a wife is. And then I would like to show you in the scripture how I landed on that definition and hopefully demystify and maybe unafraid a little bit of what this text really means. So a wife is a female image bearer who inherited a desire to resist her husband's leadership. I want to read that again because this is really key to the way I'm going to present these texts. A wife is a female image bearer who inherited a desire to resist her husband's leadership. And I'll explain as we go through this morning how I got to that point. So the first thing I would also like to say is as another disclaimer, a lot of disclaimers this week. I want to say upfront ladies, submission does not include subservience or silence. Submission does not include subservience or silence. And when I get to the end of my sermon today, I'm going to answer the question, what are the limits of a wife's submission? Because I don't think we ever talk about that. We teach women they're supposed to submit, but we don't show them where in the Bible the limits of that submission are. Submission does not include subservience. That's why we started out our definition female image bearer. Male image bearer, female image bearer, we're the same. But it also does not include silence. So let me show you how I arrived at that definition. If you brought your Bibles with you or you have our Catalyst app, you can just launch the app and tap the Bible button that's in the middle in the bottom of your screen. I want you to go with me to Genesis chapter 2 verse 18. We can even take the big Bible story to get here. Ready? In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Boom, we're there. Congratulations. Genesis chapter 2 verse 18. I know we already looked at this, but I need to use it to establish where we're going. Genesis chapter 2 verse 18 reads this way. The Lord God said, It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him. Now, I know we dove into that in the marriage sermon. We understood that men are designed to be husbands. That also means lady. Women are designed to be wives. But it also means that they are of equal value. Specifically, I want to drive in first. The fact that man is not good. If man is designed for marriage and men are designed to marry women, then by logical extension, women are designed for marriage. With me so far. Not only are women designed for marriage, but I need to harp on this word helper. Because again, I've seen it mistaught so many times by well-meaning Christians. Listen, there are not well-meaning Christians. There are some super over-shovanistic male preachers who will take some of these words and bend them so far out of context that they no longer carry the original meaning. That's why I needed to start my definition for you. Women, wives are female image bearers. Women and men, male humans and female humans, are of equal value in the eyes of God. We were created that way on purpose. I mean, I don't really have to go any farther. Dudes, it's not good for us to be alone. We were designed for this. Now, there are some who are called to singleness, yes, but just the fact that there are exceptions means there are rules. You can't have an exception if it's not an exception to an existing rule. The word azar, which is the Hebrew word that's translated helper in our verse in 2.18, specifically means a partner of equal value but different function. And also I need you to understand Genesis 2 is pre-fall. Genesis 1 and Genesis 2 are the only two chapters of the Bible we get in the beginning that show us what God's design for creation was before sin corrupted it. So here in Genesis 2, prior to sin corrupting creation, Eve was created as a partner of equal value but different in function. And not only that, but she was created as equal partner, different function, to be, and there's an adjective here, suitable. So suitable is the adjective that is modifying the word helper, which means suitable, Eve was made for Adam. Female was made for male, male for female. They were made for each other. Remember when we talked in marriage, we said this is one of our great strengths from the creationist perspective. If you want to be an evolutionist, you not only have to prove, or at least argue why it's plausible that life came out of non-life, then you have to prove how did DNA and coding come out, how did intelligence come out of non-intelligence, but then you've got to ask yourself why did evolution choose sexual reproduction as the means of reproduction for our planet? It makes no sense. Asexual reproduction is a way better choice, right? One creature just copies its DNA and makes another creature. Here in the scriptures tell us specifically, sexual reproduction was created by God on purpose, was created for marriage on purpose. So that's all in 2.18. Women are equal, partner, different, function, made to match. Male with female, each with each other, made to match. And I need you to understand that, because now I want you to turn to the very next chapter and go to Genesis 3, verse 16. In my opinion, this verse right here is the key text to understanding why I've submitted to your husbands. If you don't get this or see how this relates to what's coming, I think you will misunderstand and misinterpret. And hopefully I can present something to you this morning that perhaps widens your thinking about scripture. So the second thing I need you to understand is sin has damaged the woman's role in marriage. Women were designed to be equal, partner, different, function. But once we get to Genesis 3, sin has corrupted God's creation. And now we are not living in the same creation that God made on day one or day two or day three or day four or day five. Can I tell you how many days they were in the garden before the fall? No. The Bible doesn't say that. It just tells me this moment in time. So let's take a look at Genesis chapter 3, verse 16. Just so you understand, as we punch into this verse, Adam and Eve are in the garden. They have been tempted, they have responded to temptation, and now God is doling out the consequences for the sin of Eden. And in this verse, we see the consequences of Eve's sin. There are three sets of consequences given out. The serpent receives consequences, then Eve receives consequences, and then Adam receives consequences. I want to focus on Eve's consequences. Here we go. Genesis chapter 3, verse 16. Woman, meaning Eve, because she's literally the only woman on planet Earth at this moment. I will make your pains in childbearing very severe. With painful labor you will give birth to children. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. Stop. Let's just take just this verse. I want to break it down into two things. Notice that God gives two separate consequences because of Eve's willful volition to sin. Both consequences of Eve's sin play out in the lives of female human beings. If you look in all of Genesis 3, just to give you a basic outline, we see that sin occurs. The serpent's consequences are born by serpents. Eve's consequences are born by all female humans to come after her. Adam's consequences are not born on all male humans to come after him. Adam's consequences are born in creation itself. Creation now grows thorns and thistles. Why? Because it was a step off of that. Now Adam had to work to feed his family. But the consequences of Adam's sin rest in creation itself, which is why if we looked at the whole Bible, we see God made creation, then it got corrupted. Jesus perched redemption at Calvary, but restoration is still coming in Revelation. So that's kind of the big story, if I needed that. But here's what I need you to see. Ladies, if you are a female human being, if your DNA code is XY, you have inherited two things because of the sin of Eden. Excuse me, XX, thank you. XY is male. That's why I don't teach science. My wife is the homeschool teacher. Right there. That's a perfect example of why Pastor Bill is not the homeschool teacher. So female human beings, you have inherited two consequences of Eve's sin. The first, for any mother who has had a child, she has already experienced this. The pain of childbearing. And all the women said, amen. Exactly. A couple of you are all like, woo! Right? That is a built-in thing to our culture. Every woman understands that. And every woman is there for other women when they go through that. It's a standard part of our culture. It's not hidden. You all understand it. Hopefully you all also understand. Now, can I tell you for certain that childbearing was a sin? That childbearing was zero pain prior to sin. No, I cannot. Because if we look at the text of this verse, what the Lord says is, I will make your pains in childbearing very severe. It doesn't say that Eve's childbearing was completely painless. What it does say is, because of the consequences of the sin of Eden, one of the things that all female humans will endure is a severity in pain for childbearing. It doesn't say that Eve's childbearing was painless. With painful labor, you will give birth to children. The other thing I need you to remember is, what was God's very first command to Adam and Eve? Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it. What does that include? Make babies, have babies, do it again. Rinse, repeat. Make baby, have baby, rinse, repeat. Which means the very first consequence of Eve's sin is experienced in her obedience to God. The very first consequence of Eve's sin is experienced in her obedience to God's design and direction for creation. If Eve had said, well fine, I'm not having no kids, right? We wouldn't be here. The entire Bible, Jesus would have never been born. God would have never made a covenant with Israel. It was with in obedience to God that Eve lived out the consequences of her sin. And since that point, every female human who has had children has experienced the consequences of this within their relationship with God. So that is the first part of the consequence of sin. The second sentence in this verse, vitally important. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. Two key verbs you need to understand in this sentence. The first is the word desire, and the second is the word rule. I'd like to take them in separate instances. So first, the word desire, meaning Eve's desire. The word desire literally translates to dominate or to control. If you need another example of it, please turn to the very next chapter. When God is speaking to Cain, he says, sin is crouching at your door, and it desires to have you. Same exact Hebrew verb. Sin is crouching at the door, and it desires to dominate you. Ladies, I need you to understand that ever since Eden, women, all female humans, have inherited an innate desire to rebel and dominate their male partners. If you believe me that you inherited the pain of childbirth consequence, and any woman who's ever had a child has experienced that consequence, it's the same verse, ladies. It's the same exact text. If one is true, the other is also true. Every single female human who has ever lived since Eve has inherited an innate inborn desire to dominate her household, to preside over her household rather than partner with her husband. Now, that does not mean that every single woman disobeys this desire. But I would just be so remiss if I didn't point out the reality that since we live in a corrupt version of creation, we do not live in Eden. We do not live in God's perfect creation. We live in a corrupted creation. Every single female human has inherited an innate desire to dominate male leadership. But did you also notice the second part here? Gentlemen, just so we're clear, this is not the moment to elbow your wife. Just so everybody's clear. Wives are free to turn to their husbands and make comments. Gents, don't elbow your wife here. This is just a tip for a happy marriage. Your desire will be for your husband. Women, your desire is to dominate your husband. And he will rule over you. Here's another text that has just been, in my opinion, so mistaught. So let's rewind here. Let's just establish a couple facts. Are women image bearers of God? Yes. Are men image bearers of God? Yes. Did sin mar or scratch the image of God on humanity? Yes. But did sin erase the image of God on humanity? Which means if sin did not erase the image of God on humanity, and we established that women are image bearers, then sin did not erase God's image in women. Nor did it erase God's image in men. So when I get to this, and he will rule over you, I need you to understand what it does mean and what it doesn't mean. Women, it does not mean that men are to be domineering tyrants. In fact, Hebrew has a completely different word. When we get into the Old Testament and we talk about wicked kings who dominated their populace, there's a totally different word for that. The word rule here in this verse more means the way a government directs and leads a population, not the way a tyrant controls a population. So when we get to this word rule, here's what I need you to understand. Pre-sin, it was Adam's job to be the leader of his family, not the tyrant of his family. Post-sin, that job hasn't changed. Men, it is still our challenge to lead our families. But post the sin of Eden, we now have to live out our God-given challenge to be leaders in a world in which the wives that we have married are innately born and bred to rebel against our leadership and to replace our leadership. If we don't understand the way Genesis 3 has radically changed God's design for marriage, we will misapply all of Paul's instructions because Paul is writing in a fallen world, not a pre-fall world. So we have to understand how did marriage change. So let's spell it out. We've been built, listen, this entire series was built for me to survive this sermon. So just watch. God's design is family, right? Families are began at marriage. Husbands are designed as equal partner, but their responsibility is to lead. Women were built to be an equal partner with a different function. Men cannot bear children, I mean, excuse me, men cannot bear children, women can. It is not, so the idea of male, in biblical terms we call it headship. Male headship, not male dictatorship. But here's what we've done. As humans, we are fallen creatures. So, and throughout all of human history, you can literally just pick a society. Men, we were born and made to be leaders. And so we have this innate desire to want to lead. And women, now because of the consequences of sin, you inherit an innate internal desire to dominate your husband rather than to follow him. So then the man, if he's not being godly, what does he do? In response, he uses the only tool at his disposal to make you submit. Male strength. It is the only tool in the male arsenal, right? Let's just be honest, dudes, we are not smarter than women. But we have one thing at our disposal. And what have we seen throughout human history? Men who decided to be tyrants instead of leaders, using their god-given strength and size and power to dominate women. And what does that do? Well, that causes women to dig their heels in even further into their desire to rebel and dominate male leadership. And so then feminism comes back and strikes hard. So what do men do? Men go, well, the only thing I have left is strength. I guess I'll have to dominate more. And back and forth and back and forth. And all we are doing is watch Eden destroy marriages. That is where society is. And if I don't explain all of that clearly, now that we're going to move into the Ephesians passage, I have to properly show you what Paul is saying in the context of corrupt creation, where men are supposed to lead, but women are born to rebel. Was this God's design for marriage? No. What was God's design for marriage? Equal partners and different functions. That's God's design for marriage. But because of sin, you and I now have to overcome certain challenges that did not exist in Genesis 1 and 2. So now, with all of that as the pretext to understand the situation, now let's turn to Ephesians chapter 5. Now I want to look at what exactly Paul's instructions are for Christian households and how do they apply. I actually want to read Ephesians chapter 5, 21 all the way down to 33. Even though I'm not going to use all of it this morning, I need you to see the whole section so that when I point out the things I want to point out, you can see how it relates to the whole piece. So Ephesians chapter 5, beginning in verse 21 and going all the way to 33. Here we go. Wives, submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands as you do to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church, his body, for which he is the Savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything. Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the word and to present her to himself as a radiant church without stain or wrinkle or any blemish, but holy and blameless. In the same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. After all, no one ever hated their own body, but they feed and care for their body just as Christ does the church. For we are members of his body. For this reason, a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh. This is a profound mystery, but I am talking about Christ and the church. 33. However, each one of you must also love his wife as he loves himself, and the wife must respect her husband. So that's the whole section. I'm not going to use all of that this morning. Let's rewind back to verse 21. The first thing I need you to see, and this is this every time. So here, just I need everybody to do this. The next time somebody brings up wives submit to your husbands, before you let them expound on that verse, you ask them what's the preceding verse. The verse right before it. 21. Submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. So anybody who tries to teach you how wives should submit to their husbands, and doesn't mention that the very first, the very verse preceding that verse says that husbands should submit to wives and wives should submit to husbands, don't listen. Because they're already taking it somewhere. It shouldn't go. 21 is super clear. Submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. Now I do want to point out, depending on what Bible translation you are looking at, there might be a break in the text. Sometimes people put the header over verse 21, so 21 is connected to 22, and some different translations put a new header between 21 and 22, giving the illusion that 21 is related to 20, but not related to 22. Everybody understands that there were no chapter verse notations when Paul wrote the book of Ephesians. So do not get distracted by the way the letters are designed on your page. All of that is done afterwards by a publishing company. The headers, the verse numbers, the chapter numbers, any of the footnotes in the bottom, none of that is the word of God. All of that is added later for us to be able to study together, so I can say, let's turn to Ephesians 5, verse 21, and I'm not saying, okay, well in Jim's Bible that's page 325, and Mel's Bible that's page 2. No. None of that is scriptural even though it's biblical. It's in the Bible, but it's not the word of God. And if you just read the whole chapter, just ask yourself, do you really think that 21 isn't related to 20? You would have to fully stand on the idea that submit to one another out of reverence for Christ is not related to wives submit yourselves to your husbands. What's also interesting, if you would like to take that road, if you want to really stand on it, you've got another problem. The verb to submit does not exist in the Greek in verse 21. Let me say that again. The verb to submit doesn't exist at all in the Greek text of verse 21. Excuse me, of verse 22, I apologize. It literally reads wives to your own husbands as you do the Lord. So if you disconnect, submit to one another from wives to your husbands, then wives to your husbands doesn't make a lot of sense. So in the Greek text, I just don't think there's any way to argue it. We must first understand that wives submit to your own husbands takes place within, submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. So what does that mean? That means Paul is speaking about marriage in its original design in Genesis 1 and Genesis 2. We are to submit to one another. We are to partner together as equal image bearers of different functions. Exactly the way marriage was designed. Then he now is going to expound on what does submit to one another out of our reverence for Christ look like. And what it looks like is women or wives, in fact, you can't have a woman who's not a wife who has a husband. So that's why we can use the word wives here. Wives to your own husbands as you do the Lord. So let me break this down to make it really clear. First, the word submit means choose to be subject to. Choose to be subject to. Your women, your free will is never restricted in your marriage. You have to choose to be subject to your husband. Choose to follow his leadership. The very life partner that is in covenant relationship with you. However, I really want to harp in on as you do to the Lord because in English it sounds like Paul is saying wives should submit to their husbands in the same way that they submit to God. Meaning wives should give their husbands some sort of godlike authority at home. Gentlemen, pump the brakes. It's not what that verse says. And here's how I can tell you that because the preceding verse requires that every husbands and wives submit to one another mutually out of their reverence for Christ. If we are part of the body of Christ and he is the head, we both submit to one another because that's what the boss said to do. Men are not the gods of their homes. Let me just ask you a simple question. Why do we choose to submit to Christ? I would submit to you. I submit to Christ not only because he's God, that is true, but I submit to Christ for what he has done for me. He is my king. He gave his life to provide with me for me something I could never provide for myself. I'll spend the rest of my life giving him all that I have, which is tiddly bits in comparison to what he already has. He doesn't need my worship. He desires my friendship and my worship and my submission and my obedience. Why? Because of all that he's done for me. That's how wife-ery should work. Let me just rephrase this sentence. Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands because you love him and all the things he does for you. Does that sound a little easier than as to the Lord? Wives, you are not commanded to treat your husbands as if they are the god of your home realm. There is only one king. There is only one god. It is Christ and, gents, it is not us. But even if you wanted to do that, this is where I have to remind you of Genesis chapter 3. Why does Paul have to explicitly tell female humans to choose to submit to their husbands? Because in Genesis 3, every female human inherited a desire to dominate her husband. And Paul is trying to put us back on track to the way real godly women do. Which is, yes, the man is supposed to lead and he's supposed to lead through sacrifice and service. And men, I harped on you last week just reminding you that that's the fact. But if we understand that marriage in our corrupt world is not the way God originally designed it, then it's very easy to say the reason wives are directed to choose to submit is because the consequences of sin Now push wives to preside over their families rather than partner with their husbands. And there are plenty of weak spined men who let you get away with it. Gents, that one's on us. And listen, I married an amazing tiger. I know that. I married a powerful woman. I married a strong leader. I married, she's great at finance. I married a woman who's a great lawyer. I married a woman who's a great lawyer. I married, she's great at finance. She's great at homeschooling. She's great at correcting me when I say stupid stuff. You don't need to muzzle your wife. You need to partner with her. You know the other thing I also know, and my children are in the room, so they would agree with me on this. Melanie and I can never have a nose to nose battle. That will be World War Four. You know why? Because we don't back down. We don't back down to each other, and we sure enough don't back down to anybody outside of our marriage. So if Melanie and I went head to head, it would be the end of life on this planet. But you know what's great about that? Melanie and I, side by side, can take on anything. When I was first, my very first ministry position, the pastor had this phrase. He used to say it all the time. And to be perfectly honest with you, it was great at my skin. He'd say, all I need is me, my wife, and Jesus. And he would use it in connotation to let me know that as a subordinate staff member, he could just replace me if he needed it. All he needed was me, my wife, and Jesus. But I gotta say, Eugene's comment has become more and more true the longer we've been married. All I need is me, my wife, and Jesus. If you make it past her fangs and her talons, I will mop up whatever little bit of you is left. But I don't need to dominate my wife. I need to direct all of that energy into both of us following Christ together. Am I still required by scripture to lead my family? Yes. But do you know something that this verse does not say? That I feel like it gets interpreted that way a lot? It's specific, let me just read it again. Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands. You know what it doesn't say? Husbands, make your wives submit. It doesn't say that. Gents, we cannot use this verse and say you're not being submissive. Submit. No. If you can't get your wife to submit, you're leading wrong. Like I'm sorry, it's got a sting on both sides to be true. Men, if your wife struggles to submit to your leadership, I blame you, not her. If you are doing everything you can, absolutely everything, to sacrifice, to give up your very life for her provision, remember last week for her happiness, Deuteronomy? If you're doing all of that and your wife still struggles with the inheritance of Eden, then you come and talk to me. Okay? Then I can bring other godly women around her and help find out what's broken in her that's causing her to resist your leadership. But I got to say first and foremost, does anybody in this room struggle with the idea that we have to submit to Christ? No. He is the head of the church. We collectively, and I know this one's weird for men, but men collectively along with every other Christian, we are the bride of Christ. Do we struggle to submit to the one who gave his life for us? No. And I would submit in all the conversations I've had with my wife and with my daughters, the one thing I have learned, and I've been alive for 44 years, I've learned one thing about women. That's it. That's all I got. No, two things. They got longer hair, right? Most of them have longer hair than me. And number two, at the end of the day, one of the deepest desires that's written in almost every single female human, she wants to be chosen. That's why all of our fairy tales, all those typical classic fairy tales of the man riding the knight in shining armor and going through the dark forest and slaying the dragon and climbing the tower to rescue the princess. Why? Because he chose her over all others. And I usually bring that up when I'm doing wedding ceremonies. Gents, it's your job to choose her over all others for the rest of your life. And if you can do that, if you can choose her over all others for the rest of your life, I just have to submit to you, it's not hard to draw godly submission out of a godly woman. It's hard to draw worldly submission out of a godly woman, because she's not supposed to do that. Again, I started with submission does not include subservience or silence. So 22, wives submit to your own husbands as you do to the Lord. They are not the god of your home. You are to submit to him because you love him and you are in covenant relationship with him. And it is his job to lead you. And let's just be perfectly honest, that doesn't mean it's his job to make every decision. That's a dominant tyrant that's not a loving husband. Clear example, and my oldest daughter is out of town, but if she was in here in this moment, she would amen this comment. I can't balance a checkbook to save my life, right? I can't. Melanie can look at the checkbook and somehow like Tony Stark, she's got this like holographic brain in front of her. And she can see every single bill and when it's due, what time it is, and this. And she makes all these dots. And she can tell you usually down to the dime or down to the penny, how much money is in our checking account on any given day. There is no way ADHD pastor bill is ever going to do that. In the 20-some years we've married, how many times have I tried to run the finances twice? I think I made it a week each time. And I'm an intelligent person, but that's just not something I can do. So, I give it to my wife. And I say, honey, how much do you need to do everything you need to do for the family, for the house, for the kids? It's my job. So, I look at it. I'm accounts receivable. I got to bring the money in for the home business. She's accounts payable. She makes sure that the funds that come in go everywhere it needs to go, so that everybody has the stuff they need. And the girls have money for theater and Mike has got money for the meta subscription. She doles it out and it's my job to go dig it up. Okay. That sounds an awful lot like me, like being partners and allowing each other to work their strengths to the best of their ability. I also need you to notice this. Ladies, if you'll look at your Bibles for a second. Verse 21 talks about mutual submission. Verse 22 talks about wives submit to their husbands. Then 23 is about husband. 24 is about husband. 25 is about husband. 26 is about husband. 27 is about how the husband is going to present the wife, so still about the husband. 28 is about the husband. 29 is about the husband. 30 is about all of us because we're all members of one body. And then 31 goes back and references Genesis 2. That's how I know these two texts belong together. So there's a tie in there. And then 32 lets us know that everything we see about marriage is still supposed to be an analogy for Christ. And then again in 33, wives must respect her husband. That word respect literally means to choose to show reverence for. You're not showing reverence for the fact that he's a more valuable image bearer than you. That's false. Your husband is not more valuable than you. He is of equal value, different function. His function is to lead your family towards Christ. That is the man's function. That does not mean he's a more valuable image bearer. That does not mean he's the God at home. That does not mean that he in any way should be less than Christ-like. In fact, if I take all of these verses, the lion's share of these verses are about the way men should treat their wives. Even though every time we come to this passage, ladies, I know the hair on the back of your neck bristles. Because you know I got to read that verse that says wives submit to your husbands. The only reason you have to be corrected with that verse is because Eve and Eden allowed you to inherit an innate desire to dominate your husband rather than be his partner. And men, the only reason you need to know that is you have to find a way to lead your wife. That's your job. Your creation level directive to lead your family to Christ. To lead your family in the learning and the worship of God. You can go to Deuteronomy 5 and Nisheema when you get up and when you're walking on the road. It was the man's job to teach his children. Even in Eden, Adam correctly taught Eve God's instructions. When she repeats it to the serpent, if you read Genesis 1, 2, and 3, what she says to the serpent, God told Adam before he made Eve. So that means either A, God repeated it all to Eve or B, Adam instructed Eve. Either way, Eve had to learn the right way to worship God. And the only person who was there was either God or Adam. So what does all of this mean in the real world? How do we live this out? How should a wife, and here's the big question. Should a wife submit to a husband that does not submit to scripture? Ladies, I know half of you are thinking that question in the back of your mind. Should a wife submit to a husband that does not submit to scripture? My answer is yes, but. Yes, but there are limits. And my wife challenged me this week as I was trying to write this message. Can I find a biblical example of how a wife who is being mistreated has any sort of recourse biblically? Well, guess what? There's an entire chapter in the book of Deuteronomy that specifically lays out protections for wives in marriage. So those of you who are interested, it's Deuteronomy chapter 22. It's in the middle of the book of Deuteronomy, 22 verses 13 to 30. It gives six different cases, and I'm just going to describe the cases to you rather than read it all. It gives six different cases of women being mistreated by men and what the proper response is. So in case number one, a husband is tired of his wife. He wants to get rid of her, but he needs a reason to divorce her. So he slanders her and claims that she was not a virgin when they got married, which in their culture was a major no-no. It's against the law. So in case number one, a wife is slandered by a husband who just wants to get rid of her. And the way that the case is adjudicated is they are to go to the elders at the gate. I need to explain this term so we can properly apply it. In the Old Testament times, they lived in towns and villages, and the seat at the gate is the seat of both religious and civil authority, right? Just like in our society today, what do you call the leader of a city? A mayor. What do you call the leader of a state? A governor, right? Different locales or areas had leaders. Well, in this time, the leaders were a group of elders who met at the city gate, and they would make both the civil decisions and the spiritual decisions. So the elders at the gate represent civil and spiritual authority. The slandered wife has the right to go to the elders at the gate and say, my husband is slandering my character. He is claiming that I was not pure when I married him, and I need defense. The elders at the gate would go, all right, we hear you. Where's your dad? And here's where, let's just be honest, it gets a little icky. So the father of the bride keeps the bedsheets from the honeymoon night at his house. Yep, and everybody just went, aww. Keep in mind a couple of things. Number one, most likely you have younger brides this far back in time, and so the father of the bride, they wait outside the bedroom tent for them to consummate their marriage, and then the father of the bride takes the bedsheets home with him and stores them for safekeeping. Because in this case right here in Deuteronomy 22, right, the dad shows up to the town gate with the bloody bedsheets that prove her hymen was intact when they got married, and says, no, my daughter was pure. That's what happens. And then if you continue reading, the husband who tried to slander his wife not only has to pay restitution twice the bride price that he paid for in the first place. So let's just say for kicks that a bride costs 25 shekels. The husband who's trying to malign his wife now has to pay twice that. And he is never again allowed to apply for divorce no matter the cause. So the woman is completely defended by the elders at the gate and by her father. Now in case number two, same accusation, except this time the wife was actually not a virgin when she got married. She was a promiscuous young woman, and the family of the bride concealed that and lied to the family of the groom. In this case, I'm sorry, but the promiscuous girl is stoned to death at the door of her father's house. You can read it, I promise it's there, and it literally says to splot out this evil from Israel. And here's what's sad. The promiscuous girl may have never told the dad that she had sex before she was married, but he still has to listen to her be killed at the front door of his house. That's how much purity was important. So case number three, there's an unfaithful wife. So cases one and two are related. Cases three is the wife actually cheats on the husband. The wife physically goes out and has an extramarital liaison. Sorry, the wife and whoever she slept with, both of you all get snapped off. You die. That's the way it goes. Case number four and number five are also related. And I would argue that these really, case numbers four and five are probably talking about rape. So the idea that rape is a new thing, no, it does exist. Case number four is the case of a man who uses force to have sexual relations with an engaged woman, which engaged in their time married, right? You're already a wife, even though you haven't consummated your marriage, you're a wife. So in case number four, a man in a town, in a city, takes control physically of a woman and has sex with her in the middle of the city and stays quiet. The woman in this instance remains silent. They are both executed. You know why? And it specifically says here, because she remained silent, her silence was her complicitness. But then they switch the script. Case number five, same exact scenario, but they change the setting. And now it's a man who physically takes control of a woman out in the country. And it specifically says, the woman has done no wrong, for if she cried for help, no one heard her. See, it's not rape if the woman couldn't fight, or it is rape if the woman couldn't fight back, but it's not sin. She is completely let off. She was in the country. No one heard her screams. So what does that tell you? In both instances, in the case of rape in the city, where the woman was silent and no one heard her, and in the rape in the country, where the woman wasn't silent and no one heard her, you know what's assumed? That culture protects rape victims. It's assumed that the elders at the gate, or the culture around these liaisons, were there to protect women from being mistreated by men. And then in the final case, which is case number six, is an unmarried, unengaged rape victim. Again, the woman is seen as completely innocent and non-complicit. But in case number six, the man is responsible to provide for that unmarried girl for the rest of her life, should her parents receive that provision. Because, you have to understand, in this day and time, if a young woman is violently raped, she no longer is pure and no longer able to attract a good husband. So if you were going to rape somebody, you're basically paying for her as a wife for the rest of her natural life and her parents. In all six of these cases, I see two similarities. The first similarity I see, and this is the important one, the elders at the gate were the authority of defense for women who were abused and mistreated. It's assumed that the elders at the gate, when the father in case number one brings the bloody bedsheets to the defense of his daughter, the elders at the gate adjudicate the case. It's assumed that the elders at the gate protect the woman because they're the ones who adjudicate it. When you get down to the unfaithful wife, it's the elders of the gate that adjudicate the execution. When you get down to the case of rape turning into a liaison because the woman remains silent, it was assumed then that she was okay with the secret liaison in the city. If she had screamed out, then she would have been innocent. But because she didn't scream out, you can't argue. See that? And then in case number five, the girl who was raped in the country, it's assumed that she screamed and no one heard her. In all of those cases, the elders at the gate were the authority of appeal when abuse happens in marriage. In fact, even the unmarried rape victim in case number six, they're still the authority of appeal. The reason that I said in the beginning, submission does not include silence, is I feel, and this is my personal opinion, I feel that verses like wives submit to your husbands have been used as a battering ram against evangelical women to put up with and tolerate. They're required to submit because scripture says so, but their husbands can act like jack wagons. I can't tell you that that's a good thing. I grew up in a family of strong women. I guarantee you if my grandpop, his name was Walter, Walter, Walter knew how to throw it. He knew how to dish it. But my grandma could slap him in place in a heartbeat. Then I grew up in my family with my mom and my dad and my aunt Donna. My mom is a powerfully strong woman. I married a powerfully strong woman. My mother-in-law is a powerfully strong woman. I grew up in a family of women who don't just sit back and take it. They're not going to. They're going to stand up and they're going to fight. But not all women are like that. I've found that there are some women who have temperate, more tempered climates than the women in my family. That's okay. Here's what I want you to understand. Specifically, ladies, if I'm looking for a modern day analogy, who are the elders at the gate in our society today? I think you have two options. So I want to say this very pointedly and very clearly. If you are being abused in your marriage, you do not have to remain silent. Wives submit to your husbands should have never included silence. If you are being abused physically, verbally, sexually, financially, fill in the blank with whatever L-I word you need, you have two choices. A, you are always allowed to appeal to the actual governmental authority. That's the elders at the gate, the civil authority. If you're being physically abused, please don't leave church today. Stay here. We have a bunch of sheepdogs. We will protect you. We will get the law enforcement involved. If you are being abused verbally or spiritually, the other authority is the elders of the church. If I fast forward to the New Testament, it's the elders of the church who are responsible to adjudicate discipline within the body of Christ. So let me say this. Now, I need to say that just because you are unhappy with the choice of your husband's shirt color, that's not abuse, right? So let's say that there are limits. It is a husband's job to make you happy, but just because you aren't happy on a Tuesday doesn't necessarily make it abuse. But just because you're not happy doesn't mean it's not, right? Just because I'm paranoid doesn't mean I'm wrong. It is the job of the elders of the church to protect Christian women in their marriages. So if you are here, if you are online, or if you are watching this sermon after the fact, and you feel that you are being abused in your marriage, tell me on your connect card. It is the job of the elders to lead the men in this church to leading their wives correctly. And I can tell you, we had men's fraternity last Wednesday, and there was a small group of us downstairs in the fellowship, and man, it got raw. It got really raw and nitty gritty about where we are as men in our lives, in our marriages, in our spiritual growth, where we need help. And everyone was capable, at least the men who were there that night, and several of you were in this room so you all can witness this, there was a spiritual vulnerability that took place that I think was very powerful. One of the things that men in our culture don't do well is vulnerability. The problem is, everybody likes the classic verse, iron sharpens what? Iron sharpens iron. Has anybody ever tried to take out their knife and sharpen it without actually taking the blade out? Like if I just took my pocket knife and I did this against the sharpener, am I actually sharpening the blade? No, if you had a fixed blade, and I meant to bring one today and I forgot, and it was still in the sheath, and you took the whole sheath, and you scraped it across the sharpener, are you actually sharpening the knife? No, you're going through the motions to pretend like you look like you're sharpening. But until you take that joker out, and you put it against something harder than itself, and you pull it, and it's great. I'm not going to cut my hand, I promise. Some of you are looking like, oh yeah. Unless you take the knife and you place it against a surface that will not budge, and that will not let it get away with its imperfections, and then you start scraping, then you'll hone it to a fine edge. I sharpen all of my pocket knives at least once every other week. I got to pick the time to do it when my wife's not in the bedroom because she really hates the sound. But I can tell you this, I sharpen my pocket knife because when I need a tool, I need it to work right. And gentlemen, ladies, this is your moment. I don't know if your husband is a tool or is just a tool in your home, right? Gentlemen, that's going to be on you. All the men, that's your Connect card. Am I a tool or am I my wife's tool? I don't know. And I make light of this because this is a serious question that I just don't feel is shared correctly. Wives, you have an innate desire to preside over your home, and that's your husband's job. And gents, you have an innate built-in created mandate to lead, which means you have to stand up against that Edenic desire that your wife has. But you can't do it in your strength. If you attempt to stand up and make your wife submit using earthly strength, you're just going to cause a fight. Just trust me, that's what happens. And all the women said, amen. That's right. Men, if you attempt to dominate in your earthly strength, you will create strife in your marriage. But if you attempt to lead in sacrificial love and faithfulness, you can draw godly submission out of your wife. That's what wives submit to your husbands looks like in its full context. And that's what I believe the right answer is to how do we answer should a wife submit, even if her husband does not submit. So here's your takeaway as I bring this in for a landing. Women are made for marriage partnership, but inherited a desire to dominate their husband's leadership. If you're a wife, I need you to understand that there are going to be moments. And you might have even felt it during the sermon. Like when I say the word submit here, let's just do an exercise. Men, do me a favor, remain silent and do not move your elbows. Women, say the word submit. How many of you the hair on the back of your neck stood up just saying it? Right? Come on, you can be honest, right? Ah, ah. You have an innate desire within you that's the consequence of sin and that is part of the fallen world that we live in. And I would be remiss if I didn't tell you that sometimes you're going to feel that bristling against your husband's leadership. And it's not that he's wrong. I mean, he might be wrong. Ladies, give me wrong. Men can be wrong. We do it all the time. But every now and again, you're going to bristle against his leadership because of the sin of Eden. And you need to feel that. You need to feel you need to notice it. And you need to start learning the difference between when you're bristling because your husband's in a jack wagon. And when you're bristling because you inherited a propensity to dominate that you must resist. And that is the job of a Christian wife.