Well, welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being a part of our service today. Whether you are here joining us on our Wilmington campus or you're part of our online family, thank you for being a part and worshipping with us. We are in the midst of a series on relationships, specifically relationships within marriage and family. And I want to go ahead and give you the two prefaces, I guess, the prefaces that need to be had. First is every year in September I take sermon requests. People who, I feel like I'm getting louder, right? And so this is one of those topics that was requested and it got pushed a year because our study of Revelation took a little longer than it should have and so that's why it's this year instead of last year. Second, this is a topical series so some messages will have lots of Bible verses from all over and some of them will be in a single passage. So today we're gonna be in a single passage and I want to also, well let's give you the key thought and then we'll then we'll get into more of the message. So here we go. Here's the key thought. The Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation of who we are as God's image bearers. The Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation and I worded it that way because within the nuclear family unit, right? So you got mom, dad, also husband, wife, mom, dad, children, grandma, grandpa, and then cousins and it keeps branching out and extending out from there. My family had to recently establish that we knew the difference between second cousins and first cousins once removed because for those who didn't know my niece Alexandra had her baby, praise God, welcomed a new member into our family, Eliana is adorable, but for those of you who are gonna pause the sermon and give a little family lesson. In case you didn't know what the difference between second cousins and first cousin once removed. In order to be cousins you must share a common ancestor going up in equal generations. So cousins share a grandparents, right? All of my cousins we got the same grandma, grandpa. Second cousins share a great-grandparent, it's equal generations. If you do not share a singular ancestor at a generation you are not first, second, third, fourth cousins. You are first cousin once removed, right? So my children are first cousin once removed to my now great-niece which is why Aunt Mimi and I are now great Aunt Mimi and great Uncle Bill. Of course I was already great so now they're just establishing the title further. I say that to try to segue into today's topic is challenging. Today we're going to be discussing the topic of biblical marriage and I want to say off the bat this is going to be an uncomfortable topic. This is going to be a topic that engages with both culture and with Bible and so I need you to everybody put your seat belts on, seat backs, tray tables, upright, locked position. No matter what your view of this topic is I am probably going to offend you today. I'm at least going to challenge you to widen your thinking and so before I get into the topic of biblical marriage I need to establish that there is a difference between biblical marriage and civil or cultural marriage. These are two different things. In fact in English we have two different words marriage and matrimony, right? And we're joining them to the bonds of holy matrimony. That's the old school way you say it. The word marriage and the word matrimony do not have the same exact definition. Marriage is a civil union overseen by a civil authority. Matrimony is almost exclusively Christian marriage before God. We invented the word matrimony. In fact the word matrimony comes from the Latin matron meaning mother and imini meaning the ontological state of being. So matrimony literally is the relationship that turns a woman into a mother. That's what the word matrimony actually means. But for today's message so that I don't get confused with M words because my ADHD gets lost really easily we're going to use the terms biblical marriage and cultural marriage and I want to establish that these things are not the same so that I can then move away from this. So here we go. Six different ways in which biblical marriage and cultural marriage are different. Number one, they are under different authorities. As I've said, cultural marriage or civil marriage here in the United States what we call it is under different authorities. As a pastor I know this better than most because when I move to a different state I have to learn what the laws of that state are in order to perform a wedding ceremony. In fact I'll tell you when we first moved to Virginia some eight nine years ago I was asked to do a wedding. It was actually my first wedding that I did in Virginia. They were not members of our church Jerry because when I hear this story you're gonna know man how do you keep a job. I performed a wedding at my church in Virginia that the state of Virginia told me was invalid. Because see everywhere I go ordained ministers we do weddings. That's why you get an ordination. Why your pastor if you have an ordination you can marry. That was that way in Florida. That was that way in Georgia and it's that way here in Delaware. But in Virginia, Virginia has a law. In the state of Virginia only the court system of Virginia retains the right to officiate civil marriages. So if I want to be a pastor and I want to perform weddings in my church that are biblically valid and civilly valid. I have to go and pay and apply to be a court representative and then the state of Virginia does a background check and they put my name on some weird list and now I'm allowed to do weddings. Because in Virginia the authority that oversees marriage is the court system not the church. We also have different laws depending on what state you live in on how young you can get married. What relation can you be to get married? In some states you can marry your second cousin. That's totally legal. That's the state of Delaware by the way. In some states you can marry your first cousin which is Alabama and a couple other states. It's not just Alabama. I have a couple friends from Alabama and Hank if you're watching I love you but you got a backwoods redneck kind of state. And so there are I think six states in the United States where you can marry your first cousin. The rest of them you can't. Delaware just had a we had a state resolution about recognizing first cousin marriages from other states even though we don't recognize them as being performed here in Delaware. All of that to say that the authority over biblical marriage is God and the authority over cultural marriage is whatever state or country you happen to live in. Second they have different definitions and here's where we're going to get into this. The definition of a biblical marriage. It's one man and one woman for one life and I will establish why that definition is necessary as we go forward. However the definition of a civil or a cultural marriage can pretty much be very flexible depending on the culture. The Greeks, the Turks, the Ottomans they all had different definitions. Even here in America we have different definitions. So we have heterosexual marriage, we have homosexual marriage, we have polygamy which is one man marrying multiple wives and we have polyamory which is one woman marrying multiple husbands and there are even states where you can marry your pet now. So if you would like to be legally pronounced and I now pronounce you man and wife please welcome Mr. and Mrs. Chewbacca down the aisle. You can do that. That is because the authority over civil marriage can set the terms. The authority over biblical marriage sets the terms and these two terms can be different and they can both be real. So this is me saying the people who hold to civil marriage can have their definition and those who hold to biblical marriage can have their definition. Here's where the rubber really meets the road. Everybody in the biblical marriage argument wants to make civil marriage obey biblical laws and everybody in the civil marriage argument wants to make biblical marriage obey civil laws. They want to swap the authority at the top in order to change the definition in the real world. That's what we're not allowed to do. So if you are in the biblical marriage camp, hi I love you, we should stop beating civil marriages over the head with biblical definitions and if you're in the civil marriage camp, hi I love you, you know what I have? I have never had a single one of my gay friends ask me to officiate their wedding. Never. Why? Because they know that I hold to a biblical definition of marriage and they would never ask me to do something that crosses my conscience. That doesn't mean in our country, Virginia and definitely Alabama looking at you Hank, right? They can have their own biblical definition or they can have civil definitions but that's not going to come and change our biblical definitions. Third, biblical marriage and civil marriage have different terms. Civil marriage is a contract. Biblical marriage is a covenant. There's a difference here. A contract is any agreement entered in by two parties at which the two parties agree to a partnership of limited terms. We have business contracts, we have marriage contracts, with different things. A covenant is a lifelong relationship agreed before God that is irrevocable. Biblical marriage is a covenant. Civil marriage is a contract. You can enter into the contract. We can set terms for the contract and if I no longer like the way you are holding to the terms of our marriage, I can end our contract. Whereas a covenant is lifelong before God. Fourth, marriage and biblical marriage and civil marriage have different purposes. Biblical marriage's purpose is to glorify God and I will expound on that as we get into it. Civil marriage's purpose is basically to make people happy. It's basically to buy loyalty or equity or faithfulness from somebody in the terms of a contract. The whole problem is is if you don't know how to be faithful going into marriage, it's hard to be faithful in marriage. It's one of the biggest things I have to talk about when we do premarital counseling with young people. If you're afraid he's gonna cheat before you're married, that fear only gets worse after you're married. Don't marry the cheater. Like, whoo! Worldwide revelation right there, right? So we have different authority, we have different definitions, different terms, different purpose, different importance. Here's another one. Biblical marriage is foundational and I'm gonna show you why as we go through our sermon. Biblical marriage is foundational to family, to faith, even to our theology itself. Biblical marriage is foundational. Civil marriage is optional. In fact, we have a state in our country today where many young people are delaying marriage until after they get their life together, right? So if we just rewind back two generations, so my grandparents' generation, marriage was the cornerstone of life. My grandma, my grandpa got married when they were dirt poor, super young, didn't have anything, struggled. My grandpa went to the service, right? They fought together to build a life. That's the cornerstone of marriage. Now, most young people have a capstone view of marriage. Let's go ahead and get our school out of the way, let's start our career, let's establish ourselves, let's have a great life and then figure out how to tether that life to another life. So when you have a cornerstone view of marriage, you begin together at the beginning of the race and you grow everything together. When you have a capstone view of marriage, you both are growing to be eligible candidates and then you're searching for the other eligible candidate and they're trying to tether an already built life to another already built life. Those are two completely different levels of importance. One is foundational, the other is optional. And then finally, the lesson or the purpose behind what marriage does is completely different. Biblical marriage is designed to teach us faithfulness. I argue that civil marriage does very little other than teach selfishness. Because if you get into marriage with the idea that I can get out as soon as you don't make me happy, then your measurement for a good marriage is whether I am personally happy. Not whether my marriage is personally strong or is my wife happy in our marriage. If you enter into marriage with the idea that I am the focus, then that remains the focus. So the six reasons biblical and cultural marriage are different. Different authority, different definition, different term, different purpose, different important, and ultimately teaches a different lesson. Here's why I need you to understand that. My job as I stand before you and every other day of the week, my job is not to be a cultural commentator. My job is to be a scriptural educator. The reason I needed to clearly establish for you that civil marriage and biblical marriage is different is from this point forward, I will no longer be commenting on civil marriage. That's not my role. My job is to properly expound scripture and argue for why one man, one woman, and one life is the only possible definition of marriage that accomplishes the biblical purposes. And that's what I want to do today. I'm not here and when I get to the end, I'm gonna hit a couple of very big questions that everybody has when we get into the marriage topic. But first I'd like to present my argument. And my argument is this. Monogamous heterosexual marriage is the only form of marriage that exists that accomplishes both of God's purposes for marriage. That is why monogamous heterosexual marriage is the only right definition that can be biblical, is it's the only one that accomplishes biblical purposes. As I expound scripture today, I'm gonna show you both of those points and I'm gonna show you why I ended that conclusion. So we're gonna leave civil marriage aside. Virginia, Alabama, Delaware, y'all can all have your own definitions. But now we're gonna dive into scripture and I'm gonna show you where marriage was created and why I believe two key purposes eliminate all definitions of marriage other than monogamous heterosexual marriage. So let's take a look at Genesis chapter 2. There's really not a whole lot of point to do the big Bible story but let's give it a shot. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Great, we're there. Good job. Everybody gets three stars today. Good job. Genesis chapter 2, I only want to look at verses 18 to 25. Just a small section but there's a lot of really good meat in here. So Genesis chapter 2, we'll start reading at verse 18. The Lord God said, it is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him. Now the Lord God had formed out of the ground all the wild animals and all the birds of the sky and he brought them to the man to see what he would name them and whatever the man called each living creature, that was its name. So the man gave names to all the livestock, to the birds of the sky and all the wild animals. But for Adam, no suitable helper was found. So the Lord God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep and while he was sleeping he took one of the man's ribs and then closed up the place with flesh. Then the Lord God made woman from the rib he had taken out of the man and he brought her to the man. The man said, this is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh so she shall be called woman for she was taken out of man. That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife and they become one flesh. Adam and his wife were both naked and they felt no shame. That's it. There's there is a ton of really good nuggets in here. So let's rewind back to verse 18. I probably could do an entire sermon on just verse 18 because I love it. So I'm gonna try to give you all the good nuggets and then get to 25 before it's Taco Bell time. So and the Lord God said, first notice this, the word Lord there all capital letters what does that mean? God's covenant name. Notice that we're in Genesis 2 but let's rewind. Who wrote the book of Genesis? I heard it, Moses. Moses doesn't write the book of Genesis until after the God reveals to him this. Now I would also submit to you that if Adam and Eve and Cain and Abel were all real human beings then there is an actual human history that is passed down from family to family just like my grandma can tell me stories about my grandpa that happened before I was alive. That doesn't mean they didn't exist. So the Lord God, Covenant God said, it is not good man to be alone. Stop. Gentlemen, let me pick on you first because you're in the text first. We in our culture have this idea that the lone wolf man is the primo macho man, right? You think about super high-end masculine movies, right? You got Rambo. Rambo going into the woods with just his knife and his bow that's got like this grenade on the end of it. You have all these the Air Force One with Harrison Ford, Single Man, Die Hard probably started an entire genre of one guy against all the bad guys. We have this idea in our culture that one man on his own is the proto best thing. That's a lie. You know how I know that's a lie? Because here in chapter 18, God himself said it is not good for man to be alone. Gentlemen, I will tell you without reservation the greatest thing a man can be in this life is a husband and a father. You know why? Because until you are married and a father, you won't have the rest of your character continue to be pressed out and shaped and then hewn into all that God could make you to be. Now, does that mean that God doesn't call some people to singleness? No. He definitely called the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul writes about it in the New Testament. But I would argue that they are the exception not the rule. Because let's just be super obvi here. If the rule was that lone males were fine, then procreation would be a lot harder, right? God said it is not good for man to be alone and now the second sentence, I will make a helper suitable for him. So, let's unpack this sentence because there's a lot here that applies to female humans. First, who makes Eve? God does. Who puts Adam to sleep? God does. Why? Because Adam, God did not require Adam's opinions when he made his wife. Just so we're clear. I will make a helper. A lot has been made of this word so let me be very clear. The word helper in Hebrew is azer. E-Z-E-R. And the literal definition of azer is a partner of equal value but different function. So many times in English when we read the word helper, we seem to think of Eve as being subservient or in some way of a lower class or a lower structure than Eve. I've even seen it preached that because Adam named Eve, that Adam had a higher rank or position than Eve. I think Adam does name Eve and that's true but not because he outranked her. He had a responsibility to name all of creation and he saw that in the verses proceeding it. The word azer literally means that Eve is equal value. Think about rewind back. Let us make mankind in our image and God created them male and you can't see the image of God in humanity only in men. Let me say that again. I don't think you heard it. You can't see the image of God in humanity only looking at men. You must have male and female together to see the totality of the image bearers that we are as being made in God's image. So women you are not created to be subservient to men. That does not mean throughout human history that evil men haven't done really evil stuff. Yeah we have. Men we got to own that. Why is there this prevailing idea that men are predators? Because men commit most of the crime. Because men commit most of the rape. Because men commit most of the atrocities. Totally true. Own that. You know what the difference is between a sheepdog and a wolf? The sheepdog knows who to bite and who to protect. The wolf just bites whatever he wants. He just eats wherever he wants. It takes good men to stop bad men. Period. But when God makes Eve, he makes her not only a helper and equal of value different in function but then he further describes that helper as suitable. Not just ancillary. Not just hey you know if you could get around to making me a wife God that'd be great. No he makes a helper suitable for him. Eve was made for Adam. Male was made for or female was made for male. They were created for each other. I'm scanning really quick to see who the youngest person in the room is. Okay so it is not a surprise to God that the male reproductive organ and the female reproductive organ fit together. There's a churchy way to say that. Right? I really struggle with how am I gonna say this sentence. Well I think who's the youngest person in the room. Right? It is not a surprise to God that humans reproduce via sexual reproduction. You know why? Pop. You know I'm shocked. It was made that way. It was made that way on purpose. And here's another great reason. Do you know another thing that creationists have over evolutionists? Evolutionists have to explain the origin of sexual reproduction. Asexual reproduction which is where an animal in and of itself has the ability to copy its own DNA structure and make the next generation who is genetically identical to the previous generation. That's called asexual or non-sexual reproduction. One animal copying its DNA code and making an exact duplicate. That is so much more evolutionary advantageous. You know what's not evolutionarily advantageous? Sexual reproduction and competition. So the evolutionist has to explain not only where did life come from, not only where did the diversity of life come from, but why are there so many things on this planet that require sexual reproduction to produce the next generation. You know what creationists do? We go because it was made to fit. Now that's humans. That's also animals, right? It was made that way. Eve was made suitable. She was made to fit with Adam. They were made as a pair. Do you honestly think God fully formed Adam and then went, what am I gonna do with this? Really? Or does it make more sense that because it's male and female together are the image bearers of God. He made Adam first and then watch what happens. We take after verse 18, there almost is this little side story here. We take a side quest on verse 19 and we get to see that God formed out of the ground all the wild animals, all the birds of the sky and he brought them to the man to see what he would name each of them. Now there's two things that are happening in this verse and I'll get to the second half in a minute. So two things are happening. Number one, who's doing the creating? God. Who's doing the naming? Adam. So God is both teaching Adam two separate things. First, Adam is created as God's regent. So God is the king and Adam is the ruling regent over creation. We see that because Adam has the authority to name the very creatures that God creates. But in his regent level authority, God is also teaching Adam a lesson, right? And I there's this huge preacher joke that when you think about all the amazing names we have for animals, some of them got named early in this in this list of animals and some of them got named later, right? So when when Adam is presented with the hippopotamus, like this is this really beautiful word, like hippopotamus. And then towards the end of the day, Adam's getting ready for lunch break. He's like, cow, cow, cat, dog, frog. God, can I take a break yet? Right? Adam has the authority to name the creatures but he he notices something about the creatures. All of the creatures have mates. All of them have pairs. They're made to go together. So verse, so he brought them to see what the man would name them and whatever the man called each living creature, that was its name. Verse 20, so the man gave named all the livestock, the birds of the sky, and the wild animals. Those three categories, that's just the ancient Near East Way of categorizing animals. We today have more of a scientific taxonomy. We use mammal, reptile, fish, bird. In their culture, they viewed livestock as domesticated animals. Birds of the sky is literally everything that flies. And wild animals is everything that lives on the ground that's not a domesticated animal. That's just the way they categorized animals. But look at verse 20, but for Adam, no suitable helper was found. Ladies, I have to tell you, I think God does Eve a massive solid by not creating her in tandem with Adam. Instead, he creates Adam, places Adam as the regent, gives him authority over creation, and allows him to learn what God tells us in verse 18. It is not good for man to be alone. God allows Adam to discover the truth of that statement by naming all of the animals in pairs, realizing that all of the other animals have a suitable partner. Well, God, where my partner at? How come I don't have a partner? And then when Adam comes to the realization that he's not good enough on his own, then he is ready to be a husband. It's not until he's ready to relinquish that like super male bravado, that broskiness that like, I am totally good on my own. I don't need no woman. Like, and then he realizes, wait a minute, everybody else has a partner. Everybody else is battling through life together. Where's my partner? Then we... So, God allows Adam to realize his need for Eve and then allows him to take a nap so he can't comment on how Eve is made. Verse 21, so the Lord God caused Adam to fall into a deep sleep and while he was sleeping, he took one of the man's ribs and he closed up the place with flesh. There is nothing overly genetically significant about the rib. There's not. It's where on his body the rib comes from that's important. Even in ancient times, they knew the rib was the side, the center of the side. Eve was made to be the side by side equal to Adam. She wasn't made from his feet. She wasn't made from his head. She wasn't made from his knees. She was made to be side by side with him as his equal partner but different in function. 22, then the Lord God made a woman from the rib he had taken out of man and he brought her to man. There's this really poetic thing that happens here that we kind of miss because we in in our society today, we think of this scientifically, right? Well, here's what's interesting. The very first woman was made from the very first man and every other man in all of creation was made from a woman. There is a symbiotic relationship created between male and female. Only the very first female, right? Because the only way for Adam to be made first is him to be physically formed by God. The only way for Eve to be made first is to be physically formed by God because Adam is not capable of asexual reproduction because he was made for Eve and Eve was made for Adam. So after God creates the first two proto-human beings, every other male human, Jesus included, is born from a woman. And in so doing, you see that side-by-side partnership relationship. Adam in 23, he comments on this relationship. Oh no, excuse me, sorry. One other thing about verse 22, sorry. 22, then God made the woman from the rib he had taken and then end of 22 and he brought her to the man. I point this out every time I give the privilege of doing a wedding ceremony. We rehearse and we redo this moment in our culture every time we do a wedding. Just think about it. Just pretend we were in a wedding ceremony, right? And then usually I'm standing up here and the groom standing up here and the best man standing next to him and me and the best man are telling the worst jokes possible to try to get the groom to laugh in front of his brand-new grandmother-in-law. And then there's this moment where then everybody stands up and where do they look? They look to the back. Why? Because the bride's about to walk in. And in a typical traditional wedding ceremony, who walks the young lady down the aisle? Her father. And then what's the very first thing that I have to say to the dad while they're still standing right here? I say, who brings this woman to be married to this man? And the father will either say, I do, or her mother and I do, or her family and I do. But somehow there is an exchange of the bride being given away. In a typical ceremony, if you're using a veil, that's the moment where the father would lift the veil of his daughter. He would give his daughter one last kiss and he would present her to the man who is about to be joined to her in marriage. That's verse 22. Because who is Eve's father? God. The father of the bride literally presents his daughter to her husband. That is why this is the first marriage in creation. Because Adam is created as a single individual. He's created as a single dude. And then God says, by the way, hey, single dude, it's not good for you to be alone. And so God creates the first woman, also his daughter, and then God presents the daughter to the would-be husband. And he is the first person to join the two in marriage. And what is Adam's response? Verse 23. This is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, for she was taken out of man. I'm super happy that in English I can point this out. So in English, the word woman, W-O-M-A-N, contains the word man, M-A-N. It is the exact same in Hebrew. So the word for woman in Hebrew is isha. Isha. The word for man in Hebrew is ish. Literally, she is the isha. She was made out of man. In the same way that in our language I could say woman was made out of man. And then every subsequent man is made out of woman. Every isha makes a new ish. But the first isha was made from the ish. So just a really nice parallel that those two things are the same in our language that they are in Hebrew. And again, that is supposed to illustrate their equality before God. Adam naming Eve does not mean he outranks Eve. It means he has a different function from Eve. I'm not super good at the sports ball, right? I'm not. But I know that on almost all sports ball teams, players do different things, right? Go fast, run hard, get the bucket, blow the points, you know, whatever it is. That doesn't mean that player A and player B who have different functions necessarily outrank one another. There may be one person named team captain, but that doesn't apply to everybody. And why? Because no matter what sport it is, whether it's basketball, baseball, football, hockey, it takes a team to win a game. Adam and Eve are formed as the first marriage because it takes a team to do what God has intended for them to do. So then when we get to verse 24, that is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife and they become one flesh. I just don't believe this verse is preached enough because this verse is so important. So let's break it down. First, that is why. Which that is Moses referring to? Which that? Well, that is why a man, so that is the cause, the effect. The man leaves his father and mother. So why is it that a man has to leave his father and mother? I submit to you that that is why the reason for marriage is that human beings are designed by God. The design of man is to be partnered with a woman in the same way that Eve was made out of Adam's side. That is why a man ultimately has to leave his father and mother. Now, let me cue in on the word leave because some of you are thinking are we really in a marriage and family series talking about the destruction of family? No, we're not. The word leave here does not mean the physical leaving of a family. You know how I know that? Because all I have to do is get to the patriarchal stories in the book of Genesis and you can see that they lived as large tribes, right? Abraham, then down to Isaac, then down to Jacob and Jacob and his 12 sons and all of their children all lived as one large family unit. So it's not like every time they aged out, they just moved off and and went on their own and like pioneered some brand new thing. That word leave means a transfer of loyalty and faithfulness. That's what it means. When I chose to marry the most beautiful woman on the planet... I'm sorry ladies, you're all second best. When I chose to marry the most beautiful woman on the planet, I made the active choice to change my loyalty and my fidelity from my family of origin to my family of marriage. Melanie is now the most important person, most important human being in my life. She must come before my own mother. She must come before my own father. That doesn't mean I don't love my aunt and uncle. That doesn't mean I still don't have a great relationship with them or that my children don't get to know their grandparents. Like we don't need to extend this verse farther than it's saying. But what it is saying is when she and I had that moment and my father-in-law walked her down the aisle all those years ago, it feels like a long time for me. Because next year when my anniversary comes around, my wife and I have been together longer than we were ever apart. And I can't wait for that because she's so redefined my life in ways that I would never would expected. So next year our anniversary is the dictionary one because she will have been part of my life longer than we were separate. But on that one day, Curtis, my father-in-law, he walks Melanie down the aisle and Melanie and I stood before my then pastor, Pastor Eugene, and we got married. I transferred all of my loyalty and faithfulness to my wife. She became the most important person. That is why, why is why? Because Eve was made for Adam. Because they were made of equal value but different in function. The purpose of humanity was for a man to transfer his loyalty and fidelity from his family of origin to his family of marriage. And then we get and is united to his wife. Gentlemen, don't get up-sided yet. That has nothing to do with sex. Just letting you know. And is united to his wife. What does this really mean? That's the moment of marriage. That is the moment of marriage. This is why Christian marriage is always done publicly. Christian marriage is always done in front of a community. Whether that's your family, whether that's your local church family. Why? Because when you are united to your wife, now keep in mind there is no humanity available to witness the marriage of Adam and Eve. So who is the witness to watch Adam Neeves first wedding? God himself. The man will leave his father and mother, change his fidelity and his loyalty and be united to his wife. That's why we do this publicly. There is a single moment where two young people walk down that aisle single and we talk for a minute and we exchange some rings and sometimes we do some communion and sometimes there's like a foot washing ceremony. Sometimes we sing a song. But when those two young people walk away from this altar, they are no longer two separate young people. They are one married couple. That is the uniting that is mentioned in verse 24. It's not the honeymoon uniting, it's the public marital uniting. They become one unit and they become one flesh. Now that does include the honeymoon night but that one flesh is not only a reference to sex. Why are husband and wife one flesh? Because they were made from one flesh. Marriage is the recombination of what was separated when God... God just think about this. God could have made Eve from the dirt the same way he made Adam. If God is powerful enough to reach into the dirt of the ground and form man, right? Like full-on six foot one Jason Momoa. He's capable of that. God is capable of forming Eve from the dust of the earth and breathing the ruach of life into her but he didn't choose it. Why? Because the purpose for humanity is that woman would be rejoined with man. That's why she was made out of man. She was not made out of man because somehow superior to woman. She was made out of man because the design is for them to become one unit again. They were made from the original unit and they're supposed to return to the original unit. That is why once people get married we stopped referring to Bill and Melanie and we started referring to Bill and Melanie. We stopped referring to Megan and Jesse and started referring to Megan and Jesse. Why? Because at the point of their marriage which was which was witnessed publicly. I mean I wasn't there but I assume you guys didn't get married in a cave, right? Right. Just saying. Once it's witnessed publicly which is the united to his wife they become one flesh. They become one flesh here. Right here. In front of everybody. And it's not weird and it's not ugly and it's not disgusting. Their lives become joined together in the intention of creation. And also and then we get to verse 25. Adam and his wife were both naked and they felt no shame. Remember this is the Genesis chapter 2. Sin has not entered creation yet. Sin has not entered creation. The first wedding that happens between Adam and Eve happens before sin. Which means everything that Adam and Eve experienced is God's proportional design for marriage before sin enters the equation. Before sin wrecks it and gets it all up. There was no reason to hide any part of themselves from the other. Marriage is the one relationship in which you are both unashamedly vulnerable with one another. That naked yet refers to physical nakedness. But there are plenty of people who can be physically naked with somebody and still emotionally distant. Intellectually distant. The whole point of the bond of marriage is that you get a life partner that you can be completely and fully vulnerable with. And that is God's expectation for marriage. So that's the that's the example of marriage. And I want to answer a couple of very clear questions. So I'm clear about what I'm saying and I'm clear about what I'm not saying. So first is what is the biblical definition of marriage? The biblical definition of marriage is one man and one woman for one lifetime. Or I could say heterosexual monogamous marriage. Now why is that? So most people understand that that's the biblical definition. But then they argue well that's not the only definition of marriage. You're totally right. You're totally right. It's not the only definition of marriage. We already dealt with them. Homosexual marriage is a definition of marriage. Polygamy is a definition of marriage. Polyamory is a definition of marriage. And monogamous heterosexual marriage is a definition of marriage. The question is not how many biblical, how many definitions can you create? The question is how many of the definitions exist meet the biblical purposes for marriage? Because only those definitions can be considered biblical. So what are the biblical purposes of marriage? What was the very first instruction that God gave to Adam and Eve? You heard that, be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. Right? She's not even married yet. She got that one down. Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. So now let's just go through the available definitions of marriage. How many of our current cultural available definitions can accomplish the be fruitful and multiply? Well yes. Heterosexual marriage can absolutely create a child. Homosexual marriage cannot create a child. Polygamists could create a child. So we got to leave that one in the table for now. And polyamorous could create a child. But homosexual marriage cannot create a child. So it must be excluded from the idea of what is biblical in marriage. So there's one other biblical purpose of marriage and that is to teach us loyalty and fidelity. And if you don't believe me, let's just talk about God himself for a second. Let's go to the Old Testament. When God is talking to the people in the Old Testament and they're often there worshiping other gods, what's the word God uses to describe their sinful activity of worshiping foreign gods? Adultery. Somebody said it or heard it. Adultery. Doesn't the word adultery automatically assume faithfulness in marriage? You can't commit adultery if you're not married. You can commit fornication. Sure, go ahead. Knock yourself out. Still sin, but it's a different kind The only way that adultery can apply is if a marriage was pre-existent. So when God is dealing with his people, he is expecting, think about the Abrahamic Covenant. I'm gonna be your God, you're gonna be my peeps. What is that? Faithfulness, fidelity, and loyalty. If that is what God expected of his people, it's super hard to argue that you can read polygamy or polyamory in God's design for marriage. Because neither polygamy nor polyamory can teach faithfulness and loyalty in the way God expected of his people. So again, of the four available definitions of marriage in our culture, polygamy and polyamory have to be out because they cannot reinforce life-long fidelity and faithfulness. So of all of the available definition, and I can put Mary Pet in there, but I didn't have a word for that. Of all of the available definitions that our culture presents to us for what marriage could be, only heterosexual, monogamous marriage A, can create children and B, teaches us the kind of faithfulness that God expects. That is why heterosexual monogamous marriage is the only form of marriage that's biblical. It's not just because God created it that way. I know that's the way everybody wants to argue it. But that's God created that way for a reason. He created that way for a purpose. And think about this. If you have a problem with the idea that heterosexual monogamous marriage is God's expectation, the church is the bride of... God expects our understanding of marriage in order to understand Israel's covenantal relationship with Jehovah and our covenantal relationship with Jesus. If you do not have a proper theology of marriage when you get out of Genesis chapter 2, you are going to wildly change the rest of the Bible. God was not okay with idolatry in the Old Testament. Why? Because Israel was his and they were supposed to be faithful. So polygamy and polyamory are out. And yet the Abrahamic covenant is passed down generationally. So gay marriage is out. Not because they can't exist in a civil structure, but they cannot accomplish the biblical purpose. So what is the biblical definition of marriage? Heterosexual, monogamous, or it's just easier one man one woman one life. So second question. Why is God against gay marriage? Let's just put this one right out in the open. God is not against gay marriage. It does not accomplish the biblical purposes. Therefore it's not biblical. The idea that God has to be against something is really flawed. Now, I can unpack all the scriptures that talk about homosexuality being sin, sure. But it is ruled out prima facie. Any form of marriage that does not create children and teach faithfulness isn't biblical marriage. That does not mean that every other empire that has existed for all of humanity has created their own rules for marriage. The Persians had marriage. The Greeks had marriage. The Romans, the Romans, the Romans. That's where I'm at Jen, the Romans. The Romans had marriage. Just because we live in America doesn't mean America gets to redefine the Bible. Period. That doesn't mean America doesn't have the privilege to write its own rules. Also, period. We as those who choose to hold to the Bible as the final authority of life, we answer to a different authority. Therefore we operate on a different purpose, which is why we have a different definition. When somebody comes to me and says, do you think gay marriage and heterosexual marriage are the same? Before I answer the question, I ask them a question. Based on what scale? What is the terms by which you are asking me to answer this question? Are you asking me to answer this question based on Virginia's laws or Delaware's laws or Alabama's laws or on the Bible's laws? See, when somebody asks you to make a judgment, first you got to ask them what ruler are we using? What tape measure are we using? If you're asking me according to the laws of fill-in-the-blank USA, I would say yes. Every citizen of the United States of America should be treated equally under the law. Great. That's a foundational principle of our country. That does not mean that because Virginia gets to write its own laws and Delaware gets to write its own laws and Bama gets to write its own laws, that it's going to change the laws of the Word of God. That's also okay. We can say both and be both loving and truthful. Isn't that what Jesus was? He was the embodiment of love and he was the walking truth. I think as Christians today, people either default to going one way or the other way. Either we're so truthful that we're not loving or we're so loving that we're not truthful. In reality, we have to walk right down the middle and go, yes, if you would like to have a gay marriage in the state of Delaware, you can do so. That doesn't make your marriage biblical. It just makes your marriage legal. Let Rome be Rome. Jesus didn't try to change Rome. In fact, that's why we're still here. We outlasted Rome and the Greeks and the Turks and the Ottomans and the Black Plague and smallpox and the Revolutionary War. We outlasted all of that. Why? Because our authority is higher and our time scale is much longer. The Church of Jesus Christ will still be here if America isn't tomorrow. So I would argue it's not that God is against gay marriage or polygamy or polyamory or marriage. Whatever you call that. It's that none of those meet God's purposes for marriage. And then finally, if... Why is polygamy wrong if it's in the Bible? I do get asked this a lot. Why is polygamy wrong if it's in the Bible? So first, let's go ahead and admit there are 100% polygamous stories in the Bible of biblical characters who are in covenant relationship with God and still have multiple wives. So here's a very foundational principle that they teach in like the 101 level bachelor's class of studying the Bible. There is a difference between descriptive text and prescriptive text. When you go to the doctor and you're sick and they write you a prescription, what are they doing? They are prescribing actions for you to follow. Whether that be taking medicine or bed rest or whatever it is, the prescription is telling you what you should do. When you go to the doctor and you tell the doctor how you feel, you are not prescribing your symptoms to the doctor. You are describing your symptoms. What are you doing? You're explaining what is not what should be. So when we see polygamy in the Bible, people go, well you can't be against polygamy. It's in the Bible. I totally can because the Bible describes it. It doesn't prescribe it. The Bible is full of sinful human beings. I apologize if that's an offensive statement. After everything else I've said, that really shouldn't be the offensive one today. The Bible is full of flawed sinful human beings and that's why God's grace is so amazing. Polygamy is in the Bible because humans fail to live by God's design and instead chase their own desires. And I'm sure if we were all honest with ourselves, we kind of do the same thing. I'm sure there's places in every one of our lives if we wanted to take a set of tweezers and a flashlight, we could dig into your life and find somewhere where you're desires instead of God's design. Why do we not allow that the human beings who live in the Bible do the same thing? In fact, the probably the most famous polygamy story that I can think of is in the patriarchs. God said, Sarah's gonna have a child and Abraham said, I don't want to wait. And then Sarah's like, here take my handmaiden. Enter Hagar and all of a sudden Ishmael. And then God, then Abraham says, I'm gonna bless your son. And God says back to Abraham, but I already have a son. And God was like, bruh, I said that woman was gonna give you a son. I didn't say go find another wife and do it for yourself. That's like the new international bill version of that story. God had a plan. He gave clear instructions for his plan. Abraham and Sarah decided to do something other than God's plan and then try to get God to bless that instead of doing what he said in the first place. Isn't that what we do as humans all the time? So why is polygamy wrong if it's not... If it is in the Bible? It is in the Bible because it describes it. It is not in the Bible because it prescribes it. All you have to do is go to the book of Judges and read the amount of jacked up people just in that one little book. That doesn't mean that just because the devil describes actions of some past living human being that we should mimic or we should copy or we should model our lives after every single biblical character. They are there for us to learn from their failures not copy them. So polygamy is in the Bible because people who lived in the past chose sin over God's design. That doesn't mean God is encouraging us to do that. So what is the biblical definition? One man one woman one life. Why is God against gay marriage? He's against every form of marriage that doesn't meet the biblical purposes. It's the same way it was like why is God not... One question that somebody wanted me to add. So let's go and add it. Why is... If you're living together and you're having sex, why is that wrong? Well simply because the sexual relationship was built for the confines of marriage and any form of sex outside of marriage is sin and any form of... Or not should be any. Forms of sex inside of marriage are holy. All forms of sex outside of marriage are unholy. Why? Because God set something apart and since he's the one that built marriage and by the way he's the one that literally built the pieces that we use for sex, he's the one that decides how we do it. That's why. It's not because God hates sex. He's literally the guy that invented it. Right? Again, he created male and female on purpose. So let me give you the takeaway as I hope I've explained this adequately. Monogamous heterosexual marriage is the only definition that accomplishes both the scriptural purposes for marriage which is why it is the only allowable biblical definition of marriage. It is not that God hates all gay people. It is not that God hates all people. You know what God hates? Sin. He loves people enough that he died for them but he hates the fact that we choose our own desires over his design. And you can keep creating other definitions of marriage. Go for it. You can keep creating other... You want to marry your lampstand? You want to marry your teddy bear? I mean you can keep creating definitions but the reality is there are biblical purposes established in Scripture by the authority of God himself that marriage is to accomplish. The monogamous heterosexual marriage is the only one that can do that.