Corrupted creation
from
The Bible’s story of creation is one of a very good creation that experiences corruption as a consequence
of human decision. God’s description of creation at the end of Genesis chapter 1 is “very good.” In order
to understand the corrupting effects of sin, we must look at why creation was “very good” and what
happened. Here’s a brief introduction to creation and corruption.
A VERY GOOD CREATION
The opening chapter of Genesis not only describes the events of creation, but also offers us a
glimpse as to the value and/or function of creation. In the first 5 days of creation, God states that
creation was “good.” However, at the end of the 6th day of creation, after humanity has been made
in the image of God, creation is deemed “very good”. This illustrates that creation was the best it
could be when God’s image-bearers (humans) were serving Him as the regent authority, in charge
of creation, leading and directing it to glorify God.
VERY GOOD THE IMAGE OF GOD ADAM’S REGENCY
Creation was “the best it The image of God in humans God’s direction to Adam to
could be” when God created describes our ability to reflect “rule over” creation was not
and placed mankind into His God’s character and represent making Adam king, but God’s
creation. Him in His creation. regent representative.
CORRUPTION ENTERS CREATION
The story of God’s “very good” creation only lasts for two chapters. In Genesis 3, temptation enters
Eden. Satan assumes the form of a snake and talked to Eve, tempting her to doubt God’s word and
desire her own self-determination. The same temptation now faces all human descendants.
QUESTIONING GOD OFFERING LIES NEW MORAL CENTER
Satan’s opening assault on Satan added to his temptation In the fall, Adam and Eve
creation and faith in God by claiming that disobeying chose their desire over God’s
begins with “Did God really God would make humans “like design making themselves
say...“ (Genesis 3:1) God”. (Genesis 3:5) their new moral center.
THE GLOBAL IMPACT OF CORRUPTION
After the fall, God comes to humanity to address the situation and describes the consequences.
The serpent receives consequences for his actions. All female humans receive consequences for
Eve’s actions. But, when God gives consequences to Adam, it is not male humans that receive the
consequences, but the planet itself. “Cursed is the ground because of you.” (Genesis 3:17)
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.

Noah in his world
from
The story of the Noah’s Ark is a fantastic example of God’s grace in the midst of judgment. However,
to fully appreciate Noah the man of faith, we must see him in the light of the world in which he lived.
Here is a brief introduction to Noah in the world in which he lived.
THE WICKEDNESS OF NOAH’S WORLD
The corruption of the world that began in Eden spread throughout the generations as humanity
expanded. In the time of Genesis 6, humanity was so wicked and evil the Bible says, “every inclination
of the thoughts of the human heart was only evil all the time.” (Genesis 6:5). The Lord’s response to
this was sorrow. God experienced grief at the wickedness of humanity. The grief God experiences is
the reason He chooses to send the flood. Human sin had become such a problem it required God’s
divine intervention.
ON THE EARTH MATTER OF THE HEART FULL OF VIOLENCE
The repetition of the words Genesis 6:5 reminds us it is The term “full of violence” in
“the earth” in Genesis 6:5-13 not only human action that Genesis 6:11 literally means
illustrate the global effects of is evil, but the thoughts and acts of physical aggression
human wickedness. inclinations of the heart. and violence.
THE RIGHTEOUSNESS OF NOAH
On the background of the wicked world in which he lives, Noah is conversely described as a “righteous”
man who was “blameless” and who “walked faithfully with God”. Noah is a shining example of how
we can still choose to live for and walk faithfully with God despite the wickedness of the world.
RIGHTEOUS BLAMELESS WALKED FAITHFULLY
Describing Noah as righteous Blameless in Genesis 6:9 Noah is described as a man
means he was “in the right” literally means Noah was who “walked” or stayed with
when it came to living the way devout and complete in the God as he lived His life. God
God had designed him. wicked world he lived in. was his companion.
DID GOD MAKE A MISTAKE
When modern readers read God “regretted” making mankind, they can often misinterpret God’s
actions at creation as a “mistake” on God’s part. This is not what the text says. God is not grieved that
He made man. The Creator is grieved at what man has made himself out to be. The flood is a harsh
but necessary intervention of God to arrest the worldwide wickedness and offer mankind a second
chance to choose to live according to God’s design instead of chasing after its own desires.
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.