What about dinosaurs
from
One of the most frequently asked questions from kids and adults is, “What does the Bible say about
dinosaurs?” Interestingly, the Bible on one hand says very little and yet on the other explains a lot
more than people think. Here is a brief introduction to the topic of dinosaurs and the Bible.
WORLDVIEW MATTERS
When approaching the topic of dinosaurs and the Bible, we must be clear about the worldview in
which the evidence will be evaluated. A biblical worldview does not discount or ignore science as a
means of learning about creation. Most, if not all, of the individuals credited as pioneers or founders
of major scientific disciplines were explicitly Christian or believed in God. The reason they embarked
on the journey of scientific discovery is because they believed in a God who created an ordered
world they could learn from. This is the same way we will approach the topic of dinosaurs. Scripture
informs our evidenced-based evaluation. Here are the foundational facts for our presentation of the
dinosaur-related data in a biblical worldview.
6TH DAY OF CREATION NOT IN THE BIBLE FOSSIL EVIDENCE
Dinosaurs are commonly The word “dinosaur” wasn’t Fossilized remains of animals
understood as land-dwelling, invented until 1842. It doesn’t that lived in the past is
air breathing creatures. They appear in the text of the Bible tangible evidence. It should
were created on the 6th along because it didn’t exist when be studied. Christians should
with all other land animals. the Bible was written. not fear evaluating evidence.
FOSSIL CREATION
Just because an animal lived and died in the past does not mean it will become a fossil. What
happens to animals today that die on the side of a road or in the wilderness? If their bodies are left in
the open, scavengers and the process of decomposition will reduce the remains naturally. In order
for an animal’s remains to become a fossil, three key things are required.
RAPID BURIAL LOW OXYGEN MINERAL RICH WATER
Rapid burial is required for A low oxygen environment is Mineral rich water is
fossil creation. If animal required for fossil creation. required for fossil creation.
remains are not rapidly The presence of oxygen aids Petrification, the process of
buried, the remains will be in decomposition and ruins minerals replacing organic
scavenged or decompose. remains before fossilization. tissue, can’t happen without it.
FLOOD FOSSILS
Given the Bible’s description of the catastrophic worldwide flood, land-dwelling air-breathing
animals that were not aboard the Ark would have been rapidly buried, in a low oxygen environment
under the weight of a massive amount mineral rich water. It is completely reasonable to conclude
fossils discovered today were created during the global flood described in Genesis.
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made to the content. For
questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.

What about dinosaurs
from
One of the most frequently asked questions from kids and adults is, “What does the Bible say about
dinosaurs?” Interestingly, the Bible on one hand says very little and yet on the other explains a lot
more than people think. Here is a brief introduction to the topic of dinosaurs and the Bible.
HUMANS AND DINOSAURS
The Bible describes dinosaurs and people being created on the same day of creation week. This
directly implies humans and dinosaurs lived in creation at the same time. This is a big claim that
stands directly opposed to the idea that humans and dinosaurs are separated by millions of years
of evolution. Is there any evidence that supports the Bible’s description of creation? In fact, there is.
CAMBODIAN STEGOSAURUS AFRICAN SAUROPOD DINO SOFT TISSUE
A stone carving depicting A cave drawing discovered in Scientists discovered and
a stegosaurus has been South Africa which appears to then independently verified
discovered in a column show a group of long-necked soft tissue and collagen
of artwork at a temple in animals next to a three-toed proteins in a fossil thought to
Cambodia. reptilian-looking footprint. be 70+ million years old!
DINOSAUR FATE
The inevitable question that arises from entertaining the idea that dinosaurs are not millions of years
old, but have only been extinct for a few thousand years is simple... What happened? Answering from
a biblical worldview, there are two possible answers. It could be either, but without more data, it is
difficult to know with certainty.
ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE HUNTED TO EXTINCTION
The Bible describes the flood as a catastrophic Extinction is the disappearance of an animal as
global event that changed major features of a result of hunting faster than the population
our planet. These changes directly shortened can reproduce. There is no reason to assume
human lifespans. It is very reasonable that dinosaurs were immune to being hunted by
some animals died due to the same changes. humans or other animals.
ICE AGE RESPONSE
The Genesis Flood was a global event that changed not only the surface of the planet, but also the
atmosphere. As more water vapor and volcanic gasses filled the sky, less solar heat penetrated the
cloud cover. The massive amount of water, combined with lower temperatures can easily explain
the onset of an ice age. An ice age is defined as a period of time when permanent ice sheets cover
at least one of the planet’s poles. That means we are currently living in an ice age that could easily
be explained as beginning at the end of the global Genesis Flood.
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made to the content. For
questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.