Can everybody hear me okay? Yes. I'm sorry, Dino, did you say we are recording? Yes? Awesome, awesome. So, hopefully by now everybody has a handout for tonight. If you are watching this video after the fact, these handouts are going to be downloadable in the Catalyst app. So I'm just going to ask you to go to the links tab, which is the bottom right hand, and then look for flood and then you'll find all of our handouts underneath that in the Catalyst app. And get the handout, download it, print it, whatever you'd like to do. I want to do tonight's lesson in two parts. So there's two parts to the lesson. As you can see, the handout is double-sided. We're going to start with the side that reads, is Genesis history or mythology? So what I'd like to do is teach the first half of the handout, then pause, take a couple of minutes if anybody needs to get up, whatever. Then we're going to flip, teach the second half of the handout, pause for another couple of minutes, and then do Q&A. If you have questions, I would love to try to help answer them as much as possible. I don't exactly remember how long I have to teach. Anybody remember? I got 6.54. Yes, ma'am. Just keep going until I'm told to shut up. That sounds like a good plan. All right. So let's start with what was that, Jim? Somebody order in. All right. Let's do this. Is Genesis history or mythology? I want to introduce you to a theological debate that really lies underneath of our conversation tonight. And that is, what is the proper way to interpret the book of Genesis? Now, within the field of Christian theology, there is a debate that rages on whether we should use the same interpretive method for the entire book of Genesis, or whether we interpret Genesis 1 through 11 differently than 12 to the end of the book. See, there's no one that questions we should be using the standard grammatical historical method of biblical interpretation from Abraham forward to the end of the story of Joseph, right? Nobody questions that. But if you want to use the grammatical historical method for anything from Genesis 1 to 11, that has begun to be questioned. So what I would like to try to defend to you first is why we need to do that. Because if we're going to have a conversation about the flood, then obviously all the texts that we need to refer to exist before Genesis chapter 12. And so I've got to establish, is the text of Genesis 1 to Genesis 11 mythological in nature? Is it myth? Is it just legend? Or is it the same type of narrative history that we see in the patriarchal narratives and in the story of Joseph? So if you see the first block here that says, is Genesis history or mythology? There's a large debate on what parts of the book of Genesis should be taken as history and what should be considered legend slash myth. The debate generally focuses on the first 11 chapters. Some scholars view Genesis 1 through 11 with different interpretive lens than the rest of the book. They suggest that narratives prior to chapter 12 should not be understood historically. But this changes abruptly at chapter 12 with the beginning of the story of Abraham. The patriarchal narratives are considered historical, but the preceding stories are not. Before we can present the information on the pre-flood world, we must determine if Genesis 1 through 11 is historical at all. Does everyone follow me so far? Fantastic. The left hand block, seven clear truths from Genesis 1 through 11. These are just seven clear statements that if Genesis 1 through 11 is historical, then these are seven statements that we can take as reliable. If Genesis 1 through 11 is legendary, if it is mythological, then these seven statements begin to go under question. So here we go. Let's take the first one. God created everything in six literal 24 hour days. That is massively questioned today. The whole concept of the Big Bang and deep time and the director got into it in the skit. This idea of millions of years of both cosmic and biological evolution. This is one of the main reasons why they'd like to draw that line between Genesis 11 and Genesis 12, is we want to explain away the 24 hour interpretation. Now there are multiple ways to interpret the first chapters of Genesis, but if we are correct that a grammatical historical method should be used, then the statement is true. God created everything in six literal 24 hour days. Statement number two. Adam and Eve were real people. I know that sounds funny to say in a Christian church, but I need you to imagine that we're not sitting in church and we're sitting in Starbucks or we're sitting in the middle of the mall. And you make the claim that Adam and Eve were actual real people. The majority of the people in that room are going to laugh at you like you're stupid because they've already accepted the reality that evolution is true. And man evolved from monkeys and they're so for the story of Adam and Eve is not about human origins as much as it is a mythological story to tell us about something. Some people claim that Adam and Eve are just types. They're not actual humans, but they're representative of male and female humans as they evolved. Other people may say that Adam and Eve were never real people. They're no more real than Zeus, Hades, Persephone, Hercules. They're only mythological and they're there just to teach us lessons, but there's no reason to consider them to be historically reliable people. If you give up Genesis one through 11 as historical, you also not only do you give up six 24 hour days of creation, but you give up Adam and Eve being historical people. Question number three, corruption entered God's very good creation as a result of the Adam of other should be of Adam and Eve sin. I apologize. Not the but of Adam and Eve sin. So another thing we lose if you give up Genesis one through 11, you give up the very origin of sin in the world. Now, this is going to be a massive problem when we get to the next point. But I just need to understand as in the Christian worldview, we believe that God created a very good creation, but the creation that we live in today is corrupted or is not the way that God's very good creation began. If you give up Genesis one through 11, you are no longer justified in believing in sin. Now, when we get to the New Testament, that's a problem, right? Paul said, for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. If the story of the fall in the garden is mythological and not historical, you lose the complete root of where sin comes from in the first place. Sin is now opinion. It is not history, which leads us to number four. God promised a human descendant that would crush the head of the serpent called that the proto evangelism or a proto evangelum. Excuse me. The proto evangel of Genesis, Chapter three. God speaks to Eve and promises her that there will come one from your very line, a descendant of Eve, and he will crush the head of the serpent. Right? That was Jesus winning the victory over sin. The problem is, is if sin is not real, then there's no need for a savior. If you jettison Genesis one through 11 and sin itself is no longer a real thing, then why does anybody need a savior if sin is just opinion? Do you see? I haven't even made it to five, six, and seven yet, and we just lost the whole gospel. We just lost the... Christianity is false if you give up one through 11, because now there's no reason to believe that sin is real. There's no reason to believe that, as the New Testament shows, that all humans are descendant from Adam and Eve through Noah, and that the sin from the garden infected the entire world, because if the garden was never real and Adam and Eve were never real, then sin is not real. We don't need a savior. Christianity is worthless. You see how fast that happens? Number five. Noah constructed an ark on which pairs of air-breathing, land-dwelling animals were saved. Now, we are going to go into a lot deeper discussion about the animals on the ark and deal with the idea of kind versus species. How many animals actually had to be on the ark? The Bible never uses the word species. In fact, that's a word that came out of scientific taxonomy thousands of years after the Bible was written. But I just need to understand that it is either a true statement that a man named Noah constructed an ark on which pairs of air-breathing, land-dwelling animals were saved, or that is not a true statement. You can't have it both ways. Either Noah is a historical figure who built an actual historical ark on which historically pairs of air-breathing, land-dwelling animals were saved from an actual flood, or the whole thing goes out. The idea that you can have a catastrophic global flood as a real event, but then have Noah and the ark as a legendary or mythological adaptation, that makes sense. If the flood was a global catastrophic real event and there is no Noah and there is no ark, humanity is dead. Or perhaps the flood wasn't global as the Bible claims, and so humanity survived somewhere else. And we will get into that a little bit more in the back half of tonight's lesson. But number five, the fact that there was an actual Noah who built an actual ark is garbage if Genesis 1-11 is not true. Number six, there was a catastrophic global flood. Let me make this one super clear. The way the Bible describes the flood is not localized. Now we will get into better arguments for that when we get all the way to night five on the flood, but I just need you to understand. If we are using a proper grammatical historical method, if we are reading scripture in the language that it was written, there is no interpretation that says the flood was just local to the Mediterranean area. It is a global catastrophic event, and we are then justified in asking ourselves what type of geophysical tectonic operation would be necessary to create a global catastrophic flood. And then point number seven, confusion of languages at the Tower of Babel produced different language groups. And I realize this is not directly flood related, but it is Genesis 1-11 related, and so I wanted to include it in this part of the lesson. As Christians, if you are going to accept that there was a global catastrophic flood, if you are going to accept that there was an actual dude named Noah who built an actual ark and actual animals survived the flood, don't turn around and make the story of Babel a myth. That makes no sense. You are going to take Genesis 1-10 as historical, make 11 mythological, just to switch back to a historical method in 12. That is a horrible Bible study method. There should be one method for interpreting a text all the way from beginning to end. So number seven, so just those clear seven truths. There is a six literal 24-hour creation. Adam and Eve are real people. The world we live in was created very good, but is currently corrupted. God promised a human descendant that would crush the head of the serpent. Noah was a real dude who built a real ark, saved real animals. There was a global catastrophic flood, and confusion of languages happened at the Tower of Babel. Those are seven clear truths communicated in Genesis 1-11, and you lose all of them if you legendarize or mythologize Genesis 1-11. Does everyone understand that? Alright, fantastic. Let's move over to the box to the right of that that says seven reasons why we should, or seven reasons to view Genesis 1-11 as history. Number one, and this is probably the biggest one for you Bible study students who are clear on your Bible study method. There is no clear change in language or literary style between Genesis 11, between chapter 11 and chapter 12 of Genesis. While the focus of the narrative changes, the literary style does not. There just, there isn't. And anyone who tells you there is, is making up a marker to get where they want to go. And trust me, I've read the literature. I've read the alternate views. They all use seemingly random things to claim some sort of difference in literary style from chapter 11 to chapter 12. Because what they're trying to do is escape the literal implications of Genesis 1-11 so they can either better align with current scientific dogma, better align with some other outside agenda, the cost for this. And yes, I realize this puts me in the crazy tin foil hat young earth creationist camp. Sure, but I get to keep the gospel. So Steve, if I got to live there, if I got to live being derided by the majority of the scientific community, even being derided by other Christians who are happy, holding on to an old earth creationist view, I got a major problem creating a biblical interpretation method that changes just because it's convenient. We don't do that with the gospels. We don't say that the birth narratives are legendary, but no, we got to keep this. Jesus's death on the cross. That has to be historical. You can't have it both ways. Either Jesus is real or he's a mythological creature. Either Noah was a historical person or he was a mythological person. Either the flood was a historical event or a mythological event. There's no way to have it both ways. And there is no clear point in the text where we should change method from 11 to 12. Point number two, there is over a hundred references in both the Old Testament and the New Testament referring back to Genesis 1 through 11 as history, not mythology. So even if I didn't have the literary basis of point one here to defend it, there are over a hundred references in the Old Testament and the New Testament that refer back to the people and places from Genesis 1 through 11 as if they are real. Though that means every other book of the Bible that refers back to Genesis 1 through 11 is also false if Genesis 1 through 11 is not historical. Dottie, now we might as well just throw out the whole Bible. You lose the credibility of the whole Bible if you lose Genesis 1 through 11. Number three, Jesus refers to the creation of humanity as male and female as the establishment of marriage in Matthew 19, 34 through 35, and also the days of Noah as an actual historical time period in Luke 17, 26 to 27. Those are not the only references that Jesus makes to those. I just picked two to show you that Jesus does refer to the events of Genesis 1 through 11. So if you give up Genesis 1 through 11 as mythological, not only are you creating a textual rift that's not there, not only are you invalidating the rest of Scripture, you're straight up saying Jesus was wrong. When Jesus referred to the creation of Adam and Eve, he was just a stupid mistaken first century carpenter who didn't know that we're supposed to interpret that mythologically. Really? I mean, that's where you want to go with Jesus? Jesus, the actual son of God, was wrong about the interpretation of Scripture. I can't live there. Sorry, I can't. Number five, if Genesis 1 through 11 is not historical, the validity of the rest of the Word of God is no longer reliable either. If you're allowed to just go to any text that you don't like or any text that makes you uncomfortable and you're allowed to unwind it and call it mythological so you can explain away its consequences, why stop at Genesis 1 through 11? I mean, let's go to the middle of the Old Testament. Maybe the Abrahamic covenant was really mythological. Abraham was just a representative of all of humanity. So Casey, there's no reason to believe that God has a chosen people. There's no reason to believe that the Holy Spirit descended and the Shekinah Glory fell on Solomon's temple. There's no reason to believe any miracle is possible. There's no reason to believe that Jesus is the walking, talking Son of God. Do you see how quickly? I mean, that's one heck of a slippery slope. If you give yourself permission to mythologize pieces of the Word of God just to better fit an outstanding narrative, then Claudia, just have at it. Just hack up the Bible. Number six, if Genesis 1 through 11 are not historical, the gospel is undermined and Christianity is not true. Period. Wholesale. You're out. If we give up Adam and Eve are historical, therefore, I mean, if we give up Adam and Eve as historical, we turn them into mythological. You just gave up the root for why all human beings are sinful. If you give up that Adam and Eve were real historical people, there's no reason to understand why humanity is sinful. If there's no reason to understand why humanity is sinful and Jesus is wrong about referring to Adam and Eve and in the days of Noah, then Jesus isn't God. Then his death on the cross doesn't pay for all sin. And we're pretty much wasting our time. And trust me, I just need to understand. When I was in my master's program, I desperately wanted old earth creationism to have better evidence than young earth creationism because it would cause me to not fight with science based people as much. I tried super hard. I bought every book I could find on justifying old earth creationism and the arguments are just lacking because, and I'll tell you why, the arguments are lacking because they hold the book of nature to be equal to or greater than the book of scripture. So when God created the world, he revealed himself in three basic ways. The first way he reveals himself, which theologians would call general revelation. We see God's handiwork in the way he made creation. I took my family to the shore on Saturday and at one point while my children are playing in the surf and I'm sitting here, I have this inflatable couch so I can relax wherever I go because that's my speed. And so I'm sitting on this inflatable couch with this umbrella over me in the shade and I'm watching the surf pound on the beach and I'm watching Emily and Zola and I just turned to my wife and I say, you know what I'm glad for? I'm glad that God chose to make creation beautiful, not just functional. Right? He didn't have to make creation beautiful in order to sustain life. All food could be brown. And it would have kept us alive. But in his grace, in his creativity, he made a beautiful creation from the waves that crashed on the shore to the stars in the night sky to the aurora borealis, the northern lights, which I promised myself bucket list. I want to see it with my own eyes just once. Creation is beautiful. He made it that way on purpose, even though he didn't have to. If we give up Genesis one through eleven, we give up the way God created everything. Not only is Christianity not true, but then the world is left to random happenstance. Beauty is not really beauty. It's just accidental. So if Genesis one through eleven are not historical, the gospel is undermined and Christianity is not true. And finally, number seven, there is clear scientific evidence of a catastrophic worldwide flood. And this is something you probably don't get to hear in church quite often, unless your church is run by an apologist and then you're stuck with it. There is actual clear evidence of a global catastrophic flood, which is exactly the way the Bible describes it. Why would I jettison chapters one through eleven because of the inconvenient reality of a 24 hour creation or literal Adam and Eve when there is in fact quality scientific evidence that illustrates a global worldwide flood? And we're going to get into some more of that evidence as we go through the week. But just to give you a super obvious one. Did you know that there are fish and oceanic fossils found on every mountaintop on planet Earth? How did they get there? Now, we're going to talk about how they got there and it's probably not what you think. Everybody assumes that the reason there are fish fossils at the top of mountains is because the flood rose to the height of, let's say, Mount Everest, the tallest mountain that exists today. That's actually not true. You don't know for certain that Mount Everest was Mount Everest during the flood itself because the flood was a massive geological tectonic level event. What you and I call continents today were being shifted and ripped apart and slammed into each other. In fact, the Appalachian Mountains that exist today did not exist in Noah's day. And I'll show it to you as we move forward. As those tectonic plates crashed into each other, whole mountain ranges were born. Whole island chains were wrought right out of the sea. So you don't have to have all the mountains that exist today in existence in Noah's day for there to be fossils at the top of the mountains. But what you do have to explain is why there were fish on the top of the Appalachian Mountains. That's not under contestation. It's been found. It's been proven. Now, deal. Guess what? Scripture explains it. So why do I have to back down from holding on to Genesis 1 through 11 when biologically, and I have a book at home. I didn't bring it. I apologize. But I have a book at home that shows how we can prove humanity came from a single set of family of ancestors. And then also there's there's geological evidence for a global worldwide flood. Speaking of evidence, for those who are here in the room, I have a resource table that's up here. That is half that table or books that I bought just to prepare for this week. The other half are books that I already owned because Genesis apologetics is very near to my heart, which is why I'm passionate about it. So I prepped the table of recommended resources for those of you who are readers, for those of you who this is not going to be enough and you want to dive into it for yourself. I have curated a list of books that I find to be valuable and probative from a Yom Earth perspective that deals with scientific evidence. In order to make it easier for you and for all of you who are watching this video after the fact, I already if you go into the catalyst app, there is now on the home screen, a button that says recommended readings. I already buried all the Amazon links for all of those books right there in the catalyst app. So you are free during any of our breaks to come up here, peruse the books. If you like one, there's a link in the catalyst app, go to Amazon, buy it for yourself. But these are the resources that I used to generate what I'm going to be teaching tonight. Now, tonight's lesson for you is going to be a little bit different from what the children are being taught. And the reason for that is, is tonight's lesson in the adult curriculum included an entire deep dive into the American political structure. And it tried to argue that America has moved away from its Christian origins in the same way that in Noah's day, people moved away from his Christian origins. And it literally took half the lesson talking about the Constitution and state constitutions in the formation of our country. I don't believe that that has a place in an apologetic conversation about the interpretation of Genesis and the global flood. So we're not doing that. And I had Pastor Tyler strike it from the teens as well. So the majority of everything I just shared with you on Genesis 1 through 11 is not in any of your children's lessons. But I think it's important because if I don't show you why we should study Genesis 1 through 11 in history, when we turn the page over and I start referring to Genesis 1 through 11 in history, I didn't properly answer the questions. So this is going to be our first break moment. So I just want to, what time is it? I got 717. So let's take a two minute break. You can get up, stretch around. If you want to come up and peruse the table of books, please do so. And then in two minutes, we'll come back, we'll flip the page and we'll go to the next section. All right, everybody, if I can ask you guys to come back, we're going to go ahead and get into the back half of our handout. That's the word. It's like I talk for a living. So please turn your handout over. And now we are going to talk about the pre-flood world. So in order to study the Genesis flood, we must recognize that the world we observe today is very different from both the original creation at Eden and the world as it was in the days of Noah before the flood. So here is a short introduction to the pre-flood world in Genesis. From creation to the flood, I'm going to teach you what they are teaching your children downstairs, and I'm going to teach you a way to interpret it. But first, in case your kids have questions, because several of the kids lessons involve the math of calculating the time between Adam and the flood. So if you are using a strict, and I mean, uber strict biblical chronology, there is approximately 1656 years between creation and the time of the flood. How did we get to that number? Here it is and all of the verses to match. So if you add all of those numbers together, you get to 1656 years. So what I would say is that is the absolute minimum number to get you from creation to Noah. Now here's what I need you to understand. Remember when I told, or if you were here a few Sundays ago, I told you that Hebrew genealogies are notoriously difficult because they do not make a distinction between father, grandfather, and great grandfather, or son, grandson, and great grandson. So in the Hebrew language, descendant can be son, can be grandson, can be great grandson. In our language, we have a different word for each generation. The Hebrew language does not do this. Ancestor means ancestor. Descendant means descendant. And if you look at the genealogies and the way they are laid up and the way they are grouped into certain groups, just like in Matthew, when you look at Matthew's genealogy of Jesus, it's 14 generations from this to this, 14 generations from this to this, 14 generations from this to this. Hold on. No, I usually sneeze in threes. That was something special for you all. Thank you. So here's what I will say. I think it is reasonable to see that in the genealogies within the book of Genesis, there is telescoping. So there can be a little bit of expansion here. 1,656 years is absolutely the minimum number. But given that we know the Hebrew language doesn't have different words like we do for son, grandson, and grandfather, we also know they generally frame their genealogies in sections. It is very textually reasonable, almost probable at this point, to assume that there is some condensation of the Genesis genealogies. So I am willing to offer you the slide. But there is not enough genealogies to get you to 100,000 years or a million years or a billion years. Right. It's reasonable to assume you might be able to expand 1,656 years out to four, maybe 5,000 years max, because there are some generations that could be condensed. So when I tell you that there is 1,656 years from creation to the Genesis flood, that is a hyper literal and also assuming zero generational context. I would say there's got to be at least one or two based on the framing of everything. And so I'm comfortable expanding this 1,656 out to 3,000. Some scholars might even push it to 5,000, but you're not getting to 10,000 and you're not getting anything beyond 10,000. And that 10,000 number is very important for what we're going to go to next. So I just need to understand that in a young earth creationist view, you do not have to take the absolute minimum number from scripture. But you cannot just expand it to as far as you want it to go. Miss Casey, are you standing because I'm doing something wrong? OK, just check. When the sound tech stands up, you got to ask if there's a problem. So the way the classes are being taught to the kids downstairs, they're using the absolute minimum number. The hyper literal young earth creationist position. However, remember I told you we use a grammatical historical method. It is natural to the Hebrew language to condense genealogies in order to make a theological point. That is a grammatical construct of their language. So it is not wrong for us to maybe telescope out to a couple thousand years, but it is way wrong to try to get to 10,000 or anything beyond 10,000 years. But the minimum number, the hyper literalist number is 1,656. You are well within your rights as a good grammatical Bible student. You could go to 3,000, 4,000. I'd say 5,000 is probably max. And you're definitely not getting to 10,000. So that is the timeline of getting from creation to the flood from the scriptural record. Now let's go over to the right and let's look at the land conditions of the pre-flood world. The pre-flood land was likely one singular supercontinent that is often called Pangea. Or if you study geology, you may have heard Rodinia. So let me explain this. Is there anybody in the room who has no idea what Pangea is? So I need to start with what Pangea is. All right. Pangea is the theory that all of the continents of the world fit together like puzzle pieces. If you've ever looked at the eastern coastline of North America, South America, and how it magically matches the eastern coastline of Europe and into Africa. Yeah, if you take those two, they fit together exactly like puzzle pieces. I'll go one step further. There is geological evidence to prove that the eastern coast of North America, excuse me, yeah, the east coast of North America and the western coast of Europe and Africa do actually fit together and were at one time one continent. Here it is. Something I learned this week. I thought it was super cool. The Appalachian mountain range that exists in eastern North America. It extends and then it stops because our continent falls off into the ocean. But when you take North America and you slide it next to Europe and Africa, there is a mountain range that starts in Great Britain that extends into Norway and extends into southern Russia that has the same exact sedimentary composition as the Appalachian mountains of North America. And when you put the two together, they create one unbroken line of mountains that match geologically, that match positionally and match compositionally. Those mountains are made of the same stuff. So you tell me what's more reasonable that two mountain ranges on two different continents that are separated by an entire ocean somehow evolved with the same exact geological composition in the same layers. They match together side by side. Is that more reasonable or is it more reasonable that on this one supercontinent, it was actually one mountain range that then through tectonic shift separated and we now call them two different things because we call the continent of Europe and the continent of North America by different terms. But I find it too odd of a coincidence that if you put the two continents back together, the mountain range is unbroken and contains the same sedimentary rock layers. So that's real world evidence today that there was in fact an original supercontinent called Pangea or also called Rodinia. So I had never heard of Rodinia until I started studying for you this week. So let me explain the difference. In school, kids are taught about Pangea. Pangea is the theory that all the world's continents fit together. I would submit to you that that theory has some very real scientific evidence and should be taken seriously. And it is also not in conflict with scripture. The idea that because what does scripture say when God created the heavens and the earth, he separated the waters into one place. What happens when you separate the waters into one place? What's left in the other place? Land. It is completely within scripture to see God of creating land in one place and then through tectonic shift, it's separated. That's completely within the bounds of scripture. In fact, tectonic shift would also explain a global worldwide flood really, really good. But what's the difference between Pangea and Rodinia? Here it is. There are certain mountain ranges that are older than other mountain ranges on planet Earth. The Appalachian mountain range is one of the younger mountain ranges. The theory is that the original supercontinent was Rodinia. And through some sort of random catastrophic event, Rodinia fractured and parts of it crashed into each other. So I want you to imagine the line that separates North America from Europe and Africa cracked. And then Jim, they slammed into each other. And during that crash, what happens? The mountain range that you and I now call the Appalachian mountains with its European and Russian brother were created. Rodinia cracks. They crash into each other. Pangea is created with new mountain ranges. And then it separates. That's what Pangea and Rodinia are. And the reason we can theorize this is because of the geological makeup of certain mountain ranges being younger than other mountain ranges. And there's nothing wrong with that. And I have to tell you, I think not only is it not anti-biblical, it fits completely if there was, in fact, a global catastrophic worldwide flood. So that's the idea of the land conditions pre-Noah. I need you to think one giant supercontinent. Everything is one landmass. Some mountain ranges that exist today likely did not exist in a pre-flood world. I kind of already explained that with the breakup of Rodinia, the continental crash that creates Pangea, and then the continental break that you and I have today. So just because there's a mountain range that exists today does not require that that mountain range existed in Noah's day. There was a pre-flood supercontinent, and it likely did have some highs and some lows, but it's not required that every single mountain range that exists today existed then. And that's something that people who want to accuse the flood of being unrealistic, they're like, oh, you really believe that the flood covered Mount Everest? No, but you assumed Mount Everest existed then, you had to prove it. You want to make that assumption? I mean, go for it. Prove to me that Mount Everest existed today. And then I'm going to come back and go, now, why are there fish fossils at the top of Mount Everest? Just out of curiosity. Third, the Genesis flood was a catastrophic worldwide event involving not just flooding, but plate tectonics and geophysical realignment. Those of you who really like science, you want to come visit the books on this table, especially the one that says the Genesis flood revisited by Andrew Snelling. Andrew Snelling is one of the world's most foremost Christian geologists. That book is filled with way more science than I needed to prep for you tonight. But those of you who want to geek out about like science and geology, you know, Caleb, you want a book to take back to school and like absolutely thrill people with? That's your book, man. Just get that one. Just be prepared to have a dictionary next to you because Dr. Snelling uses some words that I never heard before like Rodinia. I had to learn about it so I could bring it to you. But when we talk about the Genesis flood, I need you to understand we are not just talking about rain. We are not just talking about it rained for 40 days and 40 nights and that amount of water flooded the earth. The Bible talks about the fountains of the deep springing forth. Water erupted from beneath the ground and fell from the sky. And that is what flooded the original supercontinent, whether it be Pangea or Rodinia. We are not just talking. People would say, oh, you think it's a lot of rain, 40 days. I don't know why all the doubters sound like Mr. T in my head, but they do. A punitive fool that believes in a flood. Right? That's just the way my brain thinks. We do not have to argue that it only rained. We are talking about a geophysical event. Plate tectonics, earthquakes. I mean, just think about it. When there's an earthquake today, what happens to the ocean? Tsunami. Imagine if there was one global supercontinent that broke up and rifted and it created multiple tsunamis. As well as fountain level geysers erupting from beneath and rainwater falling from the sky. It's not hard to see how all of the landmass of the world was ripped underwater. So I need you to understand, we're not just talking about rain. We're talking about plate tectonics and global flooding and all that fun jazz. And then finally, evidence for the supercontinent can be seen in the transcontinental latching of rock layers from the Appalachian Mountains of North America to the mountains of England, Norway, and Russia. I forgot that I wrote that in there, but I already told you. So that one mountain range is exactly the way it is. And that is wonderful scientific evidence that supports the existence of a supercontinent, which is completely in line with what the scripture says about the pre-flood world. Is everybody tracking with me so far? All right. The bottom three boxes of this pre-flood world are me answering three of the largest objections to a global worldwide flood. If you choose to stand with me in the Young Earth Creationist Camp, these are three arrows that will be fired at you. And I wanted you to have a pre-exposure to them and answers to these accusations. So the first is this, copying Gilgamesh. It is often asserted that the story of the Genesis flood is a later copy of the Epic of Gilgamesh, a Babylonian flood story. While there are many similarities between the two, this does not require primacy of the Babylonian story. The differing details, the pettiness of Babylonian gods, and differing details also align to the Babylonian version being a product of oral transmission of the Genesis flood account that was changed over time. So people want to say, well, we know the Babylonian flood story is older than the Genesis flood story. So therefore, the Genesis flood must in fact be a copy of the Babylonian flood. That's the accusation. Here's how you parry that. We don't have to argue that the Genesis version of the flood story was written down before the Babylonian version of the flood story. We don't have to argue this because that's assuming that the flood story was invented when it was written down. But that's an assumption that's false. When Moses is receiving the book of Genesis from God at Mount Sinai, he's not writing about a flood that happened during his lifetime. He is writing about events that happened generations before him, before the Babylonian story ever existed. So the idea that the Genesis flood is merely copying the Babylonian flood is trying to make us say something we're not saying. I'm not saying that Moses could have written down the flood story after the Babylonian version, even though I think that that's false. I don't have to argue that premise. Moses is writing something that happened within two to three thousand years of creation itself. It's very plausible that the Genesis version of the story is in fact the real version because it's much more narrative based. It's much cleaner in its delivery of the details and it has a whole lot less of that polytheistic dribble-drabble between gods and sleeping with humans and pettiness and all that kind of stuff. It is just as believable, I argue more believable, that the Genesis version is actually the original version. Because if you want to claim that the Babylonian version is the original version and the Genesis flood, which is the second oldest flood story in creation, is in fact a copy, you still have to explain why every other people group in all of the world has a flood story. And most of them get their details which match the Genesis flood story. It seems more reasonable to me that the Genesis flood story is the original, even though we didn't write it down until later. We're claiming it happened way earlier. And then that would make sense that as Noah and his sons and their wives spread out, that information would have made it to the Tower of Babel seen in Genesis 11. And then as those languages got changed and those people groups began to spread out as God instructed, details from the story get changed over time. But there is so significant a match between the Babylonian story and the Genesis flood story that there's no doubt one came from the other. I just argue it's the other way around. The story that has a more clear narrative beginning to end versus a bouncing back and forth, which one makes more sense? That over time a story got more ordered or over time a story got less ordered? To me, the idea that other details got added in makes more sense and the Genesis is the original. So no, we do not have to accept the accusation that the Genesis flood story is copying Gilgamesh. We could turn around and say, no, Gilgamesh is actually copying the Genesis flood story because the claim is the Genesis flood story happened way earlier. And the evidence for that is the Genesis flood story has a clear narrative beginning to end. It doesn't have all of the polytheistic breaks in it. It's more reasonable to assume that the Babylonians copied the original flood story, even though you want to say it was written earlier. We are claiming the event happened before the Babylonian writing. Everybody OK with that? All right. Let's go down to no North American flood and then we'll go over and we'll end racial diversity before we get to Q&A. So no North American flood. One point that is often made to argue against a global flood is the absence of any evidence of a global flood within the last 12,000 years in North America. It is claimed since it's been established, humans have been living in North America for the past 12,000 years. The Genesis flood had to be local and not global. The line of argumentation is built on radiometric dating methods, which themselves are suspect and unreliable. Major radiometric dating begins with unproved assumptions, which are completely which completely undermines its credibility. So this is why I needed you to understand. You can't stretch Genesis 1 to 11 to be 10,000 years because our detractors, our objectors are going to come at us and say, Jim, we know that people have been living in North America for 12,000 years. And since they have been, there's no way your flood could be global if you're claiming it happened before 10,000 years. And I'm going to say, OK, how do you know that humans have been living here? Well, radiometric dating tells us stop. Anybody who quotes radiometric dating is automatically suspect because radiometric dating, I don't have time to go into it because I'm running out of time. But radiometric dating begins with certain assumptions that are automatically unproven. They're assumed in order to use the method. If you want a deeper dive on radiometric dating, just talk to me after the fact. I'll talk to you all about the rate or ATE group that met and studied radiometric dating. But the basic analogy is this. If I put a glass of ice water in front of you and then I time how long it takes the ice to melt to be only a glass of water. Right. And we time it. Well, it took 10 minutes for the ice cubes to melt and there only be liquid water in the glass. And then you measure the volume of water and say, this is why we know that this cup was solid ice 30 minutes ago. That's what radiometric dating does. See, radiometric dating measures the half life of how certain things break down over time, but then assumes that there was no presence of those half lives at the beginning. That's an unfounded assumption. Just in the same way that if I put a glass of ice water in front of you that have some ice cubes and some liquid water, I'm not justified in assuming the entire glass was ice to begin with. But that's what radiometric dating does. It says there were no daughter elements at the beginning of creation. How do you know that? Well, you know, we don't. Well, then your entire method is bungus. That's a technical term. You can use it. So the fact that radiometric dating calls into question everything we know if you're going to date something means we do not have to accept the North American flood argument. And the final one, Noah and racial diversity. It has been suggested that the only way to have a global flood and today's racial diversity is if Noah had one black son, one white son and one brown son. The idea is based on faulty assumptions or poor logic. Stop. Let me explain. Today we have a wonderful plethora of skin tones within American humans and within global humans. We have some who have deeply melanin dark skin. We have others who have middle melanin skin like my ancestors from Polynesia. So the suggestion is that the only way to have white Anglo Europeans and deeply beautiful Melanin Africans and brown South Americans and Polynesians is if Noah had one white son, one black son and one brown son. That's the accusation. It makes threefold sense. First, it assumes that Noah was a white Anglo European man, which is never stated in the Bible at all. It's an assumption. You've assumed that Bible characters are white. Why? Because all the people who translated the Bible into English were white Anglo Europeans. But that doesn't mean the people in the Bible are white Anglo Europeans. In fact, if there was, in fact, one white Anglo European man, it would be a white Anglo European man. So why are we calling them white Europeans when the entire continent of Europe was somewhere within the landmass of Pangaea Rodina? Just stupid. Number two, it assumes that the range of skin colors in humans today had to be the same in Noah's day for them to exist. This is a faulty assumption. I have a photograph on my phone. I forgot to give it to Melanie to put it in. But Melanie's sister, youngest sister, her name is Katie. She married a very, very beautiful black man. Her two children, who were born to the same exact same race, were born to the same same race. And they were all white. And the reason why they were all white was because they were all white was because they were all white. And they are full genetic brother and sister. So much so that when my brother-in-law takes his son into public, people ask him if he has the wrong baby. Because my brother-in-law is beautifully black and his son is like pale white. And that is his biological white. And that is the reason why he was born black. And that is the reason why he was born black. And that is the reason why he was born black. Because my brother-in-law is beautifully black and his son is like pale white. And that is his biological son. See, here's the problem. What makes skin tones so different? What makes Mr. Rod's skin and my skin look so different are actually alleles within human DNA. The assumption here is that the alleles which govern, and this is point number three, it assumes that the alleles for both light skin and dark skin were not present in early humanity. Well, why is that the case? Why are we assuming that the humans who lived in Noah's day, number one, were all white Anglo-Europeans, and number two, did not possess an allele for dark skin? Neither one of those assumptions are proven and yet both of them are assumed, if you have to assume Noah had a white son, a black son, and a brown son. Here's the reality. If there was one supercontinent, then there was only one people group. And that one people group was most likely brown, not white, nor black, but brown. Somewhere between Ms. Dottie's skin tone and probably my skin tone. Definitely not lighter than me and I would argue probably not darker than Ms. Dottie. Now, if humanity started on a supercontinent, they all had one language before the Tower of Babel, which means they had one culture, which means anybody who intermarried would have likely stayed within the same kind of brown level skin tone. Then, when the Tower of Babel happens and people separate, it's super easy that Ms. Dottie's skin tone moves into Sub-Saharan Africa and gets a little darker. Some of my people leave and we move to the islands. In fact, my father is slightly darker than me. And then some other people, Ms. Gretchen's people, they move up into what is now Europe. They move into much more alpine and snowy Viking-like places and they get whiter. There's nothing wrong with that. But the assumption that the alleles which govern human skin color didn't exist in Noah's day is a completely unproven assumption. You would have to show genetically how you know that in order to make such a gross assumption that white, black, and brown aren't there.