Tonight, I have been waiting all week for tonight because tonight we get to talk about what I think is maybe the most complicated part of believing that Noah's Ark is historical and not legendary. And that is, what about dinosaurs? So, we are going to spend the evening embarking through a combination of what the Bible says about the story of the ark and also what scientific evidence exists for dinosaurs and try to understand how the two of those things can go together. And I want to say upfront that whenever you talk about the ark, and especially when I get the chance to talk to students and kids, where are dinosaurs in the Bible is always a question. There are a couple of questions. If I go to a Q&A with any group of kids all the way through teenagers, I am going to get the dinosaur question. I am going to get the UFO question. And I am going to get the did Adam and Eve have belly buttons question. That is just, they are going to happen. So, your handout tonight has the same title on both sides because it is a true two-handed handout. But we are going to start on the side where the first box says World View Matters. So, that is going to be side A for tonight's conversation. So, in the World View Matters box it says, when approaching the topic of dinosaurs and the Bible, Oh, Dino, I am sorry. Did we start the recording? Fantastic. Then we will just start back at the beginning of that sentence. When approaching the topic of dinosaurs and the Bible, we must be clear about the worldview in which evidence will be evaluated. A biblical worldview does not discount or ignore science as a means of learning about creation. Most, if not all, of the individuals credited as pioneers or founders of major scientific disciplines were explicitly Christian or believed in God. The reason they embarked on the journey of scientific discovery is because they believed in a God who created an ordered world they could learn from. This is the same way we will approach the topic of dinosaurs. Scripture informs our evidence-based evaluation. So, here are the foundational facts for our presentation of dinosaur-related evidence in a biblical worldview. It is so important that when somebody tells you, well, science says, I need you to understand, science never says anything. Scientists say things, but science doesn't say things. Science is merely a method of learning through observation. If anybody remembers, when you were in school, you learned a scientific method, you create a hypothesis, you have an idea about what could or could not be true, and then you test that idea through experimentation, and through repeated experimentation, you start to find reliable data, and then you either correct your hypothesis, or if it continues to be reliable, maybe you get upgraded to a theory, and then eventually a law if it's guaranteed all the time. The scientific method is a wonderful way to evaluate and learn about creation. But at the end of the day, it is learning through observation, which means whatever your preconceived ideas are, they are like the glasses that you wear when you evaluate evidence. And this is one of the major myths that exist, is the idea that there is a war going on between science and faith. There is zero war between science and Christianity. In fact, modern science as we know it today was started by Christians. Almost all of the most famous pioneers throughout scientific history were Christians. Isaac Newton, Christian. Johannes Kepler, Christian. A guy who looked through his telescope, heliocentric part of the universe. Galileo, thank you, somebody said it. Christian. So we do not have to fear science-based evidence, but we have to admit that depending on what your preconceived notions are going in, you will read the evidence differently, and based on those lenses, you may come to different conclusions. If I gave you a set of glasses that was tinted red, anybody ever remember those like secret messages you could find in crackerjack boxes? You had to look through the red film. Why? Because the red film filtered out all the red garbage and it allowed you to see through. That is exactly what a worldview does. A worldview changes the tint on your glasses, and certain things are let in, and certain things are ruled out. So I want to establish, before I move into where are dinosaurs in the Bible, I want to establish what the biblical worldview or the biblical approach to the topic of dinosaurs is, because that's super important. So in your first box here under worldview matters, sixth day creation. Dinosaurs are commonly understood as land-dwelling, air-breathing creatures. They were created on the sixth day along with all other land animals. If we read the story of creation, and as I said in night one of this week, I think the only way to do the text justice is to view them exactly as Genesis describes, as six 24-hour periods of creation. God created land-dwelling, air-breathing animals on the sixth day when he also created humanity. If dinosaurs are land-dwelling, air-breathing animals, they were created on the sixth day. Second, I want to dispel an argument up front. The word dinosaur is not in the Bible. Anybody ever heard that? The word dinosaur is not in the Bible, so the Bible doesn't have anything to say about it. That's not true. And here's exactly why the word dinosaur is not in the Bible. The word dinosaur wasn't invented until 1842. It doesn't appear in the text of the Bible because it didn't exist when the Bible was written. Isn't that simple? We did not invent the word dinosaur the way we use it today. The word dinosaur is literally a combination of two Latin words, terrible and lizard, and that's how you get dino, sour, or dinosaur. That word did not even exist in English language until 1842. Why is it possibly reasonable to believe that because the word dinosaur doesn't exist in a text that was written thousands of years before the word dinosaur was ever invented, that the Bible doesn't have anything to say about it? That's why I started the first point with the sixth day of creation. The Bible does have things to say about air-breathing, land-dwelling creatures like dinosaurs. But just because the word dinosaur isn't in the Bible doesn't mean the Bible doesn't have anything to say. The other side of that argument sometimes comes from well-meaning but mistaken Christians who think since the word dinosaur isn't in the Bible that it doesn't matter. I would also say that is false. It does matter. And it does matter because of box number three right here, fossil evidence. Fossilized remains of animals that lived in the past is tangible evidence. It should be studied. Christians should not fear evaluating evidence. So I need to state my position up front. I am saying clearly the Bible's description of creation is that land-dwelling air-breathing animals were created on day six, on the same day that God reached into the earth and breathed into earth. Mankind. I am also saying that there is legitimate fossilized evidence of creatures that lived and died in the past. And we should not fear examining evidence. For all the same reasons that the pioneers of the scientific community studied the evidence. They studied it because they believed that God created an ordered universe. Has anybody ever heard of the theory of the two books? Anybody? Okay. I'm going to tell you anyway. Here's how it goes. God is the author of scripture. True or false? True. God is also the creator of nature. True or false? True. God is also fully omnipotent and all-knowing. True or false? So if it is true that God is the author of scripture and it is true that God is the author of nature and it is true that God is all-knowing. Whenever we come to an understanding of scripture and an understanding of nature that are at odds with one another. It cannot be that God is wrong because he is all-knowing. It can be that we have misinterpreted scripture. It can be that we have misinterpreted nature. And it also can be that we misinterpreted both. But if God is fully omnipotent, he is fully almighty. Then the Christian who believes in an almighty God should have no fears about studying scripture and studying nature. When they are at odds with one another, it is one or both interpretations that is flawed, not God himself. Does that make sense? God's the creator and the author of scripture. So that is my position. My position is that they were created on the sixth day along with mankind. Which does mean that humans and dinosaurs lived at the same time and I will get to that when we turn the page. But before I get there, I really want to dive onto fossil evidence for a moment. Because this I think is one of those things that they try to attack us with. They try to attack the biblical community and say, you can't explain fossils and it takes millions of years and whatever. So let's talk about fossils for a minute. Just because an animal lived and died in the past does not mean it will become a fossil. What happens to animals today that die on the side of the road or in the wilderness? If there's bodies are left in the open, scavengers in the process of decomposition will reduce the remains naturally. In order for it... You want to change out the mic? Okay. Pause just a second. Reading the fossil creation box. Yes, ma'am. Just because an animal lived and died in the past does not mean it will become a fossil. What happens today to animals that die on the side of the road or in the wilderness? If their bodies are left in the open, scavengers and the process of decomposition will reduce the remains naturally. In order for an animal's remains to become a fossil, it requires three key things. Does everyone understand that? I'm sure most of us in this room are adults who either drive cars or are old enough to have driven in cars and seen roadkill on the side of the road. Roadkill doesn't become a fossil. Why? Because as soon as it's dead, there are other creatures in creation that either will tear it up, they will eat it, it will then succumb to the natural process of decomposition and it will return back to the elements of this planet. That is a very obvious natural thing. So let's talk about what it takes to make a fossil. You need all three of these key items. First, you need rapid burial. Rapid burial is required for fossil creation. If animal remains are not rapidly buried, the remains will be scavenged or decomposed. Does that make sense? The entire reason that roadkill does not become a fossil is because it stays open to the elements, to decomposition and to scavenging animals. So in order to become a fossil, the very first thing you must have is the creature must be rapidly buried. However, just because you're rapidly buried does not mean you are become a fossil. You could be rapidly buried and still decompose and turn back into soil. So in addition to rapid burial, you also require a low oxygen environment. A low oxygen environment is required for fossil creation. The presence of oxygen aids in decomposition and ruins remains before fossilization can take place. So just because a creature is rapidly buried doesn't mean it's going to become a fossil. It must be rapidly buried and then it must be buried and contained in a low oxygen environment. Does that make sense? If you rapidly bury something and it still has enough access to oxygen, it will decompose. It will not fossilize. However, you can rapidly bury something in a low oxygen environment and it still not become a fossil. You need the third piece of this puzzle. Mineral rich water. Here's why. Mineral rich water is required for fossil creation. Petrification or the process of minerals replacing organic tissue can't happen without it. So I just want you to picture for a moment a squirrel. A squirrel dies and is rapidly buried at the bottom of a sand pit. Well, sand is rather porous. There's a lot of air that's going to get in there. The squirrel is not going to become a fossil. It's just going to decay and decompose. Now we take that same squirrel and we rapidly bury him in something like the clay in the state of Georgia. Georgia red clay. Now you're buried and the clay is less porous than the sand, so you're definitely going to get a lower oxygen environment. But if that clay does not possess a high enough mineral water content, the minerals from the clay have to replace the organic material in order for something to become petrified. So that's what petrified means. Something organic turned into something made out of rock. How did that happen? Minerals that are either in mineral water or also in mineral ground, but most of the time it's transferred from water into organic material because the water can make it through the ground. So if you do not have rapid burial and a low oxygen environment and mineral rich water, you cannot make a fossil. So if that's true, and again, you are free to Google this information when I'm done. You can look all of this up. I didn't make it up. I double checked all of it today as I was writing it. Even though I learned it and I knew it, I wanted to make sure there wasn't some new discovery that was going to jack up my teaching. So you need a rapid burial. You need a low oxygen environment and you need mineral rich water because it's the minerals in the water that will replace the organic material as it breaks down in the low oxygen environment. And that's what makes it into a petrified fossil. So now you've got the bottom box. Flood fossils. Given the Bible's description of a catastrophic worldwide flood, land dwelling air breathing animals that were not aboard the ark would have been rapidly buried in a low oxygen environment under the weight of a massive amount of mineral rich water. It is completely reasonable to conclude fossils discovered today were created during the global flood described in Genesis. Now, if you Google what it takes to make a fossil, Google is going to tell you one more thing that I didn't tell you. Number one, because my box, my pages all have three boxes and I needed to look nice for my ADHD. Number two, I disagree with the fourth thing. So if you Google it, it's going to tell you. Yep. You need rapid burial. You need low oxygen. You need mineral rich water. And the fourth thing you need or that they claim you need is millions of years. So I went OK. And I love having conversations with chat GPT and perplexity. So I went over to chat GPT and I said, is it true that you require rapid burial, low oxygen and high mineral rich water for a living thing to become a fossil? Chat GPT says yes, that is absolutely true. You require those three things and you require millions of years for the petrification process to occur. Science agrees. You must also have millions of years. I said, OK, follow up question chat GPT. If the Genesis flood happened, as the Bible describes, and the animals that died in the flood spent a year being buried in a low oxygen environment beneath the crushing weight of mineral rich water. Would the weight and pressure of the water decrease the amount of time for petrification to take place? And chat GPT said, well, yes, it actually would. But no scientist agrees that the Genesis flood is real. So we can't agree with your point. That's what chat GPT told me today. Because they are convinced that nothing else can do what millions of years can do. They're going to add it as a fourth thing. Now, do you see where the worldview comes in? I came up with a completely plausible scientific reason that can make a fossil in less than two million years. But chat GPT and the scientific community at large denies it. Not because the physical process isn't true. The physical process is not true. Not because the physical process isn't true. The physical process is absolutely true. The animals that died in the flood were buried rapidly in a low oxygen environment covered in mineral rich water. The other thing is they were buried under immense pressure, the kind of pressure we see at the bottom of the ocean today. And that pressure lasted for more than a year. And when I asked chat GPT to calculate if a fossil could be created in a year underneath of all of that crushing weight, it said, yes. But no scientist agrees with you. Okay. Like all I wanted to know is am I asking something that's true? I didn't ask you if everyone else agreed with me or not. Because here's what I know. That's called the popular, which fallacy is that now? The popularity fallacy? Just because something, just because a group of people believe it doesn't make it true. Right? If I were to poll everybody in this room about what the best ice cream flavor is, and all of y'all are saved, so the obvious answer is peanut butter. And so everybody says peanut butter. Just because everyone agrees with you doesn't mean you're right. It just means your answer is popular. I asked it, could the weight, the crushing weight of the Genesis flood do that? And it said, absolutely. But scientists who study fossils don't believe in the flood. So if you don't have the mechanism of the flood, then you need the millions of years. Do you see how that works? That's why I needed to establish worldview up front. I needed to show you the lenses that you wear when evaluating the data to totally change what you get out of the data. And we're going to watch a video in the next half that takes this to a whole other level. So whenever somebody tells you, well, science says, or well, we know, right, you must understand, do I agree with all the presuppositions that they have? Because the scientific community today operates under a theory called something naturalism, methodological naturalism. Thank you. Good job, Mel. Methodological naturalism. What methodological naturalism, it's a giant term, and here's what it means. All scientific experiments must be done as if there is no God. That's what methodological, the method of naturalism, everything's natural. Science operates on the idea of methodological naturalism. Every science experiment is looking for a natural answer, not a supernatural answer. So therefore, every science experiment must be performed as if God does not exist. So that means whatever answer you come up with is automatically going to confirm that God doesn't exist, not because you did confirm his non-existence, but you assumed it before your experiment ever began. That's what methodological naturalism is. And that's why, when I asked chat GPT, could the crushing weight of the Genesis flood have sped up the petrification of all of these creatures? Yes. Okay. I'm fine with that because you told me what is scientifically accurate. You didn't tell me what's scientifically popular. And this is where things like the Creation Museum in Kentucky, there are whole branches of creation science that says, no, we believe that there is a God who created the world, and that it is wrong to ignore that truth when examining his creation. If the Book of Nature and the Book of Scripture need to agree, it's also not wrong to take the truths that Scripture presents us and ask us, do they fit with our observations of the planet? Now, this is where the whole Young Earth, Old Earth debate comes in, right? I'm on the Young Earth side because when Scripture and my interpretation of Scripture and my interpretation of nature do not agree, I default to my interpretation of Scripture. I'm a theologian, not a geologist. That doesn't mean that I don't believe that we study science. I just mean that in this instance, when it comes to fossils, I start with the truth. Scripture says God created all air breathing land dwelling animals on day six. That includes everything we would call a dinosaur. Scripture then, a few chapters later, describes a global, catastrophic geological event in which all air breathing land dwelling animals drowned and were buried. And now I see that fossils can only be created with rapid burial, low oxygen, mineral rich water, and the intense pressures of an ocean or millions of years of deep time. Well, the flood gives me the immense pressure of the water that explains the existence of the fossils. Did I just drop out again? All right, stand by. So does this make sense to everyone? We do not have to abandon our biblical worldview. We do not have to abandon a literal interpretation of Genesis. We can understand the flood. We can understand when dinosaurs were created. We can also understand when they died. Now the next question you're going to ask me, was there dinosaurs on the ark? Yes. So let's turn the page over and let's talk about humans and dinosaurs. Okay, so humans and dinosaurs. The Bible describes dinosaurs and people being created on the same day of creation week. This directly implies humans and dinosaurs lived in creation at the same time. This is a big claim that stands directly opposed to the idea that humans and dinosaurs are separated by millions of years of evolution. Is there any evidence that supports the Bible's description of creation? In fact, there is. So I am going to offer you three pieces of tangible evidence to support my claim that the Bible's true and that dinosaurs were created on the same day that humans were. So Dino, can we please look at the Cambodian stegosaurus? The image that you are currently looking at is a stone carving depicting a stegosaurus that was discovered in a column of artwork at a temple in Cambodia and dated to before 1000 AD, which means before modern archaeology, before our digging up and discovery of fossils. And you put that image in front of any child and they're going to come to the simple conclusion that whoever carved that image into that stone had some kind of idea of what you and I today call the stegosaurus. I also need to understand that that's probably not its original name. Right? Adam and Eve would have given them names. That's probably Bob. Okay? Spike. Yeah, that'll work. Spike. But that is a tangible piece of evidence that's not made up and that's not even in the Bible. That is a tangible piece of history that if you tried to travel all the way to the temple in Cambodia, you can do it. The second piece of evidence, the African sauropod. This is drawn on the inside of a cave on the African continent. A cave drawing discovered in South Africa, which appears to show a group of long neck animals next to a three-toed reptilian looking footprint. I'm not a super big dinosaur expert, but I seem to remember from watching a lot of like dinosaur cartoons as a kid, that looks an awful lot like a brachiosaurus with a big tail. Again, you put that image in front of a child who's not going to overthink it. The problem is you put that image in front of somebody who's committed to believing that humans and dinosaurs are separated by millions of years, and they will give you any explanation under the sun other than the obvious one, which is whoever draw that saw that. Right? To me, I'm looking for the explanation that requires the least amount of hoops and offers the best amount of explanation. To me, whoever saw it, draw it is way easier than, no, no, in actuality, you're looking, you know what the explanation is? Let me show you. So those of you watching online, I'm walking out of camera. Sorry. Here's the explanation I was given. This right here is two legs of a hunter. This right here is another two legs of a hunter, and they are holding a very large snake. Right? You want to tell me that's what that looks like? Does that look like two hunters holding a snake or does that look like a brachiosaurus? Absolutely. So again, whoever draw it, saw it, makes more sense than coming up with some other cockamamie explanation because, and here's why worldview is so important. When you are committed to believing that dinosaurs and humans are separated by millions of years, I sound like I'm in the tin foil hat club right now. Don't I? I know I sound crazy. I know I sound ridiculous. That's why I needed you to see actual tangible evidence outside of scripture that's in my interpretation of what the Bible says. That joker makes complete sense. But if you didn't believe both of those pieces of evidence, this one's going to blow your mind. So Dino, please roll the clip. What happened next happened by mistake. Mary put some fragments of the bone in acid to dissolve away the outermost layer of mineral, but the acid worked too fast and all the mineral dissolved away. Being a fossil, there should have been nothing left, but there was, and it was elastic like living tissue. This is the piece. No. She showed us video she took under the microscope. That's really what happened? Yes. That's the dinosaur bone? Yeah, without mineral now. That's what was left. It looked like the soft tissue she would have expected to find if it had been modern bone. This was impossible. This bone was 68 million years old. So you see this and you think what? I didn't want to tell anybody. That you'd be ridiculed, right? Yes. And so I said to my technician, okay, do it again. I don't believe it. And yet in sample after sample, they were there. Things that look suspiciously like flexible, transparent blood vessels. She finally mustered the courage to tell Jack. She said she dissolved the bone away and there were blood vessels and I was shocked. How could that be? How could that be? That's right. The things Mary was finding inside dinosaur bones, blood vessels and even what seemed to be intact cells, pose a radical challenge to the existing rules of science that organic material can't possibly survive even a million years, let alone 68 million. Mary, Jack and their team published their B-Rex findings in a series of papers in the journal Science and were promptly attacked. Critics said their samples might have been contaminated or that the supposed blood vessels were actually something called biofilm, a type of slime. But as Mary showed us, she's been able to replicate her findings. These are pieces of an even older dinosaur, a well preserved 80 million year old duck bill. When she dissolved it away in acid. Let's put this under the scope here. Well, look, is that a blood vessel? This is a blood vessel. You see the branches right there and look at all of them. And it's so consistent over and over and over again. We do this bone and it comes out and I get excited every time. I can't help it. I mean, 80 million years old. Mary published her new results last year. And while some of her critics have been swayed, the controversy still rages and the stakes are high. If blood vessels can survive 80 million years, what about DNA? OK, turn the lights on. I want you to hear what she just said in that last clip. She said it's willing to challenge the scientific paradigm. But what exactly are they challenging? They're challenging. Well, maybe blood vessels can actually last 80 million years. They're not challenging. Maybe the blood vessels not actually 80 million years old. Right. So they're willing to challenge certain assumptions, but certain assumptions are beyond contestation. That's the worldview. That's the lenses that they're unwilling. Right. And now that's a scientific test that's been repeated more than 20 times. And every single time it comes out with soft tissue. They found collagen just like you and I have in our skin. So here's the question. Which is more reasonable? Did you got to come up with an excuse for how an 80 million year old fossil has still got collagen intact? Or the fossil is not 80 million years old. To me, the second explanation requires. Remember I told you requires less hoops, explains more stuff. It explains more stuff. And the reason I like this particular clip. So the first time the soft tissue dyno was introduced, it was introduced in a documentary called Is Genesis History by a guy named Del Tackett. You can find it online. It's a great documentary, but I didn't use that one because I wanted to show you one from 60 minutes. So you can't accuse me of just using a Christian author stuff like this is 60 minutes. They got nothing. They got no no love for proving the Bible. Right. But did you notice that the scientist wasn't willing to question that the fossil was 80 million years old? They were willing to question how does a fossil how does an 80 million year old fossil still have functional blood vessels? That's what they're willing to question. But not the idea that maybe the fossil is not 80 million years old. That's where the worldview is. So I realize I'm up here. If you're watching this online after the fact, I realize I'm sitting here in front of your screen and I look like the tin foil hat guy because I'm willing to say I'm pretty sure humans and dinosaurs live together. But I just offered you two pieces of historical evidence and one piece of contemporary scientific evidence that's been published in a twice in peer reviewed science journals. Like I'm not just making it up. I know I sound crazy and okay, so I might be a little crazy, but not on this particular issue. So I am here to tell you that it is completely acceptable both from the book of scripture and from observational data from the book of nature to have the opinion that humans and dinosaurs existed on planet Earth at the same time. But we still have a problem. What happened to the dinosaurs then? So let's go to your next box. Dinosaur fate. The inevitable question that arises from entertaining the idea that dinosaurs are not millions of years old, but have only been extinct for a thousand for a few thousand years is simple. What happened? Answering from a biblical worldview, there are two possible answers. It could be either, but without more data, it's difficult to know with certainty. The first environmental change. The Bible describes the flood as a catastrophic global event that changed major features of our planet. These changes directly shortened human life spans. That's not up for debate, right? We have evidence of that in scripture. It is very reasonable that some animals died due to the same changes that shortened human lives. That's very reasonable. God completely changed the planet. Some animals perhaps not able to adapt. If you don't want to buy that one, the second one is completely true. Hunted to extinction. Extinction is the disappearance of an animal as a result of hunting faster than the population can reproduce. There is no reason to assume dinosaurs were immune to being hunted by humans or by other animals. Has anybody ever heard of the Siberian tiger? OK, if you do a Google search or you go to YouTube, you can find the last video of the last known surviving Siberian tiger. It's a very small cat predator, a little bigger than a serval, but kind of smaller than a Great Dane. Looks like a tiger, walks around like a tiger. It's got a very extended nose, sharp teeth. Humans hunted that animal to extinction in the 1930s. The only reason I can prove to you it exists is there's video evidence. There's a silent video of a Siberian tiger in a cage. You can see it online right now. We hunted that thing to extinction. It's not unreasonable to assume that humans or other living predators hunted dinosaurs to extinction. Because remember, when animal kind came off the ark, it had to restart its population. There is no reason to believe, and here's the thing. There is no reason to believe that every animal that got off the ark is still alive today. We know that extinction happens. Sometimes humans are responsible for it. Sometimes other animals are responsible for it, right? But we know that extinction happens. So claiming that, well, we don't have any dinosaurs alive today, so your Noah's Ark story doesn't make sense. How is that? How is that even logically possible if we know that animals can go extinct? So again, to add to the tin foil hat club, God created humans and dinosaurs on the same day. Now another question, somebody's going to ask it, so I'm going to go ahead and hit it. Do I actually believe that full-sized grown dinosaurs were on the ark? No, I don't. I don't have to believe that. Because what's the purpose of the ark? Repopulation. Which means it would have been smarter to take younger animals, which are also smaller animals. So no, I don't have to explain how a full-sized Brachiosaurus and a full-on Jurassic Park-sized T-Rex are on the ark at the same time. No, I don't. I only merely need to explain how two of them survived on the ark in small form. You want to look at an explanation? Go look at an African elephant, the size of the African elephant and the size of its newborn baby. Very huge difference in size. Also, if there was an environmental change that changed human lives, it is very possible that animals post-flood did not grow to the same sizes as animals pre-flood. So you're asking me to measure a fossil pre-flood and explain its presence on the ark post-flood, but you don't know for certain, and nor do I, that animals were the same size pre- and post-flood. Our lifespans were different pre- and post-flood, so there's no reason to assume that either. I know it's super tinfoil-hatty, but are you with me so far? Alright, one last thing I want to point out, because this question usually comes up when we talk about dinosaurs. Ice age. The Genesis Flood was a global event that changed not only the surface of the planet, but also the atmosphere. As more water vapor and volcanic gases filled the sky, less solar heat penetrated the cloud cover. The massive amount of water, combined with lower temperatures, can easily explain the onset of an ice age. An ice age is defined as a period of time when permanent ice sheets cover at least one of the planet's poles. That means we are currently living in an ice age that could easily be explained as beginning at the end of the global Genesis Flood. If you didn't know it, congratulations girls, you're living in an ice age. If you look it up, are we living in an ice age? Google will tell you that we've been living in an ice age that began over two million years ago. Right? How do you know that? How do you know the ice age was two million years ago? No, unfortunately sweetheart, I'm older than Google, so I know. It hasn't been around since then. But here's what's interesting. Normally when we think about ice age, we think about an entirely frozen planet, right? We think about the entire world looked like Siberia and everybody had to have huge parkas. That's not what an ice age is. An ice age is when only one of the planet's poles are permanently covered in ice. Currently, there's ice at both poles on the planet right now. And it's been that way for my entire life, my mama's entire life, my grandmama's entire life. It's been that way since all of known recorded history. Well, if God's word is true and I'm allowed to use scripture as the lenses of my evidence-based interpretation of nature, then it makes sense to me that the geomechanical event that God used to cause the flood would have had lasting impacts. The overall temperature of planet Earth would have gone down, which means the ice sheets would have grown at both poles. That explains the ice age. That explains the major rivets in rock formations. That also explains more fossilization because ice stretches when it freezes, which increases pressure, which increases the ability to make fossils in arctic environments. So I'm sorry, but when you come at me with fossils and you come at me with dinosaurs, it all makes sense if I start with scripture as a lens and say, how could I explain these mechanics? The flood explains it and it even explains why we're currently in an ice age and I don't have to wait two million years.