Intro to Worldviews
Tuesday, August 22, 2023 12:21 PM
Intro to Worldviews
1: What is a worldview?
2: What does a worldview do?
3: Why is understanding worldviews important?
4: Worldview Review: The Worldviews
Worksheet
1: WHAT IS A WORLDVIEW
A worldview is the "lens" through which we
interpret the world.
Each worldview has certain presuppositions, or
ideas that are assumed true beforehand, that
"color" everything else we see.
Experiment: Tinted Glasses
Ask individuals to wear the red and blue tinted
glasses.
Ask everyone to read the words on the screen.
Ask them to explain why we saw different
FMS Speaking Page 1

Ask them to explain why we saw different
things.
A worldview is the lenses through which we see
the world. Depending on the "color" of the
lenses, certain things will be visible or invisible.
Understanding this is powerful when it comes to
speaking with others about Christianity.
Not everyone is wearing the same color glasses!
2: WHAT DOES A WORLDVIEW DO?
A worldview answers key questions that are the
foundation of our interpretation of reality.
Each worldview answers the questions of the
world around us differently. They are each
trying to explain why the world is the way it is.
Worldview Questions:
Is there a god?
Where did the universe come from?
How are right and wrong determined?
What is evil?
Can miracles happen?
What happens when we die?
Together the way someone answers these
questions will directly affect the way they
understand and interact with the rest of the
FMS Speaking Page 2

understand and interact with the rest of the
world around them.
3: WHY IS UNDERSTANDING WORLDVIEW
IMPORTANT
Because we need to understand our own view
and the views of those who do not share our
faith.
When we speak to someone from a Christian
perspective, we are speaking to them with our
"lenses" on. This means we natively presuppose:
1: There is a God
2: There is an afterlife judgment for all humanity
3: Jesus died and resurrected to purchase
redemption
4: Salvation is a free gift
5: The Bible is God's Word
These facts are built into the way we explain
reality.
But not everyone agrees…
Question: Have you ever been speaking with
someone and they didn't see, understand, or
agree with what you were saying and you didn't
understand why?
FMS Speaking Page 3

understand why?
It's probably because they were viewing through
a different "lens" than you.
Understanding other worldviews will make us
more effective as evangelists, pastors, disciple-
makers, and ambassadors for Jesus.
3: WORLDVIEW REVIEW: ATHEISM
Please take a look at the handout "Worldviews
Worksheet"
A = Opposite or negation of
Theism = the existence of god
A-Theism = There is no god.
The technical name for the worldview that
supports atheism is "naturalism".
Naturalism teaches that only natural things
exist. The only things that are real are those that
have a physical composition. Nothing spiritual or
non-physical is real, it's just pretend "magic".
Each worldview is named by the way it views
god.
Naturalism: There is no god.
FMS Speaking Page 4

Deism: There is one unlimited, but absent
god.
Finitism: There is one god limited in power
and/or goodness.
Theism: There is one unlimited god.
Polytheism: There are multiple limited
gods.
Pantheism: Everything is god and god is
everything.
Panentheism: There is a god which is
always changing; god is both infinite and
finite.
FMS Speaking Page 5

Apologetics in Ministry
Wednesday, August 23, 2023 4:24 PM
My journey:
Grew up in church
Wilderness wandering
Came home and went to work!
Didn't start attending college until my late 30's.
Now working on my doctorate in theology and
apologetics.
1: Apologetics & Theology
2: New cultural landscape
3: Going back to the beginning
4: Examples of apologetics in ministry
1: Apologetics & Theology
The WHAT & The WHY
Theology teaches us WHAT to believe about God
Apologetics teaches us WHY we should believe it.
Both questions are necessary for good ministry.
If we teach our people WHAT to believe, but not WHY
to believe it, we are preparing them well enough. The
world will give them reasons to doubt.
Example:
Gen 1:1
"In the beginning, God created the heavens and the
earth."
FMS Speaking Page 6

Theology:
1. God the ultimate Creator who deserves our
worship.
2. The earth and all that is in it belong to God.
3. Nothing exists outside of God's dominion.
Apologetics:
1. Creation itself is evidence for the existence of
God.
2. The God who created the universe created space,
time, matter, and energy.
a. Spaceless
b. Timeless
c. Immaterial
d. Very powerful
e. *Personal (objects don't make decisions,
agents do)
f. *Moral (reality shows us there is good and
evil, right and wrong)
When the atheist says "There is no god."
The apologist responds, "How do you explain the
origin of the universe?"
2: New cultural landscape around us
We must recognize, there is a major culture shift
happening around us.
Like being at the beach by the water when the tide
comes in. We haven't moved, but the "tide" of culture
around us has shifted.
Analog has become digital
FMS Speaking Page 7

Analog has become digital
Truth has become relative
Feelings have replaced facts
Christianity is viewed by many as "outdated",
"superstitious", and "evil".
There is no more TRIBAL KNOWLEDGE of the Bible or
Christianity.
There is no more ATTEMPT TO ALLOW Christianity to
flourish
There is no more acceptance of THE BIBLE SAYS SO
Ex: My current neighbors
Ex: Homework on Wednesdays
Ex: First Bible, John chapter 19
3: Go back to the beginning
Christianity was born in a polytheistic, pagan, and
wicked culture of oppression, slavery, and idolatry.
We should be at home being challenged… but we're
not!
We have forgotten that to be Christian is to be
different.
FMS Speaking Page 8

different.
Acts 2 - The Day of Pentecost
The very first move the Holy Spirit was viewed as
drunk stupidity they day the Church was born!
Acts 6 - Stephen on trial
When Stephen stood before the Sanhedrin, they
rejected his message because of their commitment to
their own beliefs.
Acts 17 - Paul in Athens
When Paul brought the gospel message to Athens he
debated atheist and "spiritual" philosophers who
disagreed with his ideas.
4: Examples of apologetics in ministry
Examples:
Connor and the phone calls
Divorced family teenager dinner at his house
Walking into the dead baby room
Create an environment where questions are welcome
Seek out those who don’t agree with you!
You must become familiar with the ideas of those who
don’t believe.
FMS Speaking Page 9

Including apologetics in sermon content
Hosting a "questions" focused event
Offering a class on apologetics for the church body
Read an apologetics book as a group
FMS Speaking Page 10

Christ In Culture
Tuesday, November 7, 2023 7:45 PM
Acts 17:16–34 (NIV)
Opening: Picture Game
Show pictures and have a show of hands.
The way we LISTEN to music has changed.
The way we SHARE music has changed.
Our LOVE for music has not changed.
Culture has changed.
"Secular" is the opposite of sacred, it means without
religion.
Secular culture is the view of society without religious
connection.
We live in a secular culture.
In AD 313 Emperor Constantine issues the Edict of Milan
permanently establishing religious tolerance for
Christianity in the Roman empire.
FMS Speaking Page 11

Tom Holland (atheist) 2019,
"Dominion: How the Christian Revolution Remade the
World"
The problem: culture NO LONGER recognizes Christianity
as true or good.
The good news: It's NOT a NEW problem for us. We
already have the SOLUTION.
Paul in Athens
Acts 17:16-34
16 While Paul was waiting for them in Athens, he was
greatly distressed to see that the city was full of idols.
Athens - named after the goddess of wisdom, Athena.
Historically, Athens was the center of Greek
philosophy, theater, and culture. While a shadow of
its former glory, Athens remained a multi-cultural
center both inclusive and critical of various beliefs
and ideas.
Greatly distressed - lit. "to be excited or stirred up to
action"
FMS Speaking Page 12

action"
17 So he reasoned in the synagogue with both Jews and
God-fearing Greeks, as well as in the marketplace day by
day with those who happened to be there.
He reasoned - lit. "discuss, converse, argue"
18 A group of Epicurean and Stoic philosophers began to
debate with him. Some of them asked, “What is this
babbler trying to say?” Others remarked, “He seems to be
advocating foreign gods.” They said this because Paul
was preaching the good news about Jesus and the
resurrection.
Epicureans - deiststic materialists who believe the
goal of life is the pursuit of happiness by avoiding pain
and by loving all mankind. Gods are real but distant
and do not interact with men.
Stoic - spiritual, but not religious; they believed the
goal of life was accept one's lot in life and make the
best of it. They were very prideful and self-reliant.
19 Then they took him and brought him to a meeting of
the Areopagus, where they said to him, “May we know
what this new teaching is that you are presenting?
They brought him - he was invited in to the place of
cultural discussion
FMS Speaking Page 13

cultural discussion
20 You are bringing some strange ideas to our ears, and
we would like to know what they mean.”
Strange ideas - the gospel was an "unheard idea" like
a stranger's voice
21 (All the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there
spent their time doing nothing but talking about and
listening to the latest ideas.)
Nothing but talking - sharing ideas was a part of
Athenian culture
22 Paul then stood up in the meeting of the Areopagus
and said: “People of Athens! I see that in every way you
are very religious.
You are very religious - Paul opens with a compliment
23 For as I walked around and looked carefully at your
objects of worship, I even found an altar with this
inscription: TO AN UNKNOWN GOD. So you are ignorant
of the very thing you worship—and this is what I am
going to proclaim to you.
Altar to an unknown god - Paul was a student of their
culture
FMS Speaking Page 14

Paul builds a bridge anchored
in their culture leading to Christ
24 “The God who made the world and everything in it is
the Lord of heaven and earth and does not live in temples
built by human hands.
25 And he is not served by human hands, as if he needed
anything. Rather, he himself gives everyone life and
breath and everything else.
Does not live in temples / served by human hands -
Paul challenges their theology only AFTER being
invited "in" by them
26 From one man he made all the nations, that they
should inhabit the whole earth; and he marked out their
appointed times in history and the boundaries of their
lands.
27 God did this so that they would seek him and perhaps
reach out for him and find him, though he is not far from
any one of us.
28 ‘For in him we live and move and have our being.’ As
some of your own poets have said, ‘We are his offspring.’
Two quotes - Paul uses Greek quotes from their own
culture to connect with their understanding
FMS Speaking Page 15

culture to connect with their understanding
29 “Therefore since we are God’s offspring, we should not
think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone—
an image made by human design and skill.
30 In the past God overlooked such ignorance, but now
he commands all people everywhere to repent.
To repent - lit. to change one's mind about God
31 For he has set a day when he will judge the world with
justice by the man he has appointed. He has given proof
of this to everyone by raising him from the dead.”
Given proof / resurrection - Paul's proof of the gospel
is the resurrection
32 When they heard about the resurrection of the dead,
some of them sneered, but others said, “We want to hear
you again on this subject.”
33 At that, Paul left the Council.
34 Some of the people became followers of Paul and
believed. Among them was Dionysius, a member of the
Areopagus, also a woman named Damaris, and a number
of others.
Sneered / hear again / followers - there were mixed
FMS Speaking Page 16

Sneered / hear again / followers - there were mixed
responses to Paul's preaching
Some mocked in disbelief
Some wanted to hear more
Some believed in Jesus
Using Paul as our example, we can draw a simple Four
step model:
1: G - Grasp how culture thinks
2: O - Open with a point of agreement
3: A - Adjust any misunderstanding
4: L - Link back to Christ
Example: Importance of Human Dignity & Autonomy
1: Secular culture says that each person is intrinsically
valuable and should be free to make their own decisions.
Ex: Sexual identity, gender identity, reproductive
rights
2: The Bible also teaches that each human being is
intrinsically valuable and is created free to make their
own decisions.
FMS Speaking Page 17

3: But… If there is no God, there is no free will or intrinsic
human value. If evolution is true and we are only evolved
cells, we are not valuable and all our "choices" are made
for us by physics and chemistry.
Being an IMAGE BEARER of God is what makes each
person valuable and free.
However, God did not only make us autonomous, He also
holds accountable.
4: All of humanity has believed in an afterlife judgement.
All we disagree on is the terms by which we will be
judged.
Christians believe the resurrection of Jesus proves He
alone is the afterlife judge and offers freedom for all who
place their faith in Him.
Call to Action:
We must let go of our old way of thinking and accept the
position of being an AMBASSADOR for the Kingdom of
Christ. This begins with:
Setting our HEARTS for the lost and broken
FMS Speaking Page 18

Setting our HEARTS for the lost and broken
Setting our MINDS to learn the culture around us
Setting our EYES to look for opportunities
Setting our LIVES to the GOAL of reaching culture for
Christ.
FMS Speaking Page 19