And we are in a series on the gifts of the Holy Spirit. So let me give you the key thought that kind of is holding all of this series together. God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His church. God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His church. Now this series is a Q&A series. We try to schedule at least one of these every year on our annual planning calendar. So if you have your phone, I invite you to go to the Catalyst app. If you already have it, you can just open it. If you don't have it, you can go to catalyst302.com slash app, and it'll have a link to both app stores there. Or just go to your favorite app store and search for Catalyst 302. The icon is a C inside of a white hexagon on a black square. Very easy to notice. But you're going to want to be able to use the app this morning, because in the app, you'll see when you scroll down, there's a button that says Q&A. While I'm preaching my sermon this morning, you are going to be free to ask questions. Use that form right there in the app. The questions will go to the back where Miss Donna and my wife are seated back there to receive the questions. And then they will pitch them to me up here. My wife will text them to my phone. So we're going to be part sermon and part Q&A. And I'm sure there are going to be questions this morning as we are in Paul's section where he speaks specifically about speaking in tongues. What is it? What is speaking? What is tongues? What is its purpose? Why did he have to address the 1st Corinthians on this issue? We're going to get into all of those things. But in order to remind us about our setting, it's always important to remember, the Bible is written for you, but it's not written to you. It was written to an audience in the first century, and we're getting the benefit of reading it. So in the same way as you would not be justified in reading an email that I wrote to my wife and pretending that it was written to you, you might learn from what I shared with my wife, but it wasn't originally written to you. So let's review. Where did Paul write the letter of 1st Corinthians to? The city of Corinth, right? And what do we know about the city of Corinth? It was the Mediterranean's... Las Vegas. That's right. City of Corinth was the first century Mediterranean sin city. And the reason is because it exists on a very thin piece of land between two major bodies of water. Ships would bring in their cargo, and it was cheaper to transport it across the land, load it on another ship, and continue going than it would be to go all the way around. So this made Corinth the perfect spot for sailors to get off a boat, spend some money, get on another boat, and go keep doing it. So Corinth became the city where sailors spend money on everything that you think. Sailors want to spend their money on. And that is where this church is born. Also, you have to remember that the book of 1st Corinthians is a letter of correction. It is not a letter of instruction. And that's very different. You read Timothy or Titus. Paul's like, hey, Jerry, don't forget to do these really good things. But when you read Corinthians, he's like, hey, Barry, stop being weird, man. Do this instead. See, that's a total different kind of letter. So 1st Corinthians is a corrective letter, and he is correcting a misuse of what we call the gifts of the Holy Spirit in the church. So when we read the text, we have to realize that he is correcting misuse. Now, in chapter 12, we looked at the introduction of spiritual gifts. We looked at why we have different spiritual gifts. Chapter 13, we looked at the supremacy of love and why love is super important. And if you remember that it is a letter of correction, then we can easily understand the setting is Paul is writing to Christians in 1st century Corinth who are using spiritual gifts in an unloving manner. And so chapter 13 ends with reminding them of the supremacy of love. Before I get into this morning's text of chapter 14, I want to go back and address something at the end of 13. So number one, we get our full context. Number two, it doesn't look like I dodged a very difficult, challenging section because that's not me. I want to take it head on. So I just want to look at 1st Corinthians, chapter 13, and we're going to start reading at verse eight. And then we'll go into this morning's text. So here's 1st Corinthians 13, starting in verse eight. Love never fails, but where there are prophecies, they will cease. Where there are tongues, they will be stilled. Where there is knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part and we prophesy in part. But when the completeness comes, what is in part disappears. And then we continue on. When I was a child, I talked like a child. I thought like a child. I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put away, I put the ways of childhood behind me. For now we see only a reflection as in a mirror. Then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known. Now these three things remain, faith, hope, and love. But the greatest of these is love. This is how Paul ends chapter 13, which it's very interesting to me that you have chapter 12, chapter 13, chapter 14, this massive section right here on spiritual gifts. And right in the middle of it, John, what does he have to do? He's got to remind the first Corinthians what it means to be loving. So obviously, however they were using their spiritual gifts was unloving. But I want to directly address the question of what does he mean when he says, but there are prophecies, they will cease. Where there are tongues, they will be stilled. Where there is knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part and we prophesy in part, but when the completeness comes, what is in part disappears. Now remember when we had the introduction of this series, I said, when it comes to the supernatural gifts of the Holy Spirit, there are two camps. There are two choices you get to make. This camp over here is called the cessationist camp. So they teach that all supernatural gifts have stopped and they no longer function today. The opposite, obviously, choice is called the continuationist camp, which means that they can operate today and then within this camp, some say have to, some say don't, but they're all over here in the camp that says it can, and this camp is it says it's not. The reason I want to address this question is because I'm in the continuationist camp. I do not believe that scripture clearly points out that supernatural gifts must cease, which is what a continuationist has to defend. And they'll use this verse right here where it says, when the completeness comes, what is in part disappears. And quite often they will use it and we'll say, see, now that we have the canonized New Testament, we no longer need the gift of tongues or the gift of working of miracles or the gift of healing, but they'll stop and say, well, we still need the gift of teaching. So here's the problem. There is no world in which the original first century audience that Paul was writing in 1st Corinthians Sin City understood that there was such a thing as a New Testament canon that they never understood that the completeness would be the completed New Testament canon. That is a Christian ideal from later centuries read back into a first century text. So Pastor Bill, what does it mean? Completeness here is the same exact word that James uses for when you are complete and fully mature. The word completeness does not refer to the New Testament canon. It refers to when the church as a body, the whole church body is fully complete and mature. At that point, the need for prophecy, tongues, and oh, by the way, knowledge. I have never heard a cessationist teach that knowledge has ceased because we now have the canonized New Testament. So it's really hard for me to take this verse and kind of chop it up into a you want half but not the other half. So let's read the whole thing again. Love never fails. We got everything. All spiritual gifts have to be done in love or they are fruitless. But where there are prophecies, they will cease. Where there are tongues, they will be stilled. And where there is knowledge, it will pass away. Prophecies, tongues, and knowledge will all cease and pass away at the same time. To draw distinction between the two is to do something very unfair to the sentence. For now, so now he's talking about now, we know only in part. So Paul admits that our knowledge today is not full but only part. We prophesy in part. Prophecy is only a part, not a whole. But when completeness comes, when the church is fully mature, what is in part disappears. And now he continues to explain. When I was a child, I talked like a child. I thought like a child. I reasoned like a child. But when I became a man, I put the ways of childhood behind me. Paul is talking about maturity of the whole church, not the arrival of the canonized New Testament. He is saying that all of the supernatural gifts that were given in the first century have a clock. They have an end date. They are not forever. They will end when the church reaches its full state of maturity. And then in that moment, we will no longer need to prophesy. We will no longer need because we will know fully. We will become fully mature. And then he explains, for now we see only a reflection as in a mirror, then we shall see face to face. So what we're looking for is a moment from the future of which Paul's perspective, him writing in the first century. Paul died in AD 64. So we're talking about something that happened prior to AD 64 and he's looking into the future. So we'd have to ask ourselves, is this event where the church has become fully mature and now has full knowledge and no longer needs prophecy and no longer needs miracles, has that event occurred between the death of Paul in AD 64 and today when you and I are talking, or is that event still in the future from our perspective as well, in which case we're still waiting for it? For now we see only a reflection as in a mirror, then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known. I submit to you that the best explanation of when the church is full and complete, when it is fully mature, when it is face to face and fully known, is at the return of Christ. Which means, if that is true, and I want to take the whole section together, because I know for sure, and let's just be very honest, within our church community, we're a small church, there are some people over here and there are some people over here, and I am not going to require you to change your view. We have to be a church that can be comfortable in discussion, debate, and disagreement as one unified body. But for those of you who are in the cessationist camp and you know who you are, you would roast me over the coals if I skipped this and didn't come back to it, because I looked like I dodged a huge bullet being in a continuationist camp and not addressing a very clear cessationist text. So I want to address it head on. I do not believe it is justice to the text to read into the idea that completeness is the canonized New Testament. It makes more sense with the entire section that the full complete maturity of the church is when Christ returns. So that means, continuationists, those of you who are in my camp that say the miraculous gifts can still happen today, they will stop. Paul is not joking. He's not mincing words. But they will stop at a very specific point when Christ returns, and I would argue that we could even get into eschatology a little more. Is it at the first return of Christ? Is it his victory at the Battle of Armageddon? Get into Revelation? All that fun stuff. We could debate that. But what I don't think is debatable, if we are correct about the fact that it is the return of Christ, then we must admit that all the miraculous gifts that exist in the first century are capable of existing today. Now, the continuationists are saying, yeah, but pastor, do they really happen as frequently? No, they don't. And even as a continuationist, I'm not going to ignore that fact. It would be historically ignorant of me to sit up here and try to tell you that we see healings and miracles and tongues at the plethora that they did in the first century. Has there been a large historical change in the church? Absolutely. Cessationists, you are absolutely correct on that point. There is a historical change that has happened and the miraculous gifts seem to be operating in less frequency than they did in the first century. Historically seems to operate does not equal God cannot do, which is why I live in this camp. It is not that I ignore church history, nor do I ignore the authority of the word of God. It is the simple fact that the Bible didn't say they're going to stop. Plus, if you want to say that this verse means that tongues has to have stopped, you got to take knowledge with it. And we don't do that. So I just have a hard time. See, even my niece agrees with me. She's just like. So I just wanted to make sure I was very clear and honest about my position on this passage because I didn't want to make it look like I was dodging anything. I believe that Paul is very clear. We will no longer have a need for any of the miraculous spiritual gifts, perhaps any spiritual gifts at all. I can't say that he's only saying that these spiritual gifts will cease. Although that seems to be the textual implication. It could be that we will no longer need any spiritual gifts when Christ returns. That is absolutely possible. I can't tell you it's not possible. But I didn't want to I didn't want to dodge. I didn't want to make it look like I wasn't doing something. So now let's go to the text of this morning. I've got my phone out. Please make sure you have the app out, especially those of you who are joining us online. You can still use the catalyst app or the chat host who's in our live chat this morning will give you a link that you can click right from the live chat and go to the question form online. If you are watching this service in real time, i.e. it is give or take 1030 Eastern Standard Time wherever you are, you can ask your questions in real time just like the people here in the room. And your question will come to me up here. If you are watching the service after the fact, still use the question form. It will come to my email and I can email answer your question. So even if you happen to be going back and you watch the service at a later time in the afternoon or another day, because maybe you're at work right now, you can still ask your question. It'll come to me in an email and I will still contact you. So here we go. This morning's text is from First Corinthians. And this is where Paul really deep dives the concept of speaking in tongues. So let's start reading first in First Corinthians, Chapter 14. I want to do 19 verses and then go back and walk through them and try to also take your questions at the same time. So here we go. First Corinthians 14, starting in verse one. Follow the way of love and eagerly desire gifts of the Spirit, especially prophecy. For anyone who speaks in a tongue does not speak to people, but to God. Indeed, no one understands them. They utter mysteries by the Spirit. But the one who prophesies speaks to people for their strengthening, encouraging and comfort. Anyone who speaks in a tongue edifies themselves, but the one who prophesies edifies the church. I would like every one of you to speak in tongues, but I would rather you prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues unless someone interprets so that the church may be edified. Now, brothers and sisters, if I come to you and speak in tongues, what good will I be to you unless I bring some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or word of instruction? Even in the cases of lifeless things that make sounds such as the pipe or harp, how will anyone know what tune is being played unless there is a distinction in the notes? Again, if the trumpet does not sound a clear call, who will get ready for battle? So it is with you. Unless you speak intelligible words with your tongue, how will anyone know what you are saying? You will just be speaking into the air. Undoubtedly, there are all sorts of languages in the world, yet none of them is without meaning. If then I do not grasp the meaning of what someone is saying, I am a foreigner to the speaker, and the speaker is a foreigner to me. So it is with you. Since you are eager for gifts of the Spirit, try to excel in those that build up the church. For this reason, the one who speaks in a tongue should pray that they may interpret what they say. If I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful. What shall I do? I will pray in my spirit, but I also pray with my understanding. I will sing with my spirit, but I also sing with my understanding. Otherwise, when you are praising God in the spirit, how can someone else who is now put in the position of an inquirer say, Amen, to your thanksgiving, since they do not know what you are saying? You are giving thanks well enough, but no one else is edified. I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you, but in the church, I would rather speak five intelligible words to instruct others than 10,000 words in a tongue. So the Apostle Paul is not holding back. He is not taking it light. Let's rewind back to verse one. First question. When you personally speak in tongues, do you know what you are saying? This is a fantastic question. Again, this gets to the root of the issue of what is the Holy Spirit's gift of speaking in tongues. Let's define it again. The biblical gift of speaking in tongues is speaking words from your mouth in a language that you did not learn with your earthly understanding. For instance, is there anyone in this room that can speak Luganda, which is the native language of Uganda? Anybody? My daughter is raising her hand. So if I look at you and I say, Okama, Yibaziwe, Amen. I just spoke three words in Luganda. It's like the only three words I remember from my two-week trip to Africa. But does anybody know what I'm saying? Yes, Amen is Amen. So you got the third word there. Okama, Yibaziwe is Praise God. Amen. It's the traditional opening that was used when I was in Uganda. The preacher would come up to the pulpit and he would say, Okama, Yibaziwe, Amen. Praise be to God. Amen. Amen or Okama, Yesu, which means Praise be to Jesus. That's exactly what it sounds like, right? So I learned those with my cranium. That's not the gift of speaking in tongues. However, if I all of a sudden just started speaking Mandarin Chinese or Korean for my daughters, right? My daughters love K-pop. If I all of a sudden just start spitting out some Korean, number one, pray for me. But that's what the gift of speaking in tongues is. It is speaking a language that your brain did not learn. So now with the correct definition, let me address the questioner. When you personally speak in tongues, do you know what you are saying? No, because I'm speaking a language that my earthly brain did not know. Now here's the catch. That doesn't mean that your heart may not feel what you're saying. Has anybody ever had a real burden to pray for somebody? God, you're just broken for them. But you struggle to find the right words. Even without speaking words, you know what your heart is feeling, even though the heart hasn't like made it to 18 inches up to the brain filter. So I will say that there are times when you're speaking in tongues that your heart can sense the words or sense not the words. That's the wrong word. I apologize. Sense the intention or the meaning behind what you're saying. But no, in order to be the biblical gift of speaking in tongues, you must be able to speak an unlearned language, meaning your brain did not learn the language that your face hole is currently yapping. That's my very theological term for it. All right, so let's get here. So here verse one, follow the way of love and eagerly desire gifts of the spirit, especially prophecy. Stop. Remember that Paul is writing a letter of correction. He's not just writing a letter of instruction. He's not just saying, Jerry, go follow the way of love, my brother. No, he's reminding them that when you utilize the gifts of the spirit, they are to be utilized through love for one another. And then he says, especially prophecy. And I want to remind you in our first message of the series, I created definitions for all of the gifts of the spirit that were in here. I want to remind you, here's my definition of the gift of prophecy. A spirit born ability to speak and or apply God's word to God's people, either in the near or the distant future. So whatever this correction is, and I see that question come in. Let me just finish this point and I'll switch over. Whatever Paul's correction is here in 14, it's built on the purpose of spiritual gifts from 12. The purpose of the diverse spiritual groups is the growth of the church. Then 13, the usage of spiritual gifts is to be done in love, not to be done in an unloving manner. And then he gets to 14 verse one, follow the way of love and eagerly desire the gifts of the spirit. Here's 12 and 13 altogether now in 14, especially prophecy. All right. And then I've got a question. So many are led astray by false teachers and charlatans using babbling to fleece people, calling it a spiritual gift. Why are true teachers not pushing back on this? We have entire TV channels and denominations leading people away from God. Fantastic question. First off, I got to say I can't take responsibility for anybody else's teaching but my own. Right? I'm going to answer to God for everything I say to you from this position and I will be judged more harshly than you. If you want my very cynical and been in ministry for 22 years, it's because you can make a lot of money if you teach what people want to hear. The Bible refers to it as tickling the ears. Right? If you just tickle the ears and teach people what they want to hear and you make people feel spiritual about things that really aren't spiritual, you can grow a really big congregation and get a lot of money. Do I believe that every single teacher is doing that? No, I do not. I am not throwing every single person who does what I do for a living under the bus. Listen, I am in a lot of different Facebook groups with pastors from all over the country. And there's a lot of us who serve in small churches who you don't see on TV and some of them don't even live stream. And man, we just love Jesus. We just love his word and we love his people and we do our best to feed them with the best that we have. Yeah, I would say that is the greater majority of pastors in churches today worldwide. We're just simple guys trying to do a simple job. But to answer the question or specifically, why are true teachers and I mean, I think I assume you mean by true teachers, teachers who are trying to teach the text in context, why are true teachers not pushing back on this? I would say we probably are. But you're not going to find my sermon on TikTok because we as a church don't do that. I used to try to put sermon reels on Instagram and it made me very uncomfortable. I'll just be very honest. The reason you do not see my sermon content on Instagram is it made me uncomfortable every time I had to cut that reel and put put captions on it and then put it to Instagram like I'm somebody special. I stopped doing it. If somebody else in the church wants to take it over, fine. If you think it's point full that we should share that stuff. Fine. I'll make a way for you to do that. But I refuse because you know what it did. I'd be up here preaching my sermon and the back of my ADHD brain is going, Bill, you got to sound good because it's got to go on Instagram later. I don't want that in my brain when I'm up here doing this job. I just got very uncomfortable. There are some people that are built for that kind of ministry. Praise God. Don't judge them for it. Let them do what God has built them to do. So I would say the question of why are true teachers not pushing back on this? Maybe they are, but we teach in smaller environments. My privilege is to teach the small group of you are here and those of you who are joining us through that little camera lens. I'm not the guy who teaches thousands and that's cool. But you know what? There's probably a thousand other people like me who want to teach the text in context in small churches all over our country. They're just not the big guys that you see on Instagram and ticker talk. So I think there are. And then the last half, we have whole denominations leading people away from God. I would say we have whole denominations teaching wrong theology. To say that one piece of wrong theology dooms someone to an eternity in hell is not to understand the depth and the sacrifice at the cross. There are certain theologies that undermine salvation and there are certain theologies that don't. I'm going to 100% stand and say you can be a continuation of the same thing. I have friends who are pastors on both sides of this discussion and they love Jesus and they love his word. But they have come to alternative theological conclusions. And so let's not make salvific issues out of things that are not. Next question. As a continuationist, why do you think healing and miracles are not a part of the same thing? I think it's because we're all in the same place. I think there are several reasons why we may not see miracles happening today. The first is we have a highly scientific, scientific argument that says if we're not willing to receive miracles, we're not willing to receive them for a different reason. And so I think it's very important to understand that. If you're not willing to receive miracles, you're not willing to receive them for a different reason. And so we've got to understand that. We need to understand that. And so I think it's important to understand that. I think there are several reasons why we may not see miracles happening today. The first is we have a highly scientific and skeptical culture. I took a class on miracles in my master's program. I have two books on my shelf at home. They are this thick each. No joke. Probably three inches thick. It's a two volume set by a guy named Craig Keener. And it catalogs modern day miracles all around the country, all around the world, actually. There's Southeast Asia section. Miracles happen every day. We don't see them because we don't see them. You're asking the wrong question. You're asking. Now, the second question is, is it because God is not willing? No, I don't think so. However, there is a passage in the Gospels that comes to mind when Jesus himself did not do miracles because of the faith of those around him were not able to receive it. If Jesus himself in his fully God nature and anointed by the Holy Spirit in his human nature was unable because of a spiritual prevalence, I don't see why that could not still occur today. So that's possible. And then the second, is it that the church is not willing? I think that's totally possible, especially here in the West. Our church is very selfish, right? We want our best life now. I want what I want right now. I want like a Burger King level church. Give it to me my way and give it to me in the drive through. And I don't want to have to sacrifice. And my obedience is only as good as I'm comfortable. Like we have a very shallow, selfish church. So I think it is possible that maybe people aren't willing, but I think it is also equally possible. We are fighting a very different spiritual battle than they were in the first century. See, in the first century, our faith was illegal. We were thrown to lions and tigers and bears. Oh, my. And we were executed for following Jesus. We don't have that battle anymore. You know the largest, and this is just my pastoral opinion, but the largest spiritual battle we have today is with apathy. It's the I don't care monster. That's our largest battle. Maybe we don't see miracles because the miracles we need don't affect what's really wrong with our culture. Right? I need a miracle that changes your heart, not heals your arm. Also remember, Paul asked to be physically healed. And God was like, no, my grace is good enough for you. You can live with it. It's the new international bill translation. Right? So just because we don't see healings doesn't mean God's not willing. Maybe God is teaching something else. I think there are a lot of possible answers to the question, but to the questioner, I hope that was good enough. So here we go, verse two. For anyone who speaks in a tongue does not speak to people but to God. So here he drills down specifically. Anyone who speaks in a tongue, meaning you're speaking in a language that your earthly mind has not learned, does not speak to people. Why? Because if I stand here and I speak to you in Mandarin Chinese, and there's no one in this room that speaks Mandarin Chinese, all of you go unedified. It's not fruitful. If someone right now were to stand up and speak, I don't know, ancient Aramaic, right? That's a dead language, but it's still a language. And if we don't understand that, then all, I mean, and when I was in Africa, listen, I sat in whole church services where I didn't understand a lick of what they said. I might be able to catch something that sounds a lot like Jesus, right? Like Yesu, especially if you grew up in Spanish culture, right? Yesu, okay, I could hear that one. But I largely, I watched them worship. So in Tanzania, they speak, come on, what was the native language? Swahili, thank you. They speak Swahili. I don't know Swahili. Amen. I got that one. Woo. They say amen. I went, amen. And of course, everybody laughs because it's the only word in their language I know, right? But I didn't learn anything from their teaching. Homies stood up there and taught for 45 minutes in Swahili. I caught Jesus and amen. I didn't learn anything there. I was not grown there. Now, I did not go there to grow and to learn. I went there to serve. But if you've ever sat in an entirely different environment where you cannot understand the language, you can see how if an entire church service is just speaking in tongues, it's not helpful. Indeed, no one understands them. They utter mysteries. And now he, I see that question. Give me just a second, Mel. But the one who prophesies speaks to people for their strengthening, encouraging, and comfort. Again, prophecy, let me just give you my definition one more time. A spirit born ability to speak and or apply God's word to God's people either in the near or distant future. There is a little bit of an overlap in my opinion and in many scholars' opinion between what the New Testament definition of prophecy is and what I am doing right now. I am in my culture, we what? We call it preaching. Some people call it teaching. Some people call it sermoning. Some people call it sharing a message, right? We have a lot of different words for it. But what am I trying to do? I am trying to apply God's word to God's people for the near and distant future. So in many ways what I am doing could be qualified. Here's the difference. I'm not speaking God's word. I'm reading them. The authority of my sermon does not come from my words, but comes from the Holy Spirit's words that we already have on the page. So there is a little bit of a difference there. All right. So I question, why do you think it is so hard to follow the ways of love, but so easy to argue about the gifts of the spirit? I love this question. Thank you. Here's my reason. And if this stings you, I apologize, but you probably need to hear it if it hurts. I think the reason it's so hard to follow the way of love, but it's so easy to argue about the gifts of the spirit, is we see the gifts of the spirit being practiced by people. And when you see someone using a gift you don't have, we immediately start playing the comparison game. Oh, well, I mean, Ethan's got to be way more spiritual than me. His gift of tongue sounds way cooler than my gift of teaching. So clearly God can do something in him that he can't do. We try to make comparisons between one another that aren't supposed to be there because you know why? Because if Ethan had the gift of speaking in tongues and I had the gift of teaching, neither one of us got our own gift. They're gifts from the Holy Spirit utilized by people. The problem is, is we tend to judge what we can see, taste, touch and hear. So we judge the person not realizing that his gift or my gift or your gift or her gift all comes from the gift giver. And we're merely the gift recipient. The value of the gift is determined by the giver, not the receiver. My gift of teaching is what he gave me. I didn't get to choose it. I didn't ask for it. I didn't roll dice. There was no like heavenly scratch off ticker ticket where I like to get a scratch off and find out what kind of spiritual gift I won. Like, no, he chooses, he molds, he distributes and we just do the job. So I think the reason that it's hard to love people is A, we get jealous. Well, I want that spiritual gift. How come I didn't get that one? How come I don't know what my spiritual gift is? Let me just tell you really honestly, the purpose of spiritual gifts is the growth of the church. If you are not putting your hand to the plow to grow the Lord's church, why do you need a spiritual gift? That's like asking for a tool that you don't know how to use and never plan on taking out of the box. Right? Like I talked to Jim Boucher all the time because he knows a whole lot about cars and I know very little about cars. I'm not the car guy. Like I grew up in a geek family. I did not grow up in a wrench head family. You want me to take your iPhone apart? I'm your boy. I have all the tools at home. I can take it apart, solder a chip off the motherboard, put another one in, slap it back together, void your warranty, the whole deal. The only thing I know how to do on a tire is like I can change a tire. I know how to put oil in it and I know how to drive and avoid getting speeding tickets. Those are the main things I know how to do in a car. So why would I ask for a tool to do a job that I'm not doing, don't plan on doing and don't know how to do? Right? If I ask Jim, hey man, what's the coolest, most expensive mechanic tool that I can ask my wife for for Christmas? And she gets me this top end, you know, 7.3 liter, whatever. I don't know. But why do I need that tool if I never plan on working on my car? Spiritual gifts are the same thing. Why do you get discouraged or you get upset about not knowing what your spiritual gift is when you don't even bother to serve the church? That's like wanting a brand pneumatic ratchet set, but you don't ever plan on popping the hood on your car. What are you going to do, put the gift on the shelf and appreciate it for how it looks? Tools are made to be used. Tools aren't toys. Tools are made to do a function. So just that little sidebar as we talk about why it's not easy to love through spiritual gifts. And here's another thing. And my wife and my children can attest to this. My gift of teaching has only showed up in what, the last six years, Smell, you think? Six to ten? Yeah. Trust me. I went back and listened to some of my sermons when I was a youth pastor. Woo! Tyler, you would have been ashamed of the kind of stuff I put together then. Why? Because I didn't have the skill. I got a skill in learning to rightly divide the Word of God. And then God turns on a gift that uses that skill. Right? Yeah, I'm not discounting the fact that I went and I got an education. I did because I want to serve you, the Lord's church. But then he turned something else on in me that weren't there before that utilizes that gift and that skill in a way that I had never planned. Sure. Yeah, that's totally cool. You want to laugh sometime. Let me pull you out with like one of my sermons from like 2004. Woo! So, I'm just saying. We need to be very clear on why he's, and I see the question. Let me just get back to the text and then I'll go back to it. For anyone who speaks in the tongue, does not speak to people, understands, but those who prophesize speak to people for their strengthening, for their encouraging, for their comfort. I think Paul is correcting an overuse of tongues in the first century church. Because if everybody just stands up here and speaks in tongues, right? If I just stand up here and speak in foreign languages that you don't know, then you sat through an entire hour long church service with no subtitles. How many of you watch TV in a foreign language for entertainment without subtitles? Without subtitles. So that you don't understand anything that's going on. No, there's no value in it. I think what Paul is trying to correct, and the reason, Claudie, I think the reason he's trying to say, listen, you need to care more about prophecy than speaking in tongues. Speaking in tongues looks supernatural. It looks spiritual. But without the translation, which we're going to get to in a minute, it delivers nothing. It's empty. It's vain. It's void. Whereas speaking the language people can hear, speaking the language people understand that they can get knowledge from, that benefits the whole church. Question? Oh, no, that wasn't a question. Okay, keep it going. The next thing we get to is verse five. Speaking in tongues with interpretation benefits the church. I would like every one of you to speak in tongues, but I would rather. Notice that? He says, listen, I would like it if all of you spoke in tongues. Congratulations, but I would rather. What would be better for you is to prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues unless someone interprets so the church may be edified. So he's making two really great points in one super small verse. What he's saying is he's juxtaposing the gift of speaking in tongues, the gift of speaking a spirit born ability to speak an unlearned language. You do that. You don't know what you'd be saying. And unless somebody else in the room can translate that particular language, nobody else knows what you'd be saying either. It is better to speak the native language of the church service. Now, that will change depending on where you are, right? Obviously, right now, I am speaking to you using the English language. If I take my daughters to South Korea next year, which they would love, but I try to teach in a church in South Korea where they don't speak English, me teaching in English will not be beneficial to them. Doesn't it just make sense? If you can't understand the language, you're not going to benefit from the teaching of the word of God. So that's why he says we should value prophesy. Why? Unless someone interprets so the church may be edified. So here's where the gift of speaking in tongues pairs with the gift of interpretation of tongues. Your ability to interpret a spirit born ability to interpret an unlearned human language. If I were to stand up here and speak in an unlearned human language and then Casey, who's sitting down here, were to stand up and go, I know what that means. And we were to ask Casey, well, Casey, did you learn that language in college? Nope, just came to me right now. That would be the gift of interpretation. Right? Has to be spirit born ability, not human learned ability in the speaking or in the interpreting. Both of them have to come from God, not from a human being. And why is it important that if we have the gift of tongues, we should have the gift of interpretation? Because the entire focus of all spiritual gifts is the growth of the Lord's church to stand up here and speak in an unlearned human language that none of you understand and then not have somebody stand up and translate it does not benefit the church, thereby violates the purpose of all spiritual gifts in the first place. You see how all this goes together? It totally makes sense. And if you grew up in a church where speaking in tongues was normative, I've worked in those churches and I've worked in cessationist churches. I've worked across the gambit because to me, this is not a salvific issue. I can worship with somebody who does not believe in speaking in tongues. I can worship with somebody who does. I grew up in a very conservative American Baptist Church just outside of Trenton, New Jersey. And I kid you not, when I was taught, speaking in tongues is right next to playing with snakes. It's evil. It's demonic. Don't do that mess. And then I married a southern Pentecostal woman from Louisiana. That was not nearly a big enough laugh for the culture shock that was my marriage. I've worked in churches that speaking in tongues has been used appropriately, and I've worked in churches where I have watched it be used inappropriately. So I have the practical experience within the church of seeing this different gambit. And I can tell you, listen, if someone were to stand up right now and start speaking in an unlearned human language, all we do is follow these simple instructions. In order to benefit the church as a whole, somebody else has to have the ability to translate that message. If not, then it doesn't benefit the whole church. Now, what I see happen a lot, and we went to a church that I'm not going to point out where it was. And the first time I went there, I was like, oh, this is awesome. You see the gift used correctly, kind of like two thirds through the worship service. Somebody stood up and gave a message in tongues. The whole church waited, listened, then they waited and they prayed quietly. And then somebody stood up and they translated it. And I was like, fantastic. That's what it looks like. And then we went back the next week. And the same thing happened at the same time, in the same place. And then we went back the next week. And the same thing happened at the same time, in the same place. And instantly, I went, I now no longer agree. Maybe this is what it's supposed to look like, but it now feels humanly manufactured. If the gift of, come on, let's just call it spade to spade. If somebody stands up and speaks in tongues and somebody else translates it, and you could put it on the service order because it happens at the same exact time every service, that's not spirit born. It just, it calls it into question in a way that doesn't need to be there. Could it be God? Yes. Is God that powerful? Yes. But if it was meant for the benefit of the church, would God do it at the same exact time, in the same exact way, to make all of us who are super skeptical to begin with, just, and if it's always sister this and sister that, and it's never any other two people, it's just too easy to say, you know what, they probably went out to breakfast, decided what the pastor needed to say, and just decided to say it themselves, instead of trying to put it in the pastor's ear. And if I can think of that as a pastor, I'm sure you all can think of way more creative ideas to disqualify that. So Paul is very clear in verse five. The purpose of the usage of gift of tongues is to benefit the entire church. If it is to be used in a public setting, it is to be paired with the gift of interpretation for that purpose. Now we get to verse six, and now he starts talking about how useless the gift of speaking in tongues is if it doesn't benefit the whole church. Now, brothers and sisters, right, that's verse six. Now, brothers and sisters, that's that same word, adelfos, adelfoi, that means all believers of Jesus. If I come to you and speak in tongues, what good will I be to you unless I bring you some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or word of instruction? Notice he completely links the purpose of spiritual gifts with the function. They should function according to their purpose. Yes, you could hammer a nail in with a Phillips head screwdriver. If you hold it by the head and you swing the handle, you could probably with enough swings drive in a nail. Does that mean that's what that tool is for? No, it just means you can't find your hammer and your two's lazy to look for it and you had a screwdriver. How do I know that? Because I literally did that last Tuesday. I'm like, that'll work. And the moment I did it, I went, I'm so using this on a Sunday. Inappropriate use of a tool. Yeah. He clearly points out that it's no good. It's fruitless. It brings no benefit to the church unless the church can hear in its native language. And then he compares it. Even in the case of lifeless things like a pipe or a harp or any musical instrument, how will you know what tune is being played unless there's distinction between the notes? He's saying, listen, if you try to speak in tongues in front of the entire church and nobody translates it, that's like a one note song. Nobody finds any appreciation in... That's not melodic. That's not melody. That's not music. There has to be a distinction between syllables and words and sounds and meaning in order for the church itself to be benefited. Again, if the trumpet does not sound a clear call, who will get ready for battle? Now he's using a musical instrument in another way. In their day and age, they didn't have radios. They weren't like CR7, go ahead and move forward. They used musical instruments. They used a horn to sound out a very specific call and the notes in that call communicated a message. Well, if the soldiers can't hear the difference of the notes, then the message never makes it to its intended recipient. That is speaking in the public use of speaking in tongues without a translator. It's literally fruitless because you're not communicating anything valuable. So it is with you. He's saying, Jerry, that's what they are doing. Remember, letter of correction, first century sin city. So it is with you. If you utilize the gift of spirit born ability to speak an unlearned human language and it is not translated, then there is no benefit because the message is never delivered. Don't be do that. This international bill summation of what he's saying here. Don't be do that because it doesn't benefit the church. How will anyone know what you are saying? Literally, you will just be speaking into the air. You're speaking words just to speak. Your words have no value. They are fruitless. They are literally just air. Then we get to verse 10. Undoubtedly, there are all sorts of languages in the world, yet none of them was without meaning. Now, before somebody asks a question, let me address it. How do I respond to people who claim to speak in tongues but can only speak, let's say, three or four syllables like abracadabra, like abracadabra, cadabra, cadabra, cadabra, cadabra, cadabra, cadabra, cadabra, cadabra, cadabra, cadabra, cadabra. Anybody who has been in the Pentecostal church, you've probably heard somebody pray in tongues like that. That's basically like a baby or a toddler trying to mimic their parents' speech. That's someone trying to humanly manufacture or false or fake or fraud an actual spirit born ability or gift. That's what that is. And he says here, undoubtedly, there are all sorts of languages in the world, yet none of them is without meaning. In order to truly utilize the gift of speaking in tongues, you must be able to communicate meaning in a language that your earthly mind has never learned. It is not babbling syllables. It is not babble babble babble babble or my absolute favorite Pentecostal joke, untie my bow tie. Anybody ever grew up in Pentecostal heard that? You say untie my bow tie, but say it very fast. Untie my bow tie, untie my bow tie, untie my bow tie, untie my bow tie. I've literally, I've seen people in Pentecostal churches do that where they just repeat the same four syllables over and over. That does not communicate meaning. That violates this. And I see a question in here. You compared prophecy to preaching, but I always thought prophecy was a message given to a person from the Lord for a person, kind of like someone that comes up to you and says, the Lord told me to tell you fill in the blank. Does prophecy cover both preaching and specific messages to people? Or are these two different things? No, I think to the questioner, I think you are correct. A prophecy can be given to a specific person. There are biblical examples of this. I think of the Apostle Paul, the prophet Agabus in the book of Acts, came up, took the belt off somebody else's pants, which would have been a weird moment in church to begin with, right? Walked up to somebody, took the belt off somebody else's pants, tied his arms up with it, and then came up to the Apostle Paul and said, in the same way my hands are bound, so the Romans will bind your hands when you go to Rome. That's in the book of Acts. That is a prophecy that is speaking the words of God to a person or the people of God for the near or distant future. That's prophecy. But in the Old Testament, when Jonah, the disobedient prophet, when Jonah finally makes it to the entire city of Nineveh, and here's the New International Bill translation, y'all got some jack stuff going on, God's not happy, fix it or you're going to get a whooping. That was the basic three elements of Jonah's sermon. Y'all got some jacked up stuff, fix it or you're going to get a whooping. That's not a single audience recipient. That was an entire town. When Peter, in Acts chapter two, stands up and preaches boldly about the resurrection of Jesus. Now you could argue he's only preaching. Fine if you want to go that route. I think here's my problem. In the definition, the way I've defined it, and I'm going to read it again because I struggle to give you the best possible full bore explanation. A spirit born ability to speak and or apply God's word. There are other examples in the Old Testament where a prophet did not speak something new, but applied it. I think about in the New Testament when we talk about the birth of Jesus and the Virgin will conceive and give birth to a son. We took the words of God from the Old Testament and we applied it to the current working of God in the New Testament that was also considered prophecy. When Jesus is born fulfilling prophecy, that's fulfilling prophecy. So I struggle to see how preaching can be similar and also different from prophecy. I agree with that, but no to the questioner. I don't believe we determine the gift of prophecy based on the audience. We determine the gift of prophecy based on the message being shared. Is it from God or God's word? Is it to a person or group of people who are God is trying to speak to? Then you could argue that is the gift of prophecy. But furthermore, it is a spirit born ability given by God himself, not your natural ability to be a good public speaker. This is not the Holy Spirit's gift of prophecy. This is just you're a good talky talker. But that's a fantastic question. And now that I've scrolled around, I've completely lost my place. Where were we? Undoubtedly. So we're somewhere in 10 to 12, right? I am a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker is a foreigner to me. If you use the Holy Spirit's gift of speaking in tongues, spirit born ability to speak an unlearned human language and nobody else can hear you, you're basically like a foreigner to them. Just like when I was in Tanzania and I can't speak Swahili, I am a foreigner. I have to wait for someone to come to me and talk to me in a language I can understand and tell me what's happening. I had somebody sitting next to me in church, not just translating the words they were saying, but translating the actions and the things that they are doing because they have a completely different culture. I don't understand. Is it acceptable to shake a man's hand versus give him a hug? Is it acceptable to shake a woman's hand versus give her a hug? I need to understand how to operate in your culture because I'm not from here. So there's a lot of things that have to get translated. Question, does that mean a Christian in another country could end up speaking in English as their tongues language as long as they... Yes, as long as they never learned it before. Yes, whoever the questioner is, absolutely 100%. If somebody who has never learned the English language spoke up, let's say you're on a mission trip somewhere. Let's just pick Korea because it'll make my kids happy. So you're in South Korea and you're at church and no one in the room speaks English, which is uncommon, but let's just pretend. And they stand up and give a message in tongues and it's in full bore English. You can translate it, but are you using the Holy Spirit's gift of interpreting tongues? Why? You're correct to know, but why? Because you know English. You're using your brain. You're using your learned language. I remember I shared the story with you from my mentor, Pastor Rick, who personally witnessed the story I'm telling you. There's a church service in a Pentecostal environment. Somebody stands up and gives a message in tongues. The pastor stops the service. We pause. We wait. We listen to the person who's sharing the gift of tongues. And then the pastor says, OK, the Bible tells us that if God is doing this, he has provided somebody to translate that back into our native language so we can understand what God wants to say to us. Who in the room can translate this message? And very tentatively, a small hand raises in the back of the room. And it's a young woman, probably graduate student age. And she says, I know. Well, come up here, sister. Share with us your spiritual gift. And the young woman looks very confused and she comes all the way up. The young woman is not saved at all, not a Christian. She's a graduate student who happens to study ancient Akkadian. And that's the language that person just spoke. So since that woman is not a Christian, clearly she's not indwelt with the Holy Spirit. Clearly, she cannot have a spirit gift. But God chose to give someone else a spiritual gift to specifically speak to that one unsaved woman and show her the power of God. Heck, yeah. Go God. That's awesome. But that's not a spiritual gift. That's a learned gift. So yes, to use your question, the gift of English, the linked English language could absolutely be used as the gift of speaking in tongues in a language where English is not known or understood. So I am a foreigner to you, so it is with you. Since you are eager for gifts of the Spirit, again, the Corinthians, they want those gifts. They want to show off. Since you are eager, try to excel in those that will build up the church. So again, if this is a letter of correction, sounds an awful lot like what they were doing is not excelling in that. And then we get to this lax session here. For this reason, the one who speaks in a tongue should pray that they may interpret what they say. If I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful. So what shall I do? I will pray in my spirit, but I will also pray with my understanding. I will sing with my spirit, but I will also sing with my understanding. Notice he is not saying that the ability to speak in tongues disqualifies the ability to pray or teach or praise or worship in your native language. One does not disqualify the other. In fact, the speaking in our native language is way better for us. If all, I mean, Robbie and Melanie and Megan, they are incredibly talented singers who lead our worship. But if each one of them got up here and sang in a different foreign language that none of us understood, number one, that would be weird. But number two, how would we worship with them? Right? If one of them is worshiping in French and the other is worshiping in Swahili and the third one is worshiping in Russian and the words on the screen are in Ugandan, how are any of us supposed to worship as the body of Christ? How are we supposed to jointly come together? So I think you really see Paul's correction here where he says, but I will also sing with my understanding. Otherwise, when you are praising God in the spirit, how can anyone else who's put in the position of an inquirer say amen? There's all the unity, all the joint parts about Christian community are broken. If we speak in languages we don't understand. You are giving thanks well enough, but no one is edified. I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you. Stop. Here's the other verse. I'm not going to dodge because then my continuationist friends are going to say that I'm dodging a very important verse. So when Paul says that he speaks in tongues more than all of you, you got two questions. Remember I said in the introductory message that theologians debate whether the only gift of the use of speaking in tongues is the public gift or if there's also the private ability to pray in tongues. This section right here where Paul talks about I will pray in the spirit and pray in my understanding, I speak in tongues more than all of you, this is one of the key texts that's used to defend the private function of the gift of speaking in tongues. The ability to pray to God in a language that your brain does not understand. Right here, this is where a continuationist would look to and he would say see, Paul is saying that even he prays in both in tongues and in his understanding. In fact, he says that he prays in tongues more than everybody. So if you're a continuationist, you're going to see this as a reference to him using the private gift of tongues and maybe also public gift. He did travel and preach a lot. Maybe he walked into a town where he didn't know their native language and he used tongues in order to get their attention. Sure, if you're a cessationist, it doesn't really matter which gift he's talking about because it doesn't exist today. But if you wanted to debate which one it was, you would probably say it's the public gift. He uses his public gift more on all of his missionary journeys. But either way, those gifts don't exist today. So it's a dead matter. We don't have to debate it. You see how which camp you're in kind of determines how you read the text. That's why I want to present you with options and you decide for yourself. And I will say again, you are welcome in this church to disagree with me on matters of theology that are not salvific in nature. We will not disagree about who God is. We will not disagree about who Jesus is. We will not disagree about who the Holy Spirit is. We will not disagree about what the word of God is. But we can totally disagree about what speaking in tongues is, how it works, where it works, when it works, if it works. And we can worship together because we're family. I speak in tongues. Where are you saying? I will also sing otherwise you're preaching someone else in the choir say, Amen. You are giving thanks well enough. Oh, I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you. But in the church, I would rather speak five intelligible words to instruct others than 10,000 words at a time. I submit to you that here in this section, Paul is presenting the facts that he used the private gift of praying in tongues before going into an arena or going into an area where he doesn't know what's going on. But God knows. So the Holy Spirit within him, he prays in a language that he doesn't understand. And the Holy Spirit in him is praying for what's about to happen, even though he doesn't get it. But when he's in the church, he would rather speak five words of instruction than obviously being very hyperbolic. Five words of teaching versus 10,000 words. Why? Because the five words of teaching can be fruitful. The 10,000 words that no one understands is automatically fruitless because nobody gets it.