Well, good morning again. I didn't get a chance to introduce myself earlier because I didn't want to break our worshipful moment But my name is Bill and I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here at catalyst I want to add one thing Into my introduction. So when I first got here in my first several years The church had a different mission and vision statement and we would repeat that thing every single week So everyone knew what the purpose of the church was Well last year we had a vision team meeting and we wrote I shouldn't say we they majority wrote a new mission and a vision Statement and the new vision of catalyst is to be a community that represents Christ and does three very key things meets needs builds relationships and Matures Christians and that's what I want us to start saying every single week. We are a community that meets needs Builds relationships and matures Christians. We're gonna repeat that each week because that's who we are That is and I have to say that is not my vision for this church That is the vision that this church came up with in the vision team meeting There was a large amount of people different age groups different backgrounds different Lengths of time in the church that is the vision that came out of that room. I support it I believe it's totally biblical. It's in line with who I want to be as a pastor, but this is not my vision for catalyst This is the church's vision for itself is to meet needs build relationships and mature Christians And one of the ways that we mature Christians is by studying his word together Mel I got like a minor ring in like the mid to low tones so Something else that's going to also be a little bit different about our service today is we are in the middle of a series called gifted as you saw an exploration of Spiritual gifts now, let me give you the key thought the key thought is this God gives Supernatural gifts to his people for the building of his church God gives supernatural gifts to his people for the building of his church Now for those of you who have the catalyst app, I'm going to ask you to open it and you'll see that right underneath the announcement graphics There's one that says catalyst live That's if you were not here and you need to jump into the live stream and the second one says sermon Q&A We are continuing our question and answer exploration of the gifts of the Holy Spirit So if you have a question that you would like to ask in real time as I am preaching All you have to do is pull out the catalyst app Those of you who are joining us online Especially those who are in the chat one of our chat hosts is going to drop the link to be able to go directly to that Form online so even if you are watching us on our online campus if you are watching this sermon in real time Like it's give or take 10 35 a.m. Where you are then you will also be able to ask your question It will go to the back and then my wife and miss Donna will be able to feed those questions to me up here And we will get your questions rolled into my sermon So first I want to read you the text that we're going to explore today and and we're gonna have to go back over our Context because it's super vitally important for this week, but if you have your Bibles I want you to turn or tap with me to 1st Corinthians chapter 13 so 1st Corinthians chapter 13. We're going to look at the first 13 verses of this chapter I'm gonna read all of them. We're gonna read it together as one chunk Then we're gonna go back and we're going to chop it up and we're gonna go through What I believe Paul is saying and also address your questions as they come in so here we go 1st Corinthians chapter 13 starting in verse 1 If I speak in the tongues of men or of angels But do not have love. I am only a resounding gong or a clanging symbol If I have the gift of prophecy and I can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge And if I have faith that can move mountains But do not have love I am nothing If I give or if I give all I possess to the poor and give over my body to hardship That I may boast But do not have love I gain nothing Love is patient love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast it is not proud It does not dishonor others it is not Self-seeking it is not easily angered it keeps no record of wrongs Love does not delight in evil But rejoices with the truth It always right me excuse me it always protects it always trusts it always hopes It always perseveres Love never fails But where are there are prophecies? They will cease where there are tongues. They will be stilled where there is knowledge. It'll pass away For we know in part and we prophesy in part But when completeness comes what is in part? disappears When I was a child I talked like a child I thought like a child I reasoned like a child When I became a man I put the ways of childhood behind me For now we see only a Reflection as in a mirror and then we shall see face to face Now I know in part Then I shall know fully Even as I am fully known So a lot of really good meaty stuff in the passage So let me get my my phone right here So when message when questions start coming in my wife will be able to text them up here to me So let's rewind back to the beginning and I just need to remind us of the context So who wrote the book of first Corinthians? The Apostle Paul did where is the city that received the first letter to the Corinthians? Corinth Corinth and what do you know about the city of Corinth? It's sin city. That's right. That's my nickname for it Corinth is the first century Vegas of the Mediterranean world and that's because it is a small bit of land located between two large bodies of water and when Sailors would bring in their cargo They would bring it into the western shore of the land the cargo would be transported across land and then put on another boat And go that way instead of the boat going all the way around because it was faster So Corinth is the kind of city where sailors who have money and who just got off a boat Go to spend their money on the things they want. That's what Corinth is Also, remember that the letter to the Corinthians is a corrective letter. It is not just a teaching letter It's not just hey Timothy remember these things He is correcting things that have gone wrong in the church So just out of curiosity What do you think the context is if you're in the middle of a corrective letter and the Apostle Paul? Has to stop in the middle of spiritual gifts and talk about love It doesn't take like a Sherlock level leap to understand that the Corinthians Were using spiritual gifts in unloving ways. I also think it's very interesting If any of you ever been to a wedding and you've heard Verses in here that I read today repeated it usually starts with love is patient. Love is kind Very rarely do you ever hear a preacher remind you that that section one of the most beloved sections on how important love is Is smack dab in the middle of a three sec three chapter section on spiritual gifts in the church So don't miss all that as the context The first Corinthians sin city Vegas style church is Using spiritual gifts in unloving ways and in the middle of explaining spiritual gifts The Apostle Paul has to make a really big point about the importance of love. So we go here in first Corinthians chapter 13 verse 1 if I speak in the tongues of men or of angels stop. I can't even get through the first sentence. Let's just stop It has been taught in the past that this verse is used as a justification For the gift of speaking in tongues being speaking some sort of non-humanly heaven-born language That is not what Paul is saying here Paul is saying if you read the whole sentence if I speak in the tongues of men or of angels But do not have love I am a resounding gong or a clanging symbol. He's saying tongues of men tongues of angels Resounding gong resounding symbol The active point of sentence one is that without love the spiritual gifts are fruitless He is not trying to establish the distinction between the gift of speaking in tongues being some sort of human-based unlearned language Which is exactly what we see in Acts chapter 2 and in Acts chapter 10 Yes, that's totally the correct definition of speaking in tongues There are those who would like to argue that this verse somehow Establishes a whole nother like realm or sector of heavenly languages. I Find this to be problematic for two reasons number one. It is not the key point of the sentence itself So you're reading a detail that's not really meant to be a foci point second you open another can of worms How do we as humans know like the Bible describes different kinds of angels doesn't it like just off the top of the head cherubim and Seraphim rod, how do we know they speak the same language? Right if you want to all of a sudden say that this verse Establishes an entire nother field of heavenly languages. How do we know that cherubim don't speak English and seraphim are rocking Spanish? Does that mean there's a chair of seraphim spanglish of heavenly languages? Do you see the problem that it creates the purpose of sentence one in this verse is not to establish Heavenly language is a type of language it is to contrast Spiritual or earthly language meaning a language that charita speaks because her brain knows it and a language that charita speaks because her brain Doesn't know it and the Holy Spirit is the spiritual source That's the beginning of the sentence and either one of those languages Charita if you're not loving then the sound that comes out of your face hole is not worth any more than a clanging symbol or a Resounding gong that sentence one so the next time somebody tries to tell you Oh, yeah, you can't know my speaking in tongues because it's a heavenly language Ask them number one where you get it and then ask them which heavenly language and you'll really just freak them out The point of this first section of Paul's of chapter 13 is that if we attempt to exercise Spiritual gifts that are given by the Holy Spirit and we don't love one another in the process The gifts are fruitless Something I see a lot of my Pentecostal and charismatic brothers and sisters do and just so everybody understands if you're new to pastor bill sorry for today because today is a tough one, but I Was raised in a very conservative Baptist Church And I did all of my first like ten years worth of ministry experience in Pentecostal charismatic churches So I referringly call to myself. I am a Baptist hostile and So sometimes I have to take issue with some of the things that my Pentecostal brothers and sisters do on my left and some of times I got to try to drag my super, you know Ungifted not ungifted but cessation is to Baptist friends this way. I Don't think either side of the table can get away with being unloving If you're Pentecostal and unloving you're breaking this verse if you're cessationist and you're unloving you're breaking this verse We would just argue the different kinds of spiritual gifts But doesn't matter what kind of spiritual gift it is Paul is saying clearly if you speak in tongues of manner of angels and keep in mind the Corinthian Church was priding itself on the miraculous gifts Over the more less miraculous looking gifts like teaching or like prophecy So yeah And then he says you look at the next sentence if I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all Knowledge if I have faith that can move mountains But I do not have love I am nothing That to me Jen sounds a lot like what must have been happening in the first Corinthian in the church The first letter to the Corinthian Church. He's saying well guys you guys are priding yourselves on the wrong things and If you had a spirit-born gift, let's just call it prophecy or mysteries or knowledge or faith If the source of your gift is the Holy Spirit, then why are you trying to take the credit for it? If the source of your tongues is the Holy Spirit, why do you think it makes you look any better? You're just a conduit. You're not the power on the line. You're just the wire. That's what he's been saying up to this point however, we are nothing We are fruitless if We do not have love behind our spiritual gifts Here's the third sentence here If I give all I possess to the poor if I give over my body to hardship that I may boast But I do not have love I gain nothing This one to me is is it hits home for me because I want to work hard for Jesus I want to strive I want to serve him why because I totally believe when Jesus said store up for yourselves Treasures in heaven where the moth does not east and the rust does not corrode man I believe that and I want to serve him so hard and and so great with my life But if I do so and end up being unloving I am canceling the very heavenly investments that I'm making Right. I'm trying to store up in that heavenly 401k when I get to the new kingdom and I'm canceling it Because I'm not loving so it doesn't matter whether we're talking about the miraculous gifts prophecy knowledge faith It also doesn't matter if we're talking about Self-sacrifice and work ethic if it's done without love it is useless Now I don't have any questions yet, so that even means I'm doing really good or really bad, but all right We keep going so here's the second thing that I think that that Paul is trying to teach the Corinthians starts here in verse 4 Spiritual love is relational in nature Spiritual love is relational in nature look at verse 4 Love is patient love is kind it does not envy it does not boast it is not proud It does not dishonor others. It is not self-seeking Stop right there. I don't even know where that was in the verse, but just out Patient is Directed towards a person Right as a parent sometimes you have to be patient with your children Sometimes you have to be patient with your spouse Husbands that's not the moment to twitch an elbow just in case you were wondering It's not good for your marriage. Don't do that. It's not good for you Sometimes you have to be patient with yourself Right sometimes you're just not patient enough with yourself patience requires an object of relationship Love is patient you can't be patient without an object of relationship You can't be patient without an object that you're being patient for whether that be yourself or another person love is kind It does not envy it does not boast it is not proud all of these values require care and concern for Someone or something whether it's you or another person Patience kindness lack of envy not boasting not proud not dishonoring others not Self-seeking is wanting to see me above others wanting others to see me is higher than I really am You notice all of these things that we read in the wedding It's because they're all relationally expressed and it's important when I get to stand up there in that moment And you know usually the the groom standing here on my left-hand side the bride is standing here on my right-hand side there's always these little quippy jokes that go back and forth when they're when they're up here the three of us that the rest of the Congregation who's attending the wedding usually doesn't hear especially in the rehearsal dinner It's amazing how when you put these these two young people and they stand up here at this altar Their relationship is visible for everyone to see Because we're taking that relationship to like the big next level right you know now It's not just boyfriend girlfriend now. It's not just engaged, but like whoa. This is like marriage This is like wife-for-life level relationship And that's what's on display in front of the whole church in front of all of their guests Whether you get married in a church or one of the last weddings I did was was that a winery in in New Jersey right Rachel and Matt if you're watching I love you. Thank you for letting me be a part of that day. It was awesome Boom right there their relationship is visible so when we read a passage like this that says love is patient love is kind love Does not envy it does not is not proud It's very easy for the church to visualize how this passage plays out in real life because you're looking at the Young man saying bro. You got to be patient with your wife You got to be kind to your wife to the bride don't there's no envy between you and your husband Do not boast do not be proud don't dishonor each other the relationship is visible because the people are right in front of you That's not this context as much as I love using this passage in a wedding Paul's not preaching a wedding here He's writing a corrective letter about how to use spiritual gifts and reminding them that the love we experience within the body of Christ must be expressed relationally Which is why online campus people I'm gonna pick on you again You can be an online campus person we welcome you to do so but not at the expense of not being in relationship with the church That's why we take it the extra step and have the live chat during the sermon That's why we take it the extra step have the messaging groups built into the app if the online campus is where you join us We welcome you to join us, but not as some voyeuristic church watcher person, right? We're not your Sunday morning Netflix special get in the app get in the messaging join the men's group join the women's group Let's start an online small group that you can be in relationship with other people Because you cannot express the type of spiritual love that the Apostle Paul wants all of us to have here and there If we don't have relationship with one another there is no such thing as a healthy Christian who is on an island by him or herself Then we go forward again Spiritual love is rooted in Christ here is This is verse 6 I think love does not delight in evil But rejoices with the truth stop Love does not delight in evil But rejoices it is made full of joy with the truth Now in our culture today truth is under attack It has been under attack Anybody who sees any you know level of Instagram or tick tock or social media sees that everybody wants to argue Well, this is my truth speak your truth, you know, I'm sorry. I like I love you truth is an exclusive thing Two plus two equals you sure like you're really sure like your gym level sure Okay, then that means two plus two equals five is false That's not a hateful comment That's not me hating on fibers, right? Two plus two just does not equal five That's all there is to it Truth is an exclusive thing You know, I'm sorry, I love you Truth by its very nature is exclusive This is something that the Greek culture understood very well truth is exclusive Okay, I see the question. Let me make this point and then we'll get there So when he is having to instruct the first Corinthian church on the proper usage of spiritual gifts and he's having to remind them That you must be relationally loving that you do not delight in evil But rejoice in the truth he's reminding them That number one love that happens within the body of Christ should never delight in anything that is non Christ focused I don't I don't I think that one went over most your heads Love within the body of Christ can never focus on anything that is not focused We don't love sin we love sinners because Christ died for them Yes, but we don't celebrate sin. We don't exalt evil. We don't exalt unrighteousness We lift up people who struggle absolutely every day I don't care what your sin habit is. You are welcome in this church You are welcome in this church You are welcome in this church You are welcome in this church I don't care what your sin habit is. You are welcome in this church Because I just like super secret in case you didn't realize you're sitting in a room full of sinners me included Right. There's nothing special about any one of us something special about him. He called us. He forgave us. He adopted us Yes, he's the special one. We are not Love does not delight in evil. It rejoices with the truth. You know, Jesus said a really simple statement. I am the way the truth Jesus is the center metric of the church and we cannot express the relational love that he has called us to express If we do not place him at the center of that target. All right question When talking with a nonbeliever, how do we communicate to them that love means correction and conviction at times? Through telling them The truth of the gospel many times nonbelievers we say we are unloving and judgmental for telling them the gospel This is such a wonderful question. Thank you to whoever asked this question. I'm going to rephrase it just a little bit How do we best communicate to a culture that rejects the exclusivity of the gospel because it's unloving That the truth of the gospel is still loving two thoughts here. Number one When you tell a child a young child don't touch the Wait a minute. I'm sorry. I just got to say that again. How many of you show of hands knew the word to that sentence was stove Right Most of us why because either you're a parent and you've had to say it or you're a child and you've had to hear it But mom, I really like the stove It's pretty It's pretty And it's warm and you know what? I like the red color or the blue color if you have a gas stove. That's cool, too And you know what mom? It makes me feel good. I think it's unloving for you to tell me not to touch it You know what Claudia? It's unloving for you to judge my love for stoves. I love stoves a lot Maybe you maybe maybe maybe you're anti stoves. That's what you are You know what Claudia and I'm picking on Claudia because she understands my argument. I'm going Claudia. You're an anti stoves You're stova phobic Right. You're stova phobic. If you really loved me, you would let me do what I want because what I want is to touch the stove No, if I really loved you, I would tell you you're about to do something bad for you That's going to have consequences that you are ignoring. That's not stova phobic It sounds fun. I know I know right Sean. It's funny when I make up a word like stova phobic It's not so funny when I use the word Islamophobic Now all of a sudden everybody got quiet, right? No, when you do something that's going to have consequences and I don't want you to experience the consequences Telling you not to do that thing because it's going to have consequences is the epitome of love It is not unloving. It's not stova phobic It's maybe you don't understand it It's not stova phobic It's maybe you don't understand And you know what? Has anybody And parents, I'm going to ask a question. We're live streaming right now. Do not raise your hand to the question I'm about to ask Has anybody ever thought in their head, parents don't raise your hand Maybe I should just let them touch the stove Zola, I said don't raise your hand Why would we not want parents to do that Because parents are supposed to protect their children Parents aren't supposed to bring children harm Mom, you just don't understand You don't understand how much I love the stove You don't understand how good the stove makes me feel If I could just touch it, I know that I would feel whole as a human being If I had a stove If I had a stove that I could touch every day No You know why I know that? Because I know how a stove works It's not just for your emotional feeling good The stove is there to make stuff hot and cook stuff So we're not sick when we eat foods Just because you have decided to change the purpose of the stove to something that's not real Doesn't mean the reality of the consequences of touching the stove aren't still very real So to the questioner, I love your question When they say you're unloving because you say the gospel is the only way I would respond and say it's only unloving if I'm wrong It is the epitome of loving if I'm right Those of you who are taking my online Bible class If you haven't made it to I think lesson 6 or lesson 7 This question comes up, right? This question comes up Is it unloving to tell people the truth of the gospel? Only if we're wrong If we're wrong, then you know what, June? We are stova phobic We should let people do what they want It's my life, why don't you let me do what you want Because I love you and don't want you to go to hell That's why I don't let you do what you want Why don't I let my child touch the stove? Because I don't want my child to have to live with the consequences of their bad choices If I can save you from those very painful consequences, I can Now what do you do for the child who is so strong willed that she has to push past you And touch the stove yourself You do everything you can to stop her from touching the stove Or him, not picking on any one of my kids, right? Because all of my kids right now are going, is he talking about me? This is like I have 3 daughters, right? They're all like, which one are we talking about? A child, the random proverbial child If they touch the stove and burn themselves after you've warned them not to That's on them But we don't Not tell our children the truth When the consequences could be painful So that's, the apologist in me, that's how I deal with them I also, if somebody comes to you and says, it's totally judgmental for you to say that you're right and I'm wrong The other easy way to do that is, I'm sorry, wait, are you saying that you're right and I'm wrong? The accusation itself is self-defeating When somebody comes up to you and says, no, you can't say Jesus is the only way That's wrong Wait, are you saying that what I'm saying is wrong? Is it unloving to say that what someone says is wrong? Because then you're being unloving to me right now Right? It's a completely self-defeating argument But I happen to like the stove-phobic way better So write that one down, we're going to add that to our list of like Pastor Bill's random English terms We're going to try to get that one onto Wikipedia, stove-phobic Verse 6 Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth The next sentence It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres I should have read this one It doesn't protect a child to let him touch a stove It doesn't protect a sinner to let them drive themselves right into hell It doesn't Now, let's go there since we're talking about the God Oh, another question, sorry ADHD, squirrel One of the main reasons for the sending of the Holy Spirit was to give the disciples power What did they need power to do? Was it for their gifts or for something else? Fantastic question I submit to you that the entire reason that Jesus said to his disciples Don't go anywhere yet guys Stay in town until you get the gift my father will send you Those are the words of Jesus at the end of the Gospels, the beginning of the book of Acts I submit to you the reason that Jesus told the disciples that you need the power Is the same reason that Jesus did ministry through miraculous power The validation of the truth of the teaching When Jesus does a miracle Like, you know, think about the story where the four friends are lowering their crippled friend through the roof Have you ever thought about the fact that that story takes place during a church service? Like how disruptive would it be right now? Like Gretchen, just above you somebody starts hacking a hole through the ceiling And like ceiling particles just start falling on you and your kids And Paul, Jesus just keeps on going Jesus just keeps on teaching To the point that now sun and daylight are breaking through the roof To the point that we're now lowering a stretcher of a human being Down through the ceiling Like Shawn, at what point does everybody look at Jesus and go Jesus are we gonna like take five? Like are we gonna You know, I mean sometimes the humanity of the story But no, then Jesus said My son, your sins are forgiven And the Pharisees that are in the back, right The Pharisees, they get man, they get all up in it And they're like, who is this man to forgive sins And then Jesus tells them He says, listen, what is easier for a human to say Your sins are forgiven or get up and walk But just so you don't This is the new international bill version Just so you don't get it twisted Right? Just so you don't get it confused So you don't get it twisted I can forgive sins And I can also heal Bro, get up and walk And the dude carries his mat out Jesus used the power of miraculous healing To validate the message That he and only he could forgive sins I submit to whoever the questioner was That that's the same purpose Of the Holy Spirit's power in the book of Acts Is to validate the message of the resurrection And of the teachings of Jesus Another question How should we respond to people Who are even things like simulation theory And are therefore agnostic Okay I don't know who you are, but I love you So first we have to explain what simulation theory is Because half the people in the church Who aren't as geekish as whoever this is And yeah, I'm going to call you out This is probably a dude Because we're really geeky So simulation theory Has anybody ever seen the movie The Matrix Right? If you're under the age of 18, you're forgiven The movie The Matrix was predicated on an idea That what you and I experience as reality is not really real That all of our brains are connected to a computer somewhere And what we are living in is a simulation That makes your brain believe That you're sitting in a chair Or that you're watching a screen Or that you're actually eating food But you're not actually doing any of that Because all it is is electrical impulses in your brain That is kind of a modern, techno-centric take On a very old, philosophical, Greek question How do I know anything is real? That's the question underneath The Matrix That's the question underneath the simulation theory Is how do we know that anything is real? And ultimately at the end of the day All we as human beings have To determine what is real and not real Is our sense experience Anybody hear that? So did I just knock on the pulpit? And how do you know that? Did I just do it again? How do you know the difference? Because you can hear it, right? Our sense experience is all we have So the question here is How do we respond to people who believe Like simulation theory and they're therefore agnostic This is a convenient escape hatch That no one lives in the real world You know why? Because when they want to come to religion And say, well, you know, we could just be living in a simulation And you know, you can't really know for sure I would just turn to them and go, But do you have that idea when you go to the bank? When you ask the bank teller How much money is in your bank account? When you pull out your debit card To order your Chick-fil-A On any day that's not Sunday Do you believe that your debit card is real? Do you believe that the money on your credit card Or your checking account is real? When you put gas in your car To drive it down the street Do you believe that the gas is real? Or do you question the validity of the gas Every time you put it in your car? No one lives in reality like the world is a simulation It's a convenient escape hatch When people want to deny the reality That religion is truth They want to unwind that somehow So how would I respond to someone? I would ask them, do you really live simulation theory every single day? And even if they said yes Then I would say, okay And Barry, I'm just going to pick on you Because I know you and I can get into this But I'm going to ask you Do you believe that your debit card is real? And I'm going to pick on you Because I know you and I can get into it If you believe in the simulation theory Doesn't that automatically imply Some sort of super intelligence That designed the simulation you're connected to Doesn't automatically imply the existence That somebody had to build the matrix In order to be plugged into it So even if you want to exist in the simulation theory You're still giving me God You're just denying your own sense experience Which sounds really, really stupid Like that's the actual apologetic term for that You want to just deny your absolute sense experience And that's silly So that's how I would respond to that And then next question Can you tend to be enabling When you exercise love inappropriately By not holding the accountable Or be responsible Not holding someone to be accountable or responsible I would say yes and no And here's the difference We as Christians are required to represent the savior of love He is the epitome of love God's character is the measurement of love We are required to be compassionate And we are required to be truthful Finding the balance is the art That's the nature of it, right If all you are is truthful with no love You're the kind of Christian that everybody hates You're the judgmental person Who's beating everybody over the head with the Bible And just making them feel not good about themselves Your representation of God Is fully judgment and no love If you're the kind of Christian that's so loving That you can't make a judgment call Then you're the universalist You're the kind of Christian that I hate Because you have no standards whatsoever Everything is okay And at the end of the day God's going to let everyone go to heaven Because he's just that loving That's like saying at the end of the day Every parent is going to let their children touch the stove And encourage them to do it again It's like ignoring that they're not loving How's that possible? You've got to accept the fact that there are consequences Both of these ideas are flawed So since you specifically question or use the word enabling I'm assuming that you are implying So to the questioner You are implying That not challenging a sin issue in someone's life Is enabling them to continue doing that sin You're making one step that I think is not fair You are not making that person make a choice I use my marriage as an example. If I were to have an affair, something that I absolutely would never do, but let's just say I was planning an affair, and I'm still breathing, you know that that's not true. But let's just say I was planning an affair, and my good friend Jim found out that I was planning an affair, and he stepped in to try to stop me from following through on my very sinful act. I tell him, go away Jim, I wanna do what I wanna do. Is Jim complicit in my adultery? No, because Jim didn't do it. Even, right, Jim's like, oh praise Jesus, that was a good one for me, right? No, you are not complicit in someone else's choices. Now what I would say though is, Jim's complicit if he conceals it from my wife. Mm-hmm, yeah, now it's getting real. I don't know if anyone's gonna ask any questions after this one. Jim's complicit if he doesn't tell my wife. Is Jim complicit in my murder? Nope, Jim just told Melanie she did what she needed to do. No, Jim is not complicit in my sin when I make a choice. He can get in my way, he can try to stop me, he can tell my wife, you didn't tell my wife, tell my children, they will string me up. Yes they will, because my children love righteousness and they love their mama, both of which are good things. But no, so to the person, I don't believe that you are enabling someone by not challenging them, because you can't be enabling them even if you do challenge them. However, if the Holy Spirit is nudging you, you need to go talk to your friend. You need to try to get them to back down. And you don't do it. I don't think you're enabling their sin, but you're ignoring the leading of the Holy Spirit. I don't wanna get to heaven, and Jesus, and stand at the bed with seat of judgment, and Casey, Jesus comes out and he's like, hey, why did you ignore me for that entire month I told you to go talk to your friend about that thing? That one I don't wanna answer for. I'm like, I was afraid. That's the only answer I got, right? So no, I don't believe you're enabling. Another question, if we are his church body, we're doing life with his love, why is there so much hatred directed at Jesus? Just, can we all just collectively go, ugh. I love whoever the questioner is, and my heart breaks for you and with you, because I think you're totally right. The only good answer that I can have is that we live in a broken world trying to represent a holy and good savior. And the world is gonna hate us because it hated him. Like I saw a reel this week on Instagram, and it was a youth pastor, and he was responding to the conflict, if you've not seen the new lead of Jesus Christ Superstar playing the character of Jesus Christ, is Cynthia Arevo, who is a gay black female, and she is portraying the character of Jesus Christ on the Broadway stage. And he made the response, I think is exactly right. As Christians, like we find that offensive, right? Because Jesus is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Jesus was also not white with blonde hair and blue eyes. Jesus was born a Mediterranean Middle Eastern man. You wanna know what Jesus looked like? Go find my nephew, Yusuf. He's the best picture of what I can give you. He is a walking, talking, born, bred, Yemenese, good-looking young man. I got a good-looking great niece because of him. Jesus looked like that, and to say anything else is just historically inaccurate. That's not to be judgmental, it's just to be historically inaccurate. But why should we, like, why do we get surprised when sinners act like sinners? Right? Why do we get surprised when the world that crucified Jesus makes fun of him after the fact? They made fun of him during his earthly life. They made fun of him on the cross, literally Acts chapter two. They made fun of Peter and all of the apostles speaking in tongues. They're like, bro, you must be drunk. Peter's answer, dude, we're not drunk, it's only nine. Like, we haven't pre-gamed yet. Like, go back and read Acts chapter two. That's my funny take, that was Peter's answer. He's like, brothers and sisters, we can't be drunk, it's only nine in the morning. That was his, that's literally in the Bible. If you haven't read it, go read it, that's what he said. I am not surprised. You know what else is funny, since we're talking about being stova-phobic? It's totally okay to make fun of Jesus, but it's not okay to make fun of Muhammad. It's totally okay to poke fun at Jesus. It's not okay to poke fun at any number of the Hindu gods. It's totally okay to make fun of Jesus. Nobody makes fun of Thor. Why is that? Why is it that out of all the gods and all the world and all the cultures, the only one that is worldwide, culturally acceptable to make fun of is Jesus? That's a question that anybody should be willing to answer. I think the answer is somewhat obvious, because making fun of him is the only one that's real. The world hates us because the world hated him. Why is there so much division within the church? Because while we are the body of Christ, we live in sinful bodies in a simple, corrupted world, and the enemy wants nothing more than people to hate Christians, so he uses us to hurt each other. Right? Like anybody ever heard the term church hurt? Why is there not DMV hurt? Right? Like Dino, I love you, there's no offense coming, right? So we have a deacon in church that works with DMVs, I gotta be really careful with my DMV jokes, right? Well, how come there's no DMV joke? How come there's no hospital ER waiting room trauma? Right? We call it church hurt. We blame the church for the actions of sinful people, because then it allows people to disconnect from the body of Christ, where they are totally whole and healthy. All right, I'm running long, so I got one more question, then we gotta bring it in. How is God loving if we are being punished for Adam and Eve's sin we inherited? Yes, we're all sinners, but it's not our fault, we're sinners. Yes! Whoever asked this question, I love you, you're brilliant, double points. So let's talk about what we call, and I do love the fact that you used the word inherited, very theologically correct. Fantastic, good job. God is loving, so let's rewind all the way back to the Garden of Eden. In the Garden of Eden, how many trees are in the middle of the garden? There's two trees in the middle of the garden. One of them is the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. What's the tree right next to it? The tree of life. What was, and how many trees was Adam and Eve told they're not allowed to eat from? Only one of the two, which means they were allowed to eat of the tree of life freely, as much as they want. So, and this is why I say everything comes back to the garden. Everything has to come back to the garden. If you get the garden wrong, you misinterpret the rest of the Bible. In the middle of the garden, there are two trees. The tree of life. Now, theologians have debated and theorized what exactly the tree of life is. So you basically got a couple of choices. Number one, if you eat from the tree of life, you're immortal forever. Number two, if you eat from the tree of life, it restores humanity back to its original created state, which means continued eating from the tree of life would in essence create eternal life. But you're not eternal as a being. The fruit is what restores life. So there's a couple theories there, but there was only one tree they weren't allowed to eat from, and that was the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, or the tree of morality. God wanted to be the source of good and evil. And what was the punishment for eating of the wrong tree? Don't eat of this tree or you will surely die. Death is the consequence of sin, of disobedience to God. Paul says this when we get to Romans, for the wages of sin is, right, that's established in the garden. We inherited consequences for a decision that was made prior to our lifetime. Now somebody's gonna say, well, that's totally unjust. Well, let's follow that thought. The consequence of eating of the wrong tree in the garden is the death of a sinless human being. How do I know that? Because until they ate of the tree, they weren't sinful. They're the only two human beings to ever walk on the face of the earth who were sinless, but not God incarnate. Adam and Eve, Genesis chapter one and two. But then when they ate of the tree, they became corrupted. And their nature, the very nature of who they are as human beings became corrupted. And then that corrupted nature is handed down to every child that is ever born from a corrupted parent. And all you gotta do is just basically trace it all back. So how is this fair? How are we sinners? Because theologians make a distinction between inherited sin and committed sin. So here's the difference. If a woman who is pregnant takes illegal or illicit drugs while the baby is in her womb, the baby is born with an addiction to that drug, true or false? True. But has the baby ever taken the drug themself? False, right? So you can have a baby who is born addicted to a drug that they never willingly took because of the choice of the generation before them. The choice of the parent generation inherits or passes down an addiction to a physical thing like a drug to a child. Now, if that child is left to their own devices and not interrupted, will the child seek out the drug they are addicted to? Almost definitely. You know that because the baby goes into withdrawals the moment the baby is disconnected from the mother. The baby goes through withdrawal, which means the baby would naturally choose to seek out the drug on their own. Inherited sin is being born addicted to this thing called sin. If sin were a drug, you wouldn't be arguing that it's unfair. Because if a mama does meth, the baby's born addicted to meth, you just call those consequences. You don't call it unfair. What I'm saying is, sin is our genetic addiction. The corruption that happened in Adam and Eve was handed down generationally, inherited by every human being who is born. And when we chase the nature that we were born with, we then commit our own sins and we double down and we pass our addiction onto our children. This is why when you get to the New Testament, this is how it all ties together, the big theological bow and then we're gonna bring it in. Jesus was not born in the natural way that all human beings are born. Now, there is a debate, and I know my wife's head is spinning right now. There is a debate over how exactly sin is handed down from generation to generation. What's not debated is that it is in fact is handed down, but it is debated how it is handed down. So I am in the camp that believes that our corrupted human nature is handed down biologically. That something was corrupted in Adam and Eve and that sinful desire to be selfish, because remember, Adam is part ground, part earth, and part spiritual, right? It got corrupted as a whole, which means the physical and the spiritual together experienced corruption. Well, the price for eating of that tree all the way back in the garden is the death of a sinless human being. God is still owed the death of a sinless human being in order to pay the price of Eden, which is why when Jesus is born, God implanted within Mary, the Holy Son of God, to be born as a sinless human being, so that his death will pay the sacrifice that Eden was owed, and thereby buy for us a new nature. Think about John chapter three, what did Jesus say? That in order to enter the kingdom of God, you must be born again. That term, born again, or born from above, which is the literal term, you must be born from above. Jesus is born as a sinless human being. He dies as the sacrifice to pay for Eden. He then purchased for us the new man or the new nature that you hear described in the New Testament, and when we are saved, when we are forgiven, our inherited and committed sins are forgiven. The consequences are forgiven, but I don't stop being a broken human being. Megan, my nature is still my nature until my soul is taken out of this incredibly good looking Hawaiian body, right? And I'm given a new glorified body at the end of the day, I still live in the same corrupted body that I was born into, which means I still live with a sin nature, which is what Paul talks about. I do the things I don't wanna do, and I don't do the things I do wanna do. It is all explained if you track it back to Eden, and you understand we were born addicted to sin, but Jesus wasn't, and Jesus died as a sinless human being, and he bought for us a new nature. God is not unloving because sin requires a penalty. He is just. See, here's the other problem. People wanna examine God's love and take it over his mercy and his justice. No, God is lovingly just and justly merciful and mercifully loving, all of them. So in his justice, sin requires death. In his love, he dies himself. In his mercy, he counts his death as ours. That's the gospel. From a very theological perspective, that's the gospel. We are not being punished for Adam and Eve's sin. We would owe death for the sin that we inherited that we would naturally follow through on our own, just like a baby being born addicted to meth would naturally seek out meth, and an inherited sin becomes committed sin, and that's why the sin nature desires sin. Does that all make sense? That really has absolutely zero to do with spiritual gifts, but let me just get you to the end. Again, those of you who have the Catalyst app, I'm not gonna preach the rest of my sermon because I'm already running long. All of my sermon notes are in the Catalyst app. I put them there for you every single week. So what I'd like you to do is if you open the Catalyst app, you'll see on the announcements, which we're gonna get to in a minute, right here at the top, the blue screen that says sermon notes. If you click on that, there is all of my notes, all of my sub points. If you have any questions, please ask them. I think the questions that we got asked today are very good questions. I think they needed to be talked about and explained. That's just the nature of a Q&A series.