Good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being a part of our service, whether you are here in our Wilmington campus or you are joining us online. Thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family. Worship team, I have to say you guys did fantastic today. That sounded amazing. We are incredibly blessed. And listen, my wife and I have been doing ministry and specifically worship ministry for many years. And it is an amazing gift when you get to work with a group of people that are talented and skilled and also humble and team players. And you know there is no divas and there is no, you know I have to sign my next recording contract. And everybody is just fun to work with and your worship team is just really, really awesome. And so as a church we are super blessed. Today we are going to do something a little bit different. So each year I try to plan at least one teaching series that involves question and answer. So for those of you who already have the Catalyst app, please do me a favor and pull out the Catalyst app. You will be using it today in church. If you are joining us online, I know that our chat host has already posted the link in the online chat. All you have to do is click on that and it should open it in an external browser window. If you are joining us for the first time and we are not your home church, you can go to catalyst302.com slash app and download our app. It's free. But we will be doing a question and answer teaching series for the next several weeks. So this is one that was requested two years ago, but then Revelation took a little bit long for us to get through. So finally, this is my teaching series on what does the Bible say about spiritual gifts? So what does Paul actually say about that? So we're going to do a Q&A series. So if you want to get your Catalyst app loaded up, you'll see right there underneath the main announcement window on the right hand side, there's a little button that says Q&A. If you tap on that button, it is going to open the open question form. You are going to be able to submit your questions in real time while I am preaching, especially if you're joining us online. If you are watching in real time, you will absolutely get your questions in. If you happen to be going back and watching this sermon after Sunday morning and it's not 10, 20, whatever where you are right now, then you can still submit your question. It'll come to me in an email and I can email you, but I won't be able to actually weave it into the sermon. So our tech team in the back has got the, when you submit a question, it's going to be related to them. They're going to give it to me right here on my phone. And because we have a couple of awesome baptisms to celebrate, we're not going to go through the big Bible story. So we'll just have to do that on a different week. So let me give you the key thought that's going to hold all of these, this new teaching series together. Here it is. God gives supernatural gifts to his people for the building of his church. And I know that sounds like a super simple statement. God gives supernatural gifts to his people for the building of his church. Now, for the entirety of this teaching series, we're going to be in the book of First Corinthians. We're going to go First Corinthians 12, First Corinthians 13 and First Corinthians 14, the whole section where he deals with this topic of spiritual gifts. So if you brought your Bible with you, please do me a favor. Turn or tap. If you're using the catalyst app, there's a Bible at the bottom. Just hit the button on the bottom. It says Bible and you can navigate directly to First Corinthians chapter 12. We are going to look at the first 11 verses. And that's going to be awesome. My iPad decides it doesn't want to play ball today. So guess what? There's more than one way to cook that cat. That's the phrase, right? Yep. More than one way to skin a cat. It actually has nothing to do with cats. It's catfish. It's not that I don't like cats, although I don't like cats. In case you were ever wondering in the ancient Egyptian religion, cats are the guardians of hell. I don't think they got everything wrong. So let's take a look at First Corinthians chapter 12. I want to start reading in verse one. We'll look at this piece and then we will go back. We will chop it up and you'll be able to submit your questions as we go. So here we go. First Corinthians chapter 12, starting in verse one. Now about the gifts of the spirit, brothers and sisters, I do not want you to be uninformed. You know that when you were pagans, somehow or other you were influenced and led astray by mute idols. Therefore, I want you to know that no one who is speaking by the Spirit of God says, Jesus be cursed. And no one can say Jesus is Lord, except by the Holy Spirit. There are different kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit distributes them. There are different kinds of service, but the same Lord. There are different kinds of working, but in all of them, everyone, it is the same God at work. Now to each one, the manifestation of the Spirit is given for the common good. And then we get to verse eight. There it is. And there is one given through the Spirit, a message of wisdom to another, a message of knowledge by means of the same Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by that one Spirit, to another miraculous powers, to another prophecy, to another distinguishing between spirits, to another speaking in different kinds of tongues, and still to another, the interpretation of tongues. All these are the work of one and the same Spirit. And he distributes them to each one just as he determines. Okay. So that was the full breadth of what we're going to look at this morning. Just another thing, if you're in the catalyst app, you'll notice the first announcement says sermon notes. There are a digital set of sermon notes for you. I did not put fill in the blank because I didn't think trying to fill in the blank and do Q&A all at the same time. That's just like a whole lot. And my ADHD brain can't track. But at the end of the message, if you want today's sermon notes, just click on that tab, go to the bottom, and you can email them directly to yourself. So let's go back. I need to give you a little background on the book of 1 Corinthians. So pop quiz, who wrote the book of 1 Corinthians? The Apostle Paul did. Pop quiz, where did the people live who received the book of 1 Corinthians? Corinth. Corinth. Fantastic. We're rolling. Here's what you need to understand about the city of Corinth at the time that Paul wrote the letter. There are two ancient cities of Corinth. There's the old Corinth and there's the new Corinth. Why do you say? Because the people in the city of Corinth decided to get there, you know, get all uppity and defy Rome. And Rome came in and beat them and destroyed the city. And then they rebuilt the city of Corinth. Paul is writing to new Corinth, not old Corinth. And here's why you need to understand that. Corinth is a new city. It's been rebuilt. It's shiny. It's flashy. It's also crazy amounts of wicked. If the ancient world had a Vegas, it would have been Corinth. It is the sin city of the ancient Mediterranean world. And here's why. First question. Will you be addressing speaking in tongues today? Yes. I will be addressing all the gifts. I will be addressing and in the sermon notes, I gave you my custom written definitions. For each one of those gifts. So it will be very unambiguous for exactly what those gifts mean when we get to that section. So Corinth was rebuilt. It's new. But if you look at the geography of where Corinth is located, it is located on a small little patch of land between two very large bodies of water. And what would happen since water was the primary means of moving and distributing goods is boats would come in on one side. They would bring in the goods. They would travel the goods across land to get in another set of boats and then distribute them across the Mediterranean Sea. Just pop quiz. I'm sorry. Before I say this, is there anybody in this room that was ever in the U.S. Navy? Fantastic. Then sir, a thank you for your service. B, I apologize for what I'm about to say. What happens when sailors what happens when sailors get off their boats? Where do they go first? Don't say it out loud. Just put it in your head. Right. Sailors immediately get off the boat and they go to spend in all the places they can't spend when they're on the ship. That's exactly what Corinth is. It's right in the middle where sailors and pirates, they get off their boat as the goods are traveling across land. They stop at Corinth and they spend money on all the things you think sailors want to spend money on. That's the city of Corinth. That's the audience that Paul is writing to. The second thing you need to understand about the book of 1st and 2nd Corinthians is they are letters of correction. They are not letters of encouragement. This is not, hey, Jen, I see you holding it down at the salon. Way to represent Jesus. Let's be encouraged. No. This is more like, hey, Jerry, I see you. Bruh, get it right. Right. That's what 1st Corinthians is. So when we read Paul, and especially on a topic like this, when we read Paul and he is writing instructions about what's going on in the world, I need you to understand that the Corinthians are using them wrongly, which is why they are in a letter of correction. They would be using them rightly if it was a letter of encouragement, but they are using them wrongly. Basically, Christians brought their wealthy, self-important, and liberty-seeking culture into church with them, and that influenced their exercise of the gifts of the Spirit, and that is why we have them. That is why we have the section of scripture that we have today. So I need you to understand that it's a letter of correction. I need you to understand the city is new, and I need you to understand that the people are wicked, and you got the sailor reference as to why. In the specific section of the book, since we're not doing the whole book like we did with James, in the specific section here that begins in chapter 12, Paul is already addressing irregularities that happen within Christian worship. The balance of individual Christian freedom with a focus or the purpose on the church as a whole, that's our overguiding theme here. So I just want to give you all of that so as we dive into this verse, we're not just reading it and deciding what it means for me. First, we have to read what does it mean for them. Remember, the Bible was not written to you, it was written for you. So to understand what he means, you got to know who he's writing to, situation, all of that. Next question. Do you believe that the baptism of the Holy Spirit with the evidence of speaking in tongues is as much for believers today as it was during the time when Jesus walked the earth? Yes. Simple answer. Scripture gives no absolute verse that says any miraculous gift that occurred in the book of Acts cannot occur today. So I'm what you call a continuationist. Now, there's another viewpoint that's called the cessationist. So the cessationist has to defend the perspective that God specifically stated a time when the miraculous gifts that we see described in the book of Acts, and he said they have stopped. I will no longer use those things. There is no text in scripture that says those words. Now, the argument from the cessationist side is going to be, well, history shows us. And I think that's totally point. How do I as a continuationist answer the cessationist? I'll say history absolutely shows that. In fact, we can see in the writings of the early church fathers and Doug, I know you're going to say it in the chat, but I can't think of the dude's name right now that there was absolutely a time in about the beginning of the second century where the church fathers noticed there's not as much miraculous activity happening. And they observed it. Observing the way God does something is not him dictating what he does. Okay. So the cessationist is going to defend the perspective. The miraculous gifts have no place in the church today. Their primary defense will be there either use the text that says now that we have that which is full, and they'll claim that that refers to the canonization of the New Testament. That's an interpretation. That's not a directive from God. And number two, they'll use the historical argument that says, well, aren't there absolutely less miraculous gifts today? Totally there are. And I submit that is a true statement as a continuationist. We shouldn't try to ignore history. But when I'm going to reply back to them as it goes, does either one of those things equal the weight of the instruction of scripture? And I submit to you that no. So I'm in the continuationist camp. I think it would be really hard for a cessationist to teach on the gifts of the Holy Spirit as an entire series. I think that's kind of like a one off message. You just say it doesn't happen. Next question. The Bible is the Bible is clear what the gift of tongues was during Pentecost. Where are people getting this uttering nonsensical words? Okay. Good question. But let me get to that when I get to the list of the gifts of spirit at the end. And I'm going to go through each one of the gifts that are mentioned, give you my personal definition for it and talk through it. So if you're wondering about what the gifts are, just let me get there and then we can hit all those questions. So first thing I need you to see here, Paul is addressing the difference between what I'm going to call pagan ecstasy and spiritual gifts. So let's take a look at. So the first point in the sermon is pagan ecstasy and spiritual gifts are not the same. First Corinthians 12. Let's look at verses one through three. Here's verse one. Now the gifts of the spirit. Stop. I got to make another fantastic point or at least that I thought was fantastic. The word gifts does not exist in the Greek text. Let me say that again just in case you missed it. The word gift does not exist in the Greek text. It is an English interpolation of Paul's actual words in this text. His actual word says now about spiritual things. My brothers and sisters. The word gift is not in this text in this verse. It does appear later. But when he says we read now the gifts of the spirit in English, we focus on the word gift as the noun and of the spirit as the prepositional phrase. Look, Mom, I learned my English operating as an adjective to the word gift. And our language focuses on the word gift as if that's the point of the sentence. The word gift doesn't even exist in the Greek. What Paul is actually saying is the of the spirit, that prepositional phrase in English. That's actually the point. It's not the fact that it's a gift. It's a fact that it's spiritual. And here's why that's important. Because Paul is not writing in a day where monotheism or belief in one God is the primary perspective. He is writing to a wicked pagan city that's got tons of different kinds of altars and tons of different kinds of churches and tons of different kinds of theological prostitutes. So when he says now about spiritual things, my brothers and sisters, he's not just addressing spiritual things within Christianity. He is addressing everyone in the city of ancient New Corinth who thinks that they are spiritual. He is challenging what they're doing. Remember, it's a letter of correction. What they're doing. And then look at the audience, just like we saw. Next question. How do we know which spiritual gift we have? Good question. Melanie, resend that to me when I get to the end. So when he says now about spiritual things, which we translate as gifts of the spirit, and then he says brothers and sisters, those of you who are with us for James, right? That's that word Adelphoi, the plural of Adelphos, meaning all believers, everyone who believes in Jesus. So what he's about to say applies to everybody who believes in Jesus. And it's about the spiritual things, the way we live our spiritual life. And then he ends verse one with I do not want you to be uninformed. Here's what's 100 percent ironic. The Corinthian Church thought that they were the most informed when it came to spiritual things. I don't know if you know anybody like that. You know anybody who just thinks that they are absolutely the bee's knees when it comes to understanding everything there is about the Holy Spirit. Here's my problem. Sharita, we're creatures. We're not the creator. How does the thing that's made ever say that it knows everything about the one who made it? Like that doesn't even make sense to me. But in the first century context, the Corinthians are the ones that are just wiling out with their spiritual gifts. If there was a hometown for Pentecostalism in the first century church, it was the church of Corinth. They were wiling out with their spiritual gifts to the point that they thought they were so spiritual. And the apostle Paul has to write him a letter of correction. He's got to go, guys, let's bring this in. Verse two, know that when you were pagans, stop. Here's another thing that's really interesting. Know that when you were pagans. Now, this is something that we as American Christians can't really relate to. Like I grew up in a Christian family. I grew up going to a Baptist church just over the river in central New Jersey. My family was paroled out of New Jersey and I moved to the south as a child. But we didn't stop going to church. So I never grew up as a quote unquote pagan. That word pagan literally means ethnos. It's where we get our word ethnicity from. What he means is everybody who's not Jewish. You did not grow up worshiping the one true God. You grew up worshiping whatever, whatever, whatever that you worship. And then he notices. Remember that or know that when you were not worshiping the one true God, somehow or other you were influenced. And you were led astray by mute idols. The word influenced and led astray are two different verbs, but they kind of carry the same connotation. It means to be carried, to be brought away, to be guided, to be led, to be instructed, to be directed. When you feel me there, all those words. And I love the word mute. The word mute literally is afonos. It means silent. The idols in the city of Corinth at this time were incapable of speaking or leading, but they're being led by it. So how do we how do we understand this? Well, not to put a super fine point on it, but I think there are times where people can be so emotionally ecstatic that they mistake their own emotions or their own ecstasy for the direction and the leading of the Holy Spirit. Right? You can be so in your feels and I feel my way through life and I feel what this idol is telling me to do. But the problem is the idol is not telling you Jack. It's your heart. It's your emotions. And that's what happened a lot in this in the ancient city of Corinth. Their pagan worship was so emotionally driven. And here's the big problem I have. And I know I just bragged on our worship team. I'll tell you another thing. I love question. Did the spiritual gifts get confused with what people thought was witchcraft back then? I'm going to give you like a 50 50. Yes. Whoever asked that question. I think the problem in the correction that Paul is bringing is they are confusing their emotional ecstasy with actual gifts from the Holy Spirit. So if you want to classify that as witchcraft, sure. Later when we get to discerning of spirits, we're going to talk about the fact that there are actually gifts that come from demonic forces. So that would 100 percent be witchcraft. But I don't want to say yes to the question because that would be implying that I mean everything would be under the under that witchcraft umbrella. I think there are people who are absolutely drawn away and led by demonic spirits, but those things can actually talk. Paul's reference here is you're led astray. You're literally being led by something that can't lead you, which means you're being led by your response to that empty space. To that empty thing, not the thing itself. You following me so far? So city of Corinth wicked. They're being led away by their own emotional ecstasy, their own feels instead of actually hearing the Spirit of God. Then verse three, therefore, meaning because y'all used to be pagans, because y'all used to give in to y'all's hearts, because y'all used to be led away by all your emotional ecstasy. And then verse three, I want you to know. Stop. Here's where he brings it in. We cannot, as the contemporary Christian church, say that the only thing that defines the spiritual gifts is the way we feel. Because Paul said y'all were pagans and you used to think all that stuff was spiritual gifts. You used to think you were led away by mute and silent idols. And then in verse three, he says, I want you to know literally log off to know. And here's what he says. I want you to know that no one who is speaking by the Spirit of God says Jesus be cursed and no one can say Jesus is Lord, except by the Holy Spirit. Now, this verse has been overused a lot, especially if you come from a if you come from a church background that deals in deliverance and praying over demonic entities. A lot of times this verse is used almost like a litmus test. That's not really the intention here. What he's saying is, if you look at the three verses in context, y'all used to be led away by idols that can't speak. Y'all used to be led by things that can't lead. So we need to go back and we need to test the veracity or the test, the truth of what's going on. Here's what I want you to understand. No one that is truly speaking by the Spirit of God says Jesus be cursed. He's not saying that it's impossible for you to say those actual words. What he's saying is it is antithetical that if you worship Jesus as Lord, that you would also curse him outright. Does that make sense? Here's the other cool thing about the Greek. That that words Jesus be cursed is literally Jesus anathema. We have an English word that's the same exact word anathema. But here's what's interesting about the Greek interpretation is it could be Jesus be cursed, meaning Jesus is the one who's getting cursed. He's the object of the curse. And I'm the agent. I'm the one doing the cursing. But it could also be Jesse, I curse you by Jesus, where Jesus is actually the agent and you're trying to curse someone with the power of Jesus. Right? Here, that's what's interesting about the Greek text here is it could be either way. I would say Rod though, either way, someone who truly worships Jesus as Lord is never going to say one of those sentences. Someone who truly worships Jesus as Lord is never going to try to curse the person of Jesus, nor is the person who worships Jesus as Lord going to try to get somebody else with the best like giving somebody Holy Spirit heebie jeebies. Like we don't do that. So either way, the way someone speaks about Jesus tells you an awful lot about the source behind whatever they're claiming. That's where he's getting at. No one what it says, no one who's speaking by the Spirit of God would say Jesus be cursed and no one could say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. No one is going to willingly submit themselves to the kingship of Christ if they're being ruled or being motivated by demonic activity or their own emotionalism. That's what this verse means. It's steeped in the middle of pagan idolatrous, very hedonistic culture. And it's this idolatrous hedonistic culture that is using emotionalism to justify the usage of spiritual gifts. Paul is correcting a church that has allowed too much worldly influence into their community, and he offers them a simple test, a confession of words to reveal the submission of the heart. I've got to say I've been in ministry for a while and I've watched different worship movements come up and fade and come up and fade. And there is absolutely an undertone within worship music of self-importance. I know our worship team sometimes in practice, we discuss the fact some songs, man, they hit on the radio really good. But when you listen to the lyrics, the object is them and not Jesus. The object is how you make me feel, not who you are as a person. I think that's what he's getting at in his day is we need to test by a confession of words what is the submission of the heart. So no one who is fully submitted to Jesus would say either Jesus, you be cursed or you be cursed by Jesus. And no one who is not truly a member of Christ's kingdom would say Jesus, you are my Lord, I submit to you. It's testing the heart. In many ways, this is much like the U.S. Secret Service. The U.S. Secret Service is the branch of our government that's in charge of counterfeiting, right? Their job is to tell the difference between the good bills and the bad bills. And for a while when I was a kid, I thought, oh, man, that would be cool. You can learn all about counterfeiting techniques and all the different ways people have tried to fake currency. But that's not actually how they train Secret Service agents. All they do is spend time with the real deal. All they do is day after day, they learn what the real deal looks like, smells like, tastes like, feels like. Because when you know what the real deal is, you don't have to learn all the million and one different ways to be inauthentic. You can just feel it, taste it, touch it, smell it. And you're going, no, this isn't real. That's what he's talking about here. That's why the whole Jesus is Lord and Jesus because he's talking about getting back to the authentic, real use of the gifts of the Spirit and not giving in to this pagan, ecstatic, emotionally driven movement that was coming out of the pagan temples of his day. To shorten it, this is the way I would say it. Christians ought to judge things of the Spirit by the content, not the contact that makes the claim. It's not the person that makes the claim. The content of the gift is the content in line with the Word of God. Because again, the Spirit who gives the gifts, the same Spirit who wrote the words. Your gift can't work outside of the Word itself. That's number one litmus test. If somebody claims to use a spiritual gift in a way that is in direct contract to the Word of God, pass, my bro. I'm out. You may be operating by a spirit, but it's not the spirit. So, woo. So does everybody understand that so far? All right, so here's the second point. The giver of the gifts is the Holy Spirit, verse four. There are different kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit. Question. Do you believe or does the Bible mention if it is a sin to know but not use your God-given gift? Okay, so I think what the questioner is saying is, is it sinful to be aware of my Holy Spirit-given gift and not operate it? Is that what? Okay, that's the intention of the question. I would say A, no. I don't believe the only verse in the Bible probably the one that we get from James where it says the person who knows what is right to do and doesn't do it. But that verse doesn't doesn't actually apply to spiritual gifts that applies to life overall. Mel, you're telling me I need to go back. How many? One, two. When we are actively walking in sin, can it affect our ability to use our spiritual gifts? Now, this is a really good question. When we are walking in sin, can it affect our ability to use our spiritual gifts? I'm going to have to say yes and no. And here's why. The source of the gift is the Holy Spirit, not you. You're the conduit. You're not the actual power on the line. So if the only thing that the Holy Spirit has available to do what he needs to do in this moment is a sinful human being, that he can choose to use you in spite of your sin to accomplish the greater mission that he has designed. Don't forget in the Old Testament, God spoke through an ass in order to correct a prophet. I think the same thing could still happen today. So, but let me say the reverse is this way. If the Holy Spirit works through you while you're in sin, do not get it twisted. The Holy Spirit does not approve of your sin ever. He may be working in spite of you, but he would do much better with you than in spite of you. And then what is witchcraft? Is the gifts that God gave us but are used wrong? So is the question, is using your Holy Spirit gift in a way contrary to the spirit witchcraft? I would argue you are incapable as a human being of using your Holy Spirit gift in a way contrary to the way he designs because he's the power and you're the wire. Trying to use it as witchcraft generally means rebellion against God from a demonic entity. So never been asked this question before. From my hip, I'm going to say no. I don't think a human being has the ability to wield the Holy Spirit's gift in a way that is contrary to the will of God himself. That'd be like saying I could give a message in tongues in and of myself or I could give a prophecy in and of myself even when the Holy Spirit didn't want me to have it. The Holy Spirit is not a genie. He's not a genie in a bottle. He's not a spiritual gift, Pez dispenser where you get to decide how and when to use the gift. And today I want strawberry, not pineapple. It's his gifts and we're merely the conduit that they work through. Did I miss any of them, Mel? Good to go. All right. Let's go. Let's flip back. OK, so we talked about the fact that there are different kinds of gifts, but it is the same. And it really cues in on verse four here. There are different kinds of gifts and we're going to get to the list when I get a little ender. That's a technical term ender closer to the end, but there are different kinds of terms, but it's the same spirit who distributes them. Christianity or Christian unity does not require Christian uniformity. I say this all the time. Unity does not require uniformity. We have to be unified in our submission to Christ. We have to be unified in our citizenship in his kingdom. We do not have to be unified in our theological perspectives. Just because I am teaching this sermon from the continuationist perspective does not mean you are not welcome in this church as a cessationist. Some of my best friends are cessationists, not continuationists. I got friends that speak in tongues and I got friends that think speaking in tongues is demonic. And guess what? We all love Jesus. This is not a salvific issue. So please do not think that just because you disagree with me theologically on this point that you are not welcome in this church. You are 100% welcome to worship with us because this is a non salvific issue. However, this does fall into one of those issues where we could on paper agree that two separate principles of equal biblical value, but you can't practice them both in reality. Right? I can't say that I believe spiritual gifts are for today and ask the Lord to use me and then also believe that they're not for today and ask the Lord to protect me. You can't actually walk both paths even though we could theologically debate both paths. So we do not influence his choices so we should probably stop judging the gifts in other people. Another question. How should believers react to the diversity of gifts between one another? That should be celebrated. The diversity of gifts is the grace of God. Because it's not you. And listen, let's just get this out in the open. You do not get to vote on the Holy Spirit's gifts that are given to you. God does not take your opinion into consideration. You're just not, and I don't mean that in a bad way. You're not that important. The mission of Christ, the kingdom of Christ, the souls of humanity. That's what we're playing on the table for. We're not playing for you to be famous for 60 years. Right? 60 years is a drop in the bucket. We just recently lost John MacArthur. Whether you like him or not like him, he was a titan of a man who defended biblical doctrine. And I really don't agree with all his points. But he is a loss to the kingdom of God. He did not ask for the gifts that he was given. I think he used them well. Right? I didn't ask for the gifts that I was given. I tried to use them well. So how should believers react to the diversity of gifts between one another? We should celebrate them. Not be jealous. Not be petty. Not be individualistic. Because the gifts are not about you and they're not for you. They're merely going through you for the church. Next, the function of the gift is for service. Verse 5. There are different kinds of service but the same Lord. Here's what you need to see. Verse 4, different kinds of spirit but the same spirit that distributes them. Different kinds of service. The gifts are for service. They are not for you or me or anybody up here. Your spiritual gifts are not to make you famous. Your spiritual gifts are not to make you money. Your spiritual gifts are not to give you an authority position that outweighs your character. I'm going to give you a quote from Pastor Rick. Possibly the most godly man I've ever met. Those of you who were here on my first Sunday, you met him in person. He was the big Canadian that I ran across the room to fall into his chest and cry. Pastor Rick taught me one of my first lessons in ministry. Never let your gift take you where your character can't keep you. And that has been one of the solid gold foundations that has guided me over 20 years of ministry. Never let your gift take you where your character won't keep you. I also need to say that there are all different types of spiritual gifts. And there are also different types of earthly talents and skills. Right? Before I became a preacher, I was a worship leader. I can play most of the instruments that are up here on this stage. Not necessarily as good as all the people up here. But I can sit down and make a noise with them. That's not a spiritual gift. I went to school and I learned music theory. I played in band. I sang in choir. That's not a spiritual gift. My ability to play guitar, you know, those of you who are part of our CR family, Melanie leads worship for our CR family on Monday nights. I go and I'm her guitarist. I play as her accompanist. My ability to play guitar is not a spiritual gift. It's an earthly talent. It's a talent that I worked at. It's a talent that I practiced. It's a talent that I strive to get good at. That's not a spiritual gift. Why? Because the spirit of God was not the source of it. Now, if you sit me down in front of an instrument that I have never seen, never heard, and all of a sudden I'm shredding it up, whoo! That's a spiritual gift. But I think a lot of times in church, we confuse our natural skills and talents with spiritual gifts. And then we try to make something that we worked hard at a whole lot more spiritual than it really is. This entire worship team up here is amazingly skilled. But their earthly skills and talents as musicians are not their spiritual gifts. They're skills and talents. Now, because we're all part of the same body, we should absolutely bring our gifts and our abilities and our skills and our talents to bear for the work and the mission of the church. But don't get it twisted. Megan's voice is not a spiritual gift. It's a part of her body. She uses it as an act of worship. She uses it as a way to get her body to work. She uses it as an act of worship. And praise God for that. But when you practice a skill, you know, all the years you've practiced playing drums and you've gotten really good at it, all the skill, the time, that sweat equity, you shouldn't take away someone's stewardship from working their gifts just because they choose to use it in the church. All the musicians you see, they put in time, they put in effort, they put in work, they put in practice. Let's not ruin their stewardship by just calling it a spiritual gift. Let's honor it for what it is. They're sacrificing their time, their skills, their abilities, but the source is themselves, not the spirit. So verse 5, the function of the gifts is for service. And then we get to verse 6. The power of the gifts come from the same God. Now, this one's going to hit different because we don't live in a pagan culture. So check this. Verse 6. There are different kinds of working, but in all of them, there are different kinds of work. There are different kinds of working, but in all of them, and in everyone, is the same God at work. That same God is the most important part of this verse. And it doesn't really hit for us because we live in a culture where most of us grew up monotheistic. We don't live in a culture where half a block down the street is the temple to Artemis, and two blocks over is the temple to Athena, and the temple to Zeus and Poseidon and Hermes and all those other, Mars. We don't live there. Kind of. I would argue our culture has a whole lot of pagan idols, but I don't have time to delve into that now. What he means here is that you can't call your spiritual gift something that doesn't come from the spirit of God himself. There's only one God that gives these gifts, and it's not Poseidon, and it's not Zeus, and it's not Hermes, and it's not Athena. It is the third member of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit of God, and he is the only one that can give spiritual gifts. Why is that important? For us, it's less valuable, but for the first century Corinthian church, they would be comparing, well, Athena gives me the same gift. Zeus gives me the ability to prophesy. Hermes gives me the ability to interpret dreams. See, we don't do that today, but they did then, and that's why this point that only the Holy Spirit of God, the third member of the Trinity, is capable of giving gifts. Why is that important? So when someone comes up to me and claims through a demonic entity that I have a power that rivals my spiritual gift, yeah, bro, pass. That's the only modern-day equivalent. The only modern-day equivalent would be someone who claims like a medium, right? Someone who's a medium, who claims to be able to either speak to the dead, either to speak to spirits, claims to be able to foretell knowledge through any other means that's not the Holy Spirit. That's what he would be doing in this verse. He's claiming that all of those other prophets, of all of those other gods and goddesses and pagan idols that are mute and can't speak, they cannot do what our God's gifts can do. There are different kinds of working, but in them, in every one, it is the same God at work. And then verse seven, the focus of the gifts is the church, not the individual. This one we don't get right very much. Look at this. Question. What are your thoughts on horoscopes? I find them to be hilariously silly, and here's why. And it's probably not the answer you're expecting. The stars were given to us by God for a purpose. They are to communicate something very specific. If you go all the way back to the book of Genesis and you look at creation, why did God create the celestial bodies? The marking of time. Stars, the moon, sun, all of that was given to us to teach us something. It was given to us to teach the passage of time. It was not given to us to try to read into some sort of heebie-jeebie future predicting celestial model. So I'm not in the camp that says the stars are just to be looked at because the Bible says they are to teach us something. They're not supposed to teach you who to date. They're not supposed to teach you what job to take. That's still, I mean, again, reading the stars and claiming that you can get anything from them other than the passage of time is being led by a mute idol. An idol who can't tell you what you're claiming it tells you. It's the same exact thing. In fact, thank you for that question. It's probably a dead ringer example of claiming a mute idol is teaching you something. The stars are there to teach us about the passage of time. They're not there to teach us who to marry or what shoes to wear or what job to take. Does God give all his children multiple spiritual gifts? Interesting question. I have to say, I don't know. And that's for the fact that the Bible describes that the spirit of God gives the gifts. Although I have to say this questioner is assuming something. So whoever asked the question, I love you. But I'm going to push you just a little bit. The question assumes something that I think should be questioned. And that is if you have a single spiritual gift at a single moment, whatever it is, right? Let's just take speaking in tongues because everybody wants me to get there eventually. Just because God gave you the spiritual gift of speaking in tongues in this one moment at this one time, many people will assume that that means you have to have that gift for the rest of your life. But the Bible doesn't actually say that. That's an assumption. Some people think of spiritual gifts as here. I carry a pen all the time. This pen is good for writing stuff. That's what we do with pens, right? So you would assume if God gave me the Holy Spirit of pen, right? The Holy Spirit gift of having a pen. That means I can write all the time. But what if he only needed me to write at the moment that he gave me the pen? And now I'm carrying around a spiritual gift that I have had. But you assume that just because you have had it at one point, you have it all the time. Now there are certain gifts that get used many times. Now this particular pen happens to have a secondary feature. I have a titanium glass breaker in it. What if God needed this gift instead of the bottom one? Does he not have the power? Instead of thinking of spiritual gifts like one-off tools, how about you think of spiritual gift like a Leatherman? How about here's my spiritual gifts. And when God needs me to cut something open, there we go. I've got a small pocket knife. If God doesn't need me to cut something open, he needs me to address a Phillips head screwdriver. Guess what? I have that gift too. He needs me to open it up. I need a pair of scissors because we've got to cut something down. I have that gift too. Why? Because I didn't make this. The Holy Spirit did. And if he needs me to use a specific gift at a specific time, I think the Bible says he's pretty much omnipotent and all-powerful. And he could give me access to any gift that he needed in the moment that he so chose. So I don't view spiritual gifts as individual tools. Why? Because that would claim that I had the power to manipulate them anytime I wanted. And I don't think that that's biblical. Now, when we get into speaking in tongues, we'll have to get there. But I would love the opinion that if the Holy Spirit lives within you as a Christian, you have the full Leatherman of spiritual gifts in your pocket or in your purse. The question is, A, is God going to give you instruction to pull that gift out? And are you going to follow? Are you ready to be used, to use a gift? Or do you have the whole Leatherman in your purse or in your back pocket? Or if you're a cessationist, you left the Leatherman at home because you don't believe that the Leatherman applies today. So, yeah, I love the question, but I question the assumption that just because I was given... And here's another example in my life. I would argue today as I stand before you, there is evidence in my life that I have a Holy Spirit gifted teaching. I would also argue, and my wife has been there for 20 years, I 100% did not teach like this 20 years ago. Something happened in me as I developed my education, which is stewardship, not spiritual gift. All the degrees that I've been able to earn, not spiritual gift, stewardship. But something happened as I began to go to school. And I have this unique and I think totally spirit born ability. I can recall almost anything I've ever read when I need it. And I've never been able to do that. Guys, I got to tell other people, literally, Tyler, are you in the room? No? I literally had to tell Tyler when I asked you where I put my wallet, I put it right here. Before I walked up on stage. I'll go home, put my keys down and have to ask everyone in the family where I put my keys down. Because my ADHD puts it down and goes out of the way, keys no longer matter. And then I have to get in the car and I go, keys matter. But yet when one of you emails me and asks me a question, I can remember the color of the book cover, the author, and sometimes the section of the book that that answer comes from. That's not me. I can't do that. So I would submit that's my evidence for there's a difference between natural talents and learned abilities and the Holy Spirit gifting. But I didn't have that gift 20 years ago. So does that mean that I developed a spiritual gift? I can't develop spiritual gifts. He's the source and I'm the conduit. Well, that means the Holy Spirit is using me in a way now that he didn't use me in 20 years ago. And I think that's OK because he's in charge and I'm not. All right, going back, Mel, you may have to flag me down because as I look up, I don't always see your alerts coming in. So verse seven, to each one of you, manifestation of the Spirit is given for the common good. Here's a big one. Your spiritual gifts are not about you and nor are they for you. They're merely used in you. Let me say that again. Your spiritual gifts are not about you. They are not given for you. They are merely used through you. You are the conduit question. When praying about using my gift, how would you determine the best way to differentiate from God's answer, our own human answer and the answer to the Holy Spirit? That's a fantastic answer. And the answer Satan uses to distract us. Fantastic question. Double browning points to whoever asked this. The first thing is not quickly. OK, so what this person is saying is, and if I could paraphrase the question, this person is saying, I feel like I know what my spirit gift is, that the Holy Spirit has given me a gift. How do I determine best to differentiate between is it God? Is it me? Is it Satan? So here's the first thing. Does it match the word of God? If it's Satan, it's probably not going to match the word of God. Doesn't mean he can't use the word. So you got to be careful. Can't rule it all the way out. Satan used the word to tempt Jesus. So don't think just because it matches the word, it can't be Satan. I'm just going to say it's unlikely considering the purpose of a spiritual gift is to grow the church. And that is not something Satan would want. So first, does it match the word? Second, are there people in your life whose spiritual wisdom and counsel exceed yours that you would willingly receive correction from? Go ask them. Is there because sometimes I'll say to somebody, you know what? The spirit of God in me, Dan, the spirit of God in me agrees or affirms the spirit of God in you. Because if both of us have the same spirit, he can't be telling us contradictory things because God can't lie. So the first thing I would say is how do I differentiate? First, you go to the word. Is there anything in the word that speaks to my current situation? Second, you go to counsel. And I don't just mean your bestie. Don't just ask the person who's on your team, who's on your squad, who wants you to feel good about being spiritual. No, I want you to ask the person who loves you enough to tell you the truth. Even if the truth hurts. Bro, I don't think that's your spiritual gift at all because of this, this, this, this, this. That's the friend you need. If you don't have one of those friends, you got to go find one because you're missing another major litmus test of how do I check it? The third thing would be prayer, time. And if you have more than one person you can receive Godly counsel from, you got to do that. Here's why. In order to determine, and this is a sidebar, but in order to determine whether something comes from God, not you, you have to use a test that's outside of you. Like, for instance, when we were trying to explore whether God was calling us and calling my family to come here three and a half years ago, I said, God, you have to do something so outside of me that I'm not in control of that we'll know you're moving the spotlight around to where we are. God did that in spades. One of the things Melanie said was, you know, I want God to tell us where to go. We don't have to apply for a job anymore. And I'm like, OK, guy I've never met town I've never been in offers us a job I've never heard of until Bill Crook showed up in my inbox that day. And there was a guy I've never met in a town I've never been in. And then as I'm driving here on the interview and I'm driving up, it's like five o'clock in the morning, I had to leave crazy early. I'm praying and I'm like, God, I still don't know for sure that this is you. But I have to stand in front of a church and know that you sent me God. You got to give me more than the one email. You got to give me something else. And then my daughter Emily wakes up that morning having a prophetic dream that we got that I got a new job. So those two things together. Heck, yeah. I walked right in the interview room and I think it was Tom Smith. He's one of our deacons. And he said, I got to ask your first question. Why would you want to leave your church? And I said, I really don't want to leave my church. But this I prayed and this thing happened. I prayed and this thing happened. And both of those are outside of my control. So at this point, I believe God wants me to be here. And the third and final thing happened is y'all got to agree. And when all three of those things happen that are outside of my ability to control, now I know that God has spoken. But that's not a quick process. That's not a Burger King drive through, have it your way in 30 seconds. I mean, Megan, how long did that take? Bill, from the first time you sent me the email to the time I was sitting in front of the, that was at least like what? Eight weeks? At least eight weeks, maybe 12. To for sure know the will of God. So if you're asking how can I know in 30 seconds, you probably can't. Unless you're with somebody who's prophetic. All right. Next question. Does every follower of Christ receive spiritual gifts? I will say every follower of Christ is capable of receiving spiritual gifts because every follower of Christ is already in duet with the Holy Spirit. Which means you have the power within you. Again, I have to say the Holy Spirit is the chooser of the giftings. Right? So if you are a Christian, which means you are justified, you are sanctified, you are in duet with the Holy Spirit, you are adopted as a child of God, all of those things. Then yes, you have the full power of the Holy Spirit Leatherman. And yes, I'm a Leatherman, not a Gerber guy. Sorry. I make a stand. I take a stand on it. I'm a Leatherman guy. You have the entire Holy Spirit Leatherman within you. That doesn't mean the Holy Spirit makes you access it at all times. Nor does it mean that you might not be seeking. God, how can you use me? The Holy Spirit indwells every single Christian. That doesn't mean every single Christian says, God, I'm ready to serve you. There is an attitude of submission that comes there. So for the common good, not for the church. Hopefully I've waxed that one enough. Now, all right, here we go. Now let's get to the list. So I'm going to read the whole passage. I already read the passage. Let's not do that. We got time. So first thing I need to understand about the list. This is not the only list of spiritual gifts in the Holy Spirit. This is the only list of spiritual gifts in the Bible. This is the text that I've chosen for this series because it's the longest treatment in one section of the issue. But it is not. So those of you who like your notes, this is also in the notes in the app. Those of you who are going to email it to yourself later. There are three lists of Holy Spirit giftings in the Bible. The first is in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verses 8 through 11. We're about to read through that together. The second list is in Romans chapter 12, verses 6 through 8. Lists a completely different list of Holy Spirit gifts. And the third is in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11. Here's what I think is super cool about that. Those three lists are different. They're not exhaustive. So even if you put all three of those lists together, Vic, I don't know that you could say these are the only gifts the Holy Spirit gives. He's given us three different lists that list three different sets. I'm not comfortable saying these are the only things the Holy Spirit can do. I am comfortable saying these are the things he's told us specifically he's given to other believers. Does that make sense? The Holy Spirit needs a brand new spiritual gift. I mean, he's literally the God who created everything. He hovered over the waters at creation. He empowered Christ to do miracles. Holy Spirit can do what he wants. Sometimes the problem is we lack the submission. So these are not the only gifts, but Mel, did you put each of these definitions on the slide? No, OK, then I'm just going to read them slowly. So now I'm going to read through each of these gifts and try to talk through what they look like on a practical sense. And then Melanie is going to wave her phone at me if I miss a question. So here we go. First, word of wisdom. Here's my definition. And this is what it is. The best way I could define it. A spirit born ability to speak insight or the application of knowledge into a situation. So wisdom in Greek literally is Sophia. That's the word wisdom in Greek. And Sophia doesn't just mean understanding and knowledge. Wisdom is the application of what you understand into a given situation. So now when we say a word of wisdom, the first thing you have to understand is it must be a spirit born ability. It is not your natural intelligence applying your theological knowledge or your apologetic knowledge to a given situation. That's just use of wisdom. That's just use of understanding. When we're claiming that it is a spirit born gift, then that means the application of the wisdom or the insight must come from the Holy Spirit, not from something you already learned. And that's where we take the difference between talents and spiritual gifts. When I apply something I learned, right? Something I learned in school. Something you learned in life. Learning how to use a turn signal would be a really good one for a lot of people in Delaware. That's not a spirit born ability. Again, these are gifts of the spirit. He's the source. We're the conduit. So word of wisdom is a spirit born ability to speak insight or the application of knowledge into a situation. Okay, the second gift mentioned word of knowledge. This is very similar but slightly different. This is a spirit born ability to speak knowledge or understanding. So wisdom is the application of knowledge. This one is speaking knowledge. Can you insert knowledge that you never learned? Right? Can you tell someone something that you never learned? Then that would be from the Spirit of God. And a lot of times this could be used, trying to think of a really interesting example. How about, okay, I always use me. How about I lose my keys and I'm praying about it and I'm praying about it. I'm like, oh my gosh, I'm going to be late. I've got to be at church. If I don't show up, Jim's got to preach. And so I call Jesse. I'm like, Jesse, I need you to pray for me right now. Where are my keys? And Jesse says, Bill, I know exactly where they are. And without knowing where I left my keys, the Holy Spirit tells him to tell me exactly where to go. That's word of knowledge. He just shared something with me that in his earthly human brain, he could not have known and it was right. If he just says, did you check your sock drawer? That's probably not the Holy Spirit. That's just Jesse being Jesse. Does that make sense? So again, it must be a spirit born ability. Number three, the gift of faith. This is a spirit born faith that exceeds the trust all believers have in Christ. I need to say that again. Spirit born faith and it must exceed the saving faith that all other believers have. Why? Because everybody places their faith in Jesus to get saved. And Holy Spirit gifts are only given to those who are already inside the kingdom. So whatever the gift of faith is, and that word faith means to trust, you can have faith in something, but you trust it when you stand on it. Right? Do you trust the ladder is going to hold your weight? That's usually a big question for me. I got to look at the frame of it. Right? You could say you trust the ladder, but when you climb all the way up it, then you're actually trusting it. So the gift of faith is a spirit born faith that exceeds the trust all believers have in Christ. Possibly the ability to hold to faith in the most trying or dire of circumstances. Remember, this is the first century church. They're still being killed. We're being thrown to lions. Our faith is illegal across the Roman Empire. There are times where you need not just faith in Jesus, you need some faithy faith. You need like faith 2.0, faith squared. That's what this gift is. And it is from the spirit of God, not from your own emotionalism. Right? You can't just manufacture the gift of faith in yourself because if you're the source, then it's not a spirit born gift. Does that make sense? All right. Number three, gift of healing. This is a spirit born ability to bring healing, restoration or cure either to physical or spiritual weakness. Now, you guys remember when we looked at James and we saw the two different words for sick. One was weak and one was weary. This word healing can be applied to either one of those. So I would say that to answer the question before it's asked, do I believe the gift of healing takes place today? Absolutely. 100% it can. And I believe it does. Do I believe that the gift of healing is restricted to only physical healing? No, I do not. Because there are clear spiritual examples like James where the prayer of the elders heals those who are sick. And the prayer of the elders heals those who are weary, not just those who are weak. So I do not believe the gift of healing is required to be only physical. However, I'm not going to rule out the fact that the gift of healing can be physical. And it's right now that I forgot I was supposed to bring a book to church that I left at home. But one of the books that Dr. Doug made me purchase in one of my classes is a two volume book by a guy named Craig Keener. And he is cataloging miracles that have happened in modern day, miracles that defy any naturalistic explanation that have happened like in the last 100 years all the way around the world. It is super cool reading. He had an entire class on miracles and defending miracles. And he had us purchase these two books. What was really funny is Rob, when I was on a video call one time with a pastor friend of mine who's Pentecostal, of course, he knows I work at a Baptist church and he sees the two Keener books behind me. And he goes, hey, Bill, I know Craig Keener is a Pentecostal theologian. He went, hey, Bill, why you got those Keener books behind you? And I was like, because they were assigned to me for my one of my master's classes on miracles. And he goes, huh, I never thought I'd see those in a Baptist pastor's office. So, yes, I do believe the gift of healing operates today. I do believe that it can be physical healing. But I do not believe that we should restrict the definition to solely physical healing when the New Testament does give examples of spiritual healing. Am I still good to keep going, Melanie? All right. I'm running out of time. Here we go. Working of miracles, a spirit born ability to work miracles. And I'm sorry, Paul doesn't say anything beyond that. So I'm going to give you a definition of miracle. A working of God for his people and purposes that exceeds any natural explanation. Spirit born ability to do something that exceeds all natural explanation from God for God's people. Don't take that away. Prophecy, a spirit born ability to speak and or apply God's word to other people, either in the near or the distant future. People often mistake the word prophecy for being future related only. That's false. Even in the Old Testament, you saw prophets talk about what's happening right now. You are disobeying right now. Turn your ways or else. That wasn't in the future. Even Jeremiah, when he told the children of Israel and they're pulled away into captivity, bros, you're going to be there for 70 years. Lock it in. Marry your sons, marry your daughters, plant gardens, do good for the city. That's what's happening right now. So prophecy does not need to be only for telling the thus saith the Lord in the future. It can be for God's people, the near or distant future. However, I want to make a difference between what an Old Testament prophet is, what a New Testament prophet is and the gift of prophecy, because I see this wrong a lot. Old Testament prophet, the only person in all of God's people on whom God's spirit rested. We don't have that today because thankfully, Acts chapter two Pentecost, everybody gets the Holy Spirit. You get the Holy Spirit, you get the Holy Spirit, you get the Holy Spirit, you get the Holy Spirit. So Old Testament prophet is out because now we all have the Holy Spirit. However, New Testament prophet mentioned in Ephesians chapter four, the New Testament prophet is in a fivefold list of people. The pastor, the evangelist, the prophet, the teacher, the apostle. That's a five man group, a team in order to build the church. So the New Testament prophet can't be the same as the Old Testament prophet because everybody has the Holy Spirit and he's now a man of a five member team. And then the gift of prophecy is any believer filled with the Holy Spirit moved under the power of the Holy Spirit. It's not an office. It's a gift. Just because you have been used in the gift of prophecy does not justify you in saying you have the office of a prophet. Just like you can call your friend and encourage them in a difficult time. Doesn't make you a pastor. It just means you shepherded your friend. If the verb shepherding doesn't automatically the title of pastor, then the verb prophecy does not automatically imbue the title of prophet. Prophet would have to be a calling by Jesus in Ephesians four for the purpose of the church. So don't get it twisted. There are plenty of people who God gives them the gift of prophecy. They start calling themselves a prophet. Bro, I can't go with you there. I don't think that's biblical. Now, if you have a calling on your life from God that's been evidenced by those who love you and could correct you, then maybe we could go there. Distinguishing of spirits. The spirit born ability to determine between a godly and demonic source. That would be super necessary for first century Corinth when there were demonic temples right down the street. So that's what distinguishing of spirits means. And then speaking in tongues, I know everybody wants me to get here. The spirit born ability to speak an unlearned language. Hey, Jim, can you speak Hungarian? Lisa, is he telling the truth? Do you like yell at y'all in Hungarian at home to sweep the floors? No. So, Jim, here's my example. If you immediately stood up right now and were able to speak perfect Hungarian, that's the gift of speaking in tongues. The word tongues does not refer to the muscle inside your face. It refers to the word tongue was used to explain languages because tongue is the muscle of language. So the gift of speaking in tongues is a spirit born ability to speak an unlearned language. If you went to school to learn how to speak a foreign language, if you grew up in a bilingual household where you can speak more than one language, and those of you who are asking, no, sarcasm does not count. That's the gift of speaking in tongues. The spirit born ability to speak an unlearned language. Here's why that's super important. And question. Where does the intelligible tongues come from? I assume you're speaking about when you hear someone speak in tongues and you don't understand it. Is that the intention? So two thoughts. And let's divide here. Since I don't know how to speak Hungarian, if Jim stood up right now and started speaking Hungarian, that would be rather unintelligible to me. However, and here's where those of you who grew up Pentecostal, I'm going to sting you a little bit. I have heard, because my wife grew up Pentecostal. I grew up Baptist, but worked in the Pentecostal church. So we refer to ourselves as Bathtecostal. So I've been in the super deep, everybody speaks in tongues, clucking like duck with the flags waving church. And I've been in the super non-charismatic, traditional Baptist with a pipe organ church. There are some people who speak in tongues who all they do is repeat the same four syllables. Bro, can you please just shut up? That's not a language. That's a babble. However, there are other people who speak in tongues. And there's, even though I don't know the language, right, there's sentence structure, syntax, inflection. You can almost hear paragraphs. You can almost hear emotionality within the words. That's a language. So if I could interpret the question, the questioner is asking about unintelligible. I take unintelligible to be the four or five syllable babbida babbida babbida babbida babbida babbida. That's not speaking in tongues. You start speaking an entire language, even if I don't understand it. Right? And keep in mind, speaking in tongues doesn't mean languages that are alive on Earth today. Do you know the number of languages that have become extinct just in the time humanity has been around? Speaking in tongues, you could be speaking ancient Akkadian for all I know. In fact, interesting story. I know I'm running out of time, but I'm doing anyway because it's my pulpit. My mentor, Pastor Rick, was at a church service one time. And he told me this story firsthand. He saw it. He's in a church service and a person get ups, stands up to give a message in tongues. And the person speaks very clearly, delivers the message. No one in the room understands it. And so the pastor, my job would be to stand up here and go, OK, if that's biblical, then what's also biblical is someone's supposed to be here to translate it. And a lot of times what I see is when the translator doesn't show up, we look bad at the guy who spoke in tongues when the reality is the other person could just be too afraid. So don't knock the person who gave the message in tongues when this person, the translator, is supposed to stand up. Well, a little girl stands up in the back, not little, she's in college, but stands up in the back and she says, I know what he said. And he said, well, sister, come up here and use your spirit given gift. The woman's not a Christian. She goes, I don't know what a spirit given gift is, but I'm a master's student. And that was ancient Akkadian. I can tell you what he said. Bet you that young lady got saved pretty darn quick because she knew her education was that language is dead. So the spirit born gift of speaking in tongues is speaking in unlearned language. The second gift interpretation of tongues is interpreting an unlearned language. So in my story, that young lady did not use the gift of tongues. She used her education. Next question. Is there a private versus public tongues? Great question. Thank you. Whoever asked it. I am. I will admit there's two camps here. One person's one camp is there's only the public gift of tongues. If you use it, it must be translated. The other camp is there is a difference between the public in the church use gift of the use of tongues and the private for personal use gift of tongues. I'm in the second camp. And here's why Paul says quite frequently, I pray in tongues more than all of you. But he doesn't in the same hand rent mentioned that it's always translated. He seems to be using that text in the context of his personal relationship with God. He seems to be saying that that there is a gift of the use of spring in a language that I don't understand. And here's why. If I can pray in a language that I don't understand or Jim can pray in Hungarian, then his heart can speak directly to God and bypass the brain mouth filter. That would be a really powerful way to pray. And the Holy Spirit, the Bible says that when we are unable to pray, the Holy Spirit uses groans and utterances, unintelligible sounds to pray for us. So, yes, I am in the camp. I would absolutely agree. There is both a public and a private use of the gift of tongues. I will admit to you that that's a debated issue. And so if you would prefer to disagree with me on that, let me know on the connect card. We can argue about it. But that's that's my stance is I think there are both gifts. However, both gifts are using unlearned language. That's not debatable. It is an unlearned language. And then finally, the last one he chooses here, the interpretation of tongues is a spirit born ability to translate an unlearned language. Unlike the young lady who went to college for Acadian, if Jim stood up and spoke Hungarian and somebody else in this room who doesn't know Hungarian stood up and translated it. That's what that gift is. Why do we use that? Because you have to remember when he's writing this, there's no New Testament yet. The gift of speaking in tongues plus the interpretation of tongues equals direct revelation from God. No one person. Now, you cannot give the gift, give the message in tongues and the interpretation, because then that defeats the entire purpose of God proving he's speaking to his people. You could be just babbling and then telling everybody what you think is important. That's also why I just have you ever been in one of those Pentecostal churches where it's just about the same time in every service? Sister so and so stands up and gives a message in tongues and then sister so and so on the other side stands up and translated the first time you see it. It looks really cool. And then it happens for six weeks in a row and you go in. I don't know that sister and sister didn't just get donuts before church and decide to issue their own correction to the church. That's why it's important to keep things separated. So I know I ran long. If you have other questions you can answer. Ask me on your connect card. I will respond. Let me give you the takeaway. Usher's get ready. Worship team get ready. Baptismal candidates all get ready. We'll bring this in for a landing. Here's your takeaway. The Holy Spirit chooses and distributes supernatural gifts to individual Christians for the singular purpose of serving in the Lord's Church. We are not to judge or be jealous of the gifts of the Spirit decides to give to other believers. He is the one who gives the gifts. We are the conduit that uses them. The church is the focus. If you have other questions about spiritual gifts, whether you are watching online or you're here in the room, you can use the ask form because those will come to me. You can also use your connect card and those will come to me.