My primary role here at Catalyst is to be the preacher and the teacher of God's Word. So if you are joining us for the first time, whether you are here in the Wilmington campus or you are becoming part of our online family, thank you for worshiping with us. We are in the middle of a teaching series entitled Gifted, as you saw by the video, and we are exploring what the Bible says about the gifts of the Spirit. I also need to point out that this morning's sermon is going to be a little bit different from the typical sermon you would have at church because you are going to be able to ask and get your questions answered in real time, even if you are watching us online. So those of you who are my Catalyst veterans and you already have the Catalyst app, please pull out your Catalyst app and you will notice at the very top are the announcements. We'll go through those later in the service. But if you scroll down to the third row, right next to where it says join the online community, there's a button that says Q&A. If you press that button, even if you are joining us online, our online chat hosts are going to drop you a link that you can click and it will open that form in your web browser, either on your phone, tablet, PC, whatever you are joining us with this morning. You can open this same form in a web browser on any web capable device and you will be able to ask your questions in real time while we are studying. We have been in the book of 1 Corinthians and Paul's main section on the gifts of the Holy Spirit is chapters 12, 13, and 14. We are kind of bringing this in for not for a full landing, but we're bringing it in a little closer. And today we are in 1 Corinthians chapter 14 verses 20 to 25. So while you go there, let me give you the key thought that's holding all of these things together. God gives supernatural gifts to his people for the building of his church and that is probably, in fact, Dino, can I have it one more time? God gives supernatural gifts, so the gifts of the Holy Spirit are just that. They are supernatural, not natural. They are for his people, meaning you cannot have a Holy Spirit born gift if you are not a Holy Spirit born person, right? So they are for his people and their purpose is for the building of his church. God does not give spiritual gifts for us to be famous. He does not give spiritual gifts for us to be well known or to be wealthy or to be well respected. None of these things. The only purpose of spiritual gifts is for the building of his body, which is the church. Now this morning, hopefully this is going to be pretty easy. Those of you who know me are going to be super happy when I say this. Our text for this morning's sermon is only five verses. Nobody's going to amen that. Oh, come on, Ray. I thought that was it. That was the moment where they're like, oh my gosh, the preacher's finally going to run short today. Well, hopefully not, but I want to read verses 20 through 25 and then I want to go back and cut them up. So let me just turn the auto off here on my phone. So as you ask your questions, they will be sent both to Miss Donna in the back and my wife, who is actually at home, but she's got her phone and they will be feeding your questions up here to me on my cell phone. So let's take a look at 1st Corinthians chapter 14, starting in verse 20. Brothers, do not be children in your thinking. Be infants in evil, but in your thinking, be mature. Remember in the law, it is written by people of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners. I will speak to this people and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord. Thus tongues are a sign not for believers, but for unbelievers. While prophecy is a sign not for unbelievers, but for believers. Therefore, the whole church comes together, or excuse me, if therefore the whole church comes together and all speak in tongues and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are out of your minds? But if they all prophesy and an unbeliever or an outsider enters, he is convicted by all and he is called to account by all. The secrets of his heart are disclosed and so falling on his face, he will worship God and declare that God is really among you. And I just want to just take that much because even though it's five verses, there's a lot. So let's just quickly go back and let's just put ourselves in the right frame of mind. So what is the name of the city that Paul wrote this letter to? Corinth, right? And what is the nickname that I have given to the first century city of Corinth? Sin City. It is the first century Sin City. And why is it the first century Sin City? Because Corinth exists on a small bit of land, for those who are here in the Wilmington campus, if the center aisle that is between the right and left sections of this room were land and both of the chair sections were water, Corinth would be right about where Mike is sitting, right there in the middle. And the sailors would come, they would cross this body of water, they would land kind of where Aaron's at, they would unload their cargo. Aaron and his mighty band of pirates would get off their ship, would start going across land and they would stop at Corinth because the cargo would go on to the other half, get loaded on another boat and then continue to go this way. And so Corinth is located right in the middle of this small isthmus of land and it's exactly what all the sailors spend their money on when they get off a boat. So all those stuff you think about, that's what Corinth was. It was a deeply wealthy and also wicked city. The other thing I need you to remember is that this letter is not a letter of teaching, it is the letter of correction. So when we read Paul's words, we need to not read them as, oh well, Paul is just delivering instruction and Barry, we can read his instruction for us the same way that he instructed the first century. That would be a bad study method. For those of you like your big boy words, that's called hermeneutics. The way we study scripture. You cannot pick up my cell phone right now and bring out my text thread where Jim and I experienced texts together and all of a sudden read them as if they were to you. Number one, I think Jim and I would both get in a lot of trouble if anybody else read our texts or our Instagram reels that we send to each other, right? Because all of that communication takes place within this relationship. It's the same thing when we come to scripture. The communication that Paul wrote in 1st Corinthians was from him to the first century sinful Corinthian audience. Don't make the mistake of just automatically replacing yourself as the audience because you are very likely to misread the text and if we misread it, then we misapply it and then we get way off kilter somewhere that scripture never intended us to go. So Sin City, letter of correction, and what have we already learned? In 12, we found out that they were misusing spiritual gifts. They were prioritizing certain gifts over other gifts. In 13, we learned that they were being very unloving. That spiritual gifts are designed to be done through love for the body of Christ, not through inequality to make some people famous and other people jealous. Then we get to 14, and I just think it's amazing. 1st Corinthians chapter 13, the love chapter, love is patient, love is kind, is smack dab in the middle of an entire lesson on spiritual gifts. That's got to be one of the biggest rebukes to the first century Corinthian church. So then we reach here in 1st Corinthians chapter 14, and the first point that I believe Paul is making here out of verse 20 is that understanding spiritual gifts requires maturity. Understanding spiritual gifts requires maturity. So let's take a look at just verse 20. Brothers, your translation may also say brothers and sisters, right? That word there is Adelphoi. That's the plural of Adelphos and it basically means everybody, right? Everybody say that with me. Everybody. That's a giant theological term, everybody. And it means all people who believe in Jesus, all believers, all Christians, all Jesus followers, all everybody in the Jesus gang. That's what that word means. Which means whatever Paul is about to teach here applies to everyone. It does apply to us. The Bible was written for us, the Bible was written for us, though it was not written to us. It's written for us to learn and to be guided by the correction he gives. But the first thing we need to see is he opens this sentence, brothers, and then he says, do not be children in your thinking, or another translation, stop thinking like children. Here's the first thing you need to understand. Number one, since we understand that spiritual gifts are for the unity of the church, that means spiritual gifts are available to all Christians. Also means spiritual gifts are not available to non-Christians. Does that make sense? If you are not a Christian, then you are not indwelt with the Holy Spirit of God. You do not have access to the power from which spiritual gifts derive. I'm not like putting anybody down. I'm not trying to make second-class spiritual citizens. I'm trying to say if you have a flashlight and no batteries, you've got no light light when the light goes out. If you have a Christian who is not filled with the Holy Spirit, you don't have a Christian. You might have somebody who likes Jesus. You might have somebody who thinks Jesus was a good moral teacher. You might have somebody who thinks Jesus was even a prophet sent by God. That's Nicodemus in John chapter 3, right? We know you are sent from God, but Nicodemus wasn't saved yet. There comes a moment where we place our full trust in will. That's when you join this Adelphos Adelphoi gang. Stop thinking like children. Do not be like children in your thinking. And then he says, be infants in evil, but in your thinking, be mature or be adults. Here's what I like about this. Paul is not saying that spiritual gifts require the disconnection of the brain. He does not trying to say that having a spiritual gift is like having some sort of Holy Spirit born lobotomy where you're no longer allowed to think and you just need to feel your way through it. I know that happens in certain Christian circles, maybe even certain denominations where feelings and we get up into the feels and all of a sudden the feels take over and we forget that the same spirit who gives the gifts is the spirit who wrote the words, right? And if he can't lie, if the Holy Spirit is also God, third member of the Trinity, the Godhead, and the Holy Spirit can't lie, then that means he can't use a spiritual gift in a manner contradictory to the word he has revealed. Furthermore, you shouldn't have a spiritual gift used in contradictory to the fruit of the spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness. What's the last one? Somebody did a Bible verse. Good job. The fruit of the spirit and the gifts of the spirit and the words of the spirit are all from the same spirit. So when he says here, stop thinking like children but in regards to evil be infants. Here's where I think he's making a very, I mean Paul was a very smart dude. Like he was trained in rhetoric. He knew how to argue with the Greeks, the birthplace of philosophy. He knew how to hang with those guys and he knew how to hang in the synagogue. All right, first question. Is a calling to serve and teach a gift? Are you called according to the gift or the gift separate from the specific calling? Oh, thank you, questioner. Whoever that is. That's a great question. So let me take, because it's really two questions, so let me address them separately. The first question is, is a calling to serve and teach a gift? Yes and no. The entire body of Christ is called to serve the body. So that's not really a gift, that's a purpose. The purpose of gifts is to serve the church. The purpose of gifts is to serve the church. So now we get down to the second part of the question, which is teaching. I'm going to state my opinion, right? So Jen, let's just put a little note here, asterisk. This is Pastor Bill's opinion. This is not the Rhema word of God. I am of the opinion that callings and giftings go together, right? I was called to serve the church as a servant. My wife and I have been serving the Lord in vocational ministry for 22, almost 23 years. But in that time, Gretchen and I have not always had a gift of teaching. So my calling to serve the body is the same calling that all of you have. If you are a believer, if you are in the Adelphoi gang, if you trust in Jesus, then you are also called to serve the body. But that doesn't mean that all of us serve the body in the same way. So I would argue that yes, is a calling to serve and teaching a gift. A calling to serve is not a gift, it's a purpose. A calling to teach is a calling. But a spiritual gift of teaching is a gift. Is it possible that one can have a calling to teach and not the spiritual gift of teaching? Yes. Now why would I say this? Because my mother is going to watch this sermon later today. And she and I had a conversation two weeks ago where she was preparing to go have a conversation with the pastor at her church. She is a lifelong teacher. My mother possesses a college degree in education and spent two decades in corporate education working in the company I've Been Moved. Most people call it IBM, the computer company. It basically stands for I've Been Moved because they relocate you all the time. That's my mom's IBM joke, not getting tired. My mother is an incredibly talented and trained teacher. That does not mean she possesses a spiritual gift of teaching. It means she possesses a natural trained skill set and a honed ability and should be allowed to use that skill set in the body. Just like the amazing people that you just saw up here leading worship. They have a natural musical skill set. I know most of them quite intimately, quite personally. They all have honed their craft. They use their skills not just in this room but in other churches and in other places even in other denominations. There are people up here that also lead worship in messianic Jewish synagogues. Did you know that? They're awesome. That's a natural skill and a honed ability that serves the church. The spiritual gift of teaching is for the purpose of teaching but I would be remiss as a Bible teacher if I tried to tell you that only those who possess the spiritual gift of teaching deserve to teach. I think that's false. I think we're discount...Litha, you're in here somewhere right there. Miss Litha, I'm not going to ask you to stand but I'm just going to pick on you for a minute. So Jim, you get to take five. I'm going to pick on somebody that's not you today. Miss Litha is a trained and educated professional educator. She serves in our public school system. Thank you for your service by the way. Do we as the body appreciate the time and the hours that she has placed in gaining that education and honing that skill set? I say yes. I say that that is a skill set and that is deserving of being used in the body of Christ. Yes, we can argue where are women allowed to teach. Great. You want to have that discussion? Trust me, I'm down. I'm a theologian. I love these fights but we're going to love each other in our disagreement because that's chapter 12 and 13. But I would submit that even if Miss Litha is not given the Holy Spirit gift of teaching, she walks in the door already qualified to be a teacher because of her education and her experience at teaching. In the same reason that all of these lovely people that you just heard them trying to mask all of my wrong notes as I was singing, they're all got an experience and an education in doing what they do. So the answer to your first question is yes. Is a calling to serve a purpose for the whole church and is teaching a gift? Yes, but not all teachers have the Holy Spirit's gift of teaching. Some of them have natural abilities that should not be discarded. The second half of the question, are you called according to the gift or the gift separate from the specific calling? Okay, so now I'm going to really upset you. You ready? Can we agree that all members of the body of Christ are called to serve the church? Can we agree with this? Yes. Can we also agree that there are plenty of people who go to church who never put their hand to the plow? Yes, we can agree with these, right? I'm not offending you yet. Okay, so guess what? Here's where I'm going to offend you. So everybody just put your seatbelt on, tray table, locked position. If the entire body of Christ is called to serve the church, but we willingly admit that at least half of us are not doing the job, then that means at least half of us will never experience the spiritual gift that God intended for you to use because you're not even in the workplace it's intended to be used in. So yes, someone else might need to use that spiritual gift because the Holy Spirit wants this church to grow, amen? The Holy Spirit wants people to come to Christ, amen? And when we have half to three quarters of the church, I don't mean catalyst, we have an amazingly high service percentage, but I mean the church at large. The church at large in America is built on sitting, not serving. There are plenty of churches you can go to and they're so big and they're so large that you can just fly under the radar and just sit there and worship and maybe give, maybe not, sing a good song, listen to your best life now and be done and walk out the door and never actually engage. Then the Holy Spirit's gonna go, you know what? Man, I need somebody who's got the gift of care. Here's Jim, he's not really bright, but he's a good guy. I told you I was coming back for you, Jim, right? It might just be that someone else in this very church has the gift of mercy and has the gift of help and would be wonderful in care-based ministry, but we're stuck with Jim because you're not doing anything. Second question, are all Christians given a gift? I believe I just answered this one, but I would say all Christians are purposed to have gifts, but what's the point of giving you the tools if you're not even going to step into the workshop? What's the point of giving you the gear to play football if all you want to do is sit on the stands and pretend like you know how to call the play? Pretend like you know how to be the quarterback or the running back or the whatever other backs there are, right? Because I'm a non-sport... I'm trying, June. I try so hard to use your sports ball analogies and get the puck in the hoop, but I would say that it is the Holy Spirit's intention for all believers to have spiritual gifts, but for all believers who are not engaged in serving in his church, and again, this is not meant to be offensive, but here's the truth on the jaw. Why do you deserve to celebrate that you have a spiritual gift when you will not enter the workforce in which the gift is intended? It's not meant for you. Your spiritual gift is not meant to make you famous. It's not meant to make you feel good about yourself. Your spiritual gift is meant to benefit the local body of Christ and in doing so transform the global body of Christ, and if you're not in the game, then you don't need a gift. You can sit on the stands. Maybe you're not comfortable yet. Maybe you're not trained yet. There are some good reasons why people are not in service. I'm not throwing everybody under the bus, but if you're sitting there and you've never engaged in church or you're sitting here watching at home because you think watching a live stream is actually participating in church and you don't you a connect card and you don't engage in a small group and you don't meet with other people that have vulnerable Christian conversations looking at you through the lens, yeah, you don't need a spiritual gift because you're not playing the game. Next question. Does calling come before equipping? Yes. Whoever asked this, I love you wherever you're at. Does calling come before equipping or does equipping come before calling? I'm going to say yes to both because I feel like I have experienced both of these in my life and I have witnessed this in the lives of other people. Sometimes the Lord puts an opportunity in front of you and like Gideon, like David, like many of the Old Testament prophets, you don't feel up to the task like Moses. Moses literally told God, God, I think you have the wrong man. Like that's some way those bro to look at God Almighty and say I believe you have the wrong guy, sir. I'm no good at the talkie talkie. That's the new international bill translation of what Moses tried to say to God. Moses is calling, but see here's what's funny. Moses was already equipped and didn't know it. He was raised in the palace, trained in the shepherd, and then went back as a prophet. You may be equipped and you don't know it and yes I believe that my life has had a calling, a vocational calling to serve the kingdom of God since I was a child. I believe that's why some of the spiritual struggles that I had as a child were very difficult. That's why I believe I struggled with wanting to take my own life as a teenager because God had a destiny on my life that would have been eradicated had I succeeded. I believe a lot of the struggles that I went through, many of you know, losing my mother as a child, losing my father as a child, having I mean been taken in by my aunt and uncle who put up with literally the worst teenage son that has ever been born. I could have given Dennis the Menace a run for his sitcom. If you don't know who Dennis the Menace is, you're a fetus. It's okay. That was a joke for everybody who's already old enough to rent cars. I do believe that calling can be come before equipping and then sometimes like, and here to use another example, it wasn't until I went to college that God turned on this whole gift for teaching that I'm able to recall all the stuff that I learned. Trust me, my children are here today, my wife is watching online. I forget things all the time. Like my daughter's giving me, I literally put my keys down. I can't remember where it is but when I sit up here I can remember every book I've read and I can remember exactly what I need to remember to say to you. I can't remember that's a gift. I can't, I don't own that. I don't take credit for it. Also if you ask to meet with me during the week, sometimes the gift is on the fritz and you get the ADHD bill and not the pastor bill. You just got to know that's what's coming. So good question. I think it can go both ways. Brothers and sisters, stop thinking like children in regards to evil be infants. Here's what he's saying. Infants do not have cognitive knowledge. Yes, we agree. Infants are infants because they don't have the ability to have cognitive thought or critical thinking. We is not saying when it comes to spiritual gifts be like infants. He's saying when it comes to evil be like infants. Be unknowing, be un-understanding, be non-learned of evil when it comes to spiritual gifts. It's not just evil of all kinds. Sharita, it's specifically in a whole section about spiritual gifts. Brothers and sisters, stop thinking like children in regards to evil be infants. Be non-knowing, be unknowing for anything that is opposed to God but in your thinking. Now in your regular thinking, not your evil thinking, right? Not your dark side. I want your light side. Oh boy, this one over here. That one we want you to be mature. We want you to be fully mature. All right, next question. Is serving the church only a Sunday thing that happens in about two hours or is serving the church a lifestyle that happens beyond gathering on Sundays or midweek Bible studies? Again, wonderful question. Thank you, questioner. I would submit to you that the questioner is exactly right. Serving the global body of Christ is a 24-7-3-6-5 ordeal. Jesus is not only King from 10 to 1130 on Sunday mornings. Jesus is not only God from 9 to noon on Sunday mornings. Jesus is God every moment of every minute of every second of every day from now for the rest of eternity. Which means, and I want to make a distinction here, serving, and I'm going to say the local church, serving the local church in our context catalyst community church, right here and online. Those of you online, you're part of our family, right? If I can throw shade at you through the camera lens, then we love you. That's how we show our appreciation. You're a part of this family too. Serving the local church is an aspect of serving the global church, right? When I was growing up, we used to call that the big C church, which is every Christian who's ever lived worldwide. And then the local church is whatever building you happen to go to or engage with online on Sunday mornings. Serving the local church is a component of serving the global church. But there are several key components to serving the kingdom of God that don't take place on Sunday morning. For instance, personal evangelism. If Ray, you're just looking good today and you're right there in the white college shirt, so I'm going to take you. If Ray goes out on Tuesday and he goes to lunch with a friend of his from work and that friend happens to share a very emotional thing that's happening in his life. And Ray says, you know what? I'm so sorry that's happening. God sees it. Jesus wants you to know that he loves you. May I pray for you? Is Ray engaging in ministry at his Tuesday lunch? Absolutely. Don't discount that. That's ministry from the whole body of Christ to the whole broken world. We don't give up on that. If June's at work on a Thursday and somebody comes into her work and there's maybe a family situation or she's got a co-worker who is struggling at home either with their marriage or with their children and she's sitting in the break room and the co-workers in tears and they got to put it all together because they got to get into the get on shift and June says, let me pray for you really quick. I've been where you've been. It's okay. Is June engaging in ministry Thursday at the break room? Yes. So you can't confine ministry. The difference between your personal ministry, which is every time you're not at church, and our local church ministry is here we work as a team and Monday to Saturday we run as individuals. In both of my examples with Ray and with June, they're ministering as individual ambassadors of Christ, which all of you are by the way, if you forgot to pick up your membership card, just grab one on the way out. All of you are ambassadors for Jesus. And this gets into a really interesting question. Nobody's asked it, but I'll go ahead and ask it because my wife's thinking and I could feel it in my brain. What is the purpose when the local church comes together? This is a really fun question. If you want to go like debate this at lunch, some people say the purpose of the local church is to be the visible representation of the body of Christ. That's not bad. The purpose of the local church is for believers to gather together and glorify the name of Jesus as they did in the first century. Also true, but there's a third purpose to the local church that many overlook. The purpose of the local church is to train and deploy disciple-making ambassadors for Jesus into a broken world. That's where my particular kind of calling shines. I'm a teacher, I'm a trainer. I don't want you to come to church and leave the same way you came here. I want you to learn something new and then I want to kick you in the butt hard enough that you go do something new. And then week after week after week when you come and you get trained and you learn stuff new and you do stuff new and you learn stuff new and you do stuff new. All of a sudden you're going to see more than just Ray and June doing acts of ministry during the week. You're going to see more people coming to Christ. You're going to see more marriages restored. You're going to see more children relationship with their moms and dads restored. You're going to see a community transformed because now we're not just waiting for the super special preacher guy to figure out what good stuff to say on a Sunday morning, but the entire body of Christ is deployed like an insurgency into a broken world. That's God's plan for the church. This is where we're trained. This is where we're built up. This is where we're grown. This is where I push you, John, just hard enough that you got to do one more rep to grow those muscles so that when you go back out into the real world, that's what you do. So, no. Ministry is not a Sunday thing and I love the idea that the person used the word lifestyle. Ministry is a lifestyle. The only question is whether you're living it or you're not. So, the next thing he says here, let's go to verse 21. Maturity is measured in the ministry. Maturity is measured in the ministry. And now Paul has a super random Old Testament quote. So, I'm going to read it, but then I don't have it for you on the screen, but I'm going to read the context of where the quote comes from so you can hear it. So, 1 Corinthians chapter 14 verse 21, in the law it is written by people of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners, I will speak to this people. Even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord. Yep, just that much. So, that sounds like a super weird reference, right? But Paul is a Pharisee, well trained in the Old Testament. So, those of you like taking notes, Paul is quoting from the book of Isaiah chapter 28, specifically verses 11 and 12. But I'm going to read starting back at verse 5 because I want you to hear the section that Paul is quoting from the book of Isaiah. That Paul is quoting so you get a little bit of the flavor of what he's trying to put down. So, here's Isaiah chapter 28, it will not be on your screen, but just flow with me, starting in verse 5. In that day, the Lord Almighty will be a glorious crown, a beautiful wreath for the remnant of his people. He will be a spirit of justice to the one who sits in judgment, a source of strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate. And these also stagger from wine and reel from beer. Priests and prophets stagger from beer and are befuddled with wine. They reel from beer, they stagger when seeing visions, they stumble when rendering decisions. This is verse 8, all the tables are covered with vomit and there is not a spot without filth. Who is he trying to teach? To whom is he explaining his message to children weaned from their milk, to those just taken from the breast? For it is, do this, do that, a rule for this, a rule for that, a little here, a little there. And then here's what Paul quotes, very well then, with foreign lips and strange tongues, God will speak to this people, for whom he said, this is the resting place, let the weary rest, and this is the place of repose, but they would not listen. So just put this in perspective, right? Because this right here, this Old Testament reference to me frames this whole section. That's why this sermon is only five verses, because I had to include a whole other section from the Old Testament. Paul is writing to the first century Corinthian church, Aaron who's being unloving in the way they deploy spiritual gifts. They are using spiritual gifts to rank people. And Paul picks an obscure section from the scroll of Isaiah, where the Lord is trying to encourage his people, but the priests are so drunk and so filthy that God has to send foreigners to the church. God has to send foreigners to encourage his people, because the priests are stumbling around and drunken priests are teaching immature legalism. Barry, you think that's a coincidence? Like really? You think the apostle Paul finds one random section from the middle of an Old Testament prophetic book in which the priests are being so worldly, they're being so ungodly, they're being so drunk, and they're unable to execute their priestly functions. And that's the section that he quotes. Now you would miss that if you didn't go back and find what is Paul saying. I think this is the deep part, this is the cut deep part of Paul's rebuke. The Corinthians were known to be worldly. They were known to be sinful. They were in the wicked city. They were known to value human things over spiritual things. They were known to misrank and move different spiritual gifts out of whack. Why? Just like the priests and prophets who stagger from beer and are befuddled from wine, they stagger when seeing visions, stumble when rendering decisions, and all their tables are covered with vomit. And there is not a spot without self. Paul is reaching deep and I think the correction that he is bringing to them is that they are acting in a similar manner to these Old Testament prophets who are being rebuked by Isaiah. Because we know that the Corinthians had to receive instruction about communion. They were getting drunk during communion. They were letting poor people sit on the floor and rich people sit in wonderful chairs. They were ranking people by wealth. They were ranking people by their spiritual gifts. I see that question. Give me a second. I do not think it is a coincidence that Paul rolls deep with this correction. He's saying to the first Corinthian church, you are acting like the drunken prophets of old and that is why I have to speak to my people in a new way. Because you are so disjointed that it's not working. Next question. Many people suffer from personal trauma. With that trauma, many people believe they are not good enough. How can those people overcome those convictions to serve the body of Christ? What in the Bible can they look to to encourage them that they are enough that hurt can be used as to serve the Lord? So whoever that questioner is, A, I love you. B, I feel you, my brother or sister. But my easy answer is I am one of those people. Easiest answer I can give you. I am one of those born out of trauma people. My mother died of cancer when I was nine. The first funeral I attended was hers. Shortly after that, my father told me not to cry about my mom anymore and then dropped me off my aunt and uncles and disappeared. Then for years I fought with my aunt and uncle who tried to love me but I tried to repel them because in my teenage mind I thought if I can just be bad enough they'll send me back to my father not knowing the entire time that it was a father who never wanted me and who never came back. Now silver lining, my father has been a better grandchild to my children than he was ever a dad to me. Bully for him, I'm glad he pulled it out in the end. But I live with a crippling fear of abandonment every single day. My wife knows this. My children know this. It's my single greatest fear to be abandoned by those that love me. Why? Because that's how I grew up. I carry that trauma every day. I carry that trauma when I'm sitting here right now. I carry that trauma every time I walk in the door. It doesn't make me useless. It allows me to experience his strength and his grace and his mercy when he works through my brokenness in ways that I could not imagine. Like and let's just be like let's just be super real right? Because my wife's not here to throw a bad look at me so I can be as real as I want today. She'll throw my daughter, she'll give me a bad look. Many of you know the tragedy that my family experienced last year. My wife and I carried my sister-in-law through her battle with cancer. It wasn't the first mother that I had to experience die from cancer. But it was for all the children in my family. Who is better suited to be in that moment for my nieces? Who is better suited to stand under all of that pressure and make sure that my nieces do not experience the abandonment that I experienced as a child? Somebody who thinks they know who that feels or somebody who knows darn well what that emptiness feels like. My brokenness becomes their grace. My brokenness becomes their protection. My brokenness becomes the very motivation for which I will never allow my nieces or my children to experience the ouchies that I experience. So for this person and this questioner, I think it's the exact opposite. You don't have to be good enough because of your brokenness. God is good enough to operate through your brokenness to benefit the whole body through what we go through. So whoever the questioner is, my answer to you is simply follow me as I follow Christ. God did not heal my brokenness. My single greatest nightmare all the time is that my wife gets in a car accident and she forgets that she loves me. That's my single greatest... I mean you can laugh at it. It's funny. It's funny that that's the the greatest thing. Give me masked murderers. Give me like Freddy Krueger people with knives all day long. Click, click, boom, done, right? But don't let me wake up one day and my wife forgets that she loves me. Biggest terrifying fear of my life. Why? Because I was abandoned by everybody who's supposed to love me as a child. What do I do by that? I commit that I will not abandon my family. I'm now basically... my wife and I are basically a parent for all of my natural born children and my my sister-in-law's children. I'm basically like a dad of seven. Some of them in here, some of them don't. Some of them live in my house, some of them don't. Some of them come and visit. Some of them have an amazingly cute baby who comes to church. Some of them don't, right? But to the questioner, I submit to you that what you need to get over is the idea that you have to be good enough for God to use you. Let's look at Paul. Paul wasn't good enough. He was a murderer. He was a murderer who actually wanted to put Christians in jail and God used him to write like half the books of the New Testament. Let's look at Moses. Moses was a murderer. Ran to the wilderness to get away with it and God used him to deliver people. David, the man after God's own heart, is an adulterer, a schemer, and a murderer. I haven't killed anybody yet. I'm doing pretty good. So the next time you feel like your trauma cannot allow you to serve God, follow me as I follow Christ. My trauma made me who I am, but it's who I am that allows me to serve God today. Don't define your life by your past. Define your life with your identity in Christ and he will create a future that you can't even see. So thank you for that question. Wonderful. So here now we have to get to different target audiences for different gifts and here's the big crux of the section, which is why it's only five verses. Verse 22. Thus tongues are a sign not for believers, but for unbelievers. Now he's using the justification from the drunken priest passage from Isaiah 28 and he's saying tongues are a sign not for believers, but for unbelievers, while prophecy is a sign not for unbelievers, but for believers. So let's switch around, just make it clear. So let's get plain English. Tongues are used for unbelievers to see the power of God in the midst of his people. Prophecy is used for believers who are already in his people to be sharpened and made better. That's the new international bill translation of what Paul's saying. What Paul is saying is when the very people who are meant to represent Christ, i.e. the priests, the elders, when we are so drunk as a skunk that we can't do our jobs, God will speak through whoever he needs to, to bring one lost person to see the kingdom of God in action. But prophecy, that gift that's used where it's all in our natural language, right? Like today I'm speaking English because if you wanted me to preach in any other language, the sermon would be very short. Prophecy is used amongst believers because its purpose is for the sharpening and the growing and the maturity of the body. Don't forget the analogy he started with. Be like infants versus be adults, be mature. Tongues is for conversion. That's what we saw in the book of Acts. Acts chapter 2. They're all praying up in the upper room. The Holy Spirit falls and then if you read Acts chapter 2, you're going to see there are people who are in town from all of different places and now all of a sudden they're here in their native language, spoke by people who are all from the same area. Can you imagine like just like for instance, if Acts chapter 2 were to happen today in any region of our country, right? Our country is big enough that we have different dialects, right? Like if Acts chapter 2 happened in New York and you had to hear all of these different languages spoken with a New York accent, right? What would Spanish sound like after you got your coffee at the corner store, right? It's like, hola, hola mi amigos. Glorificamos el señor, right? Glorificamos el Jesus. Actually those are all Spanish words by the way, but they're all in that super thick New York accent. That's what they heard. I know that's a super weird ADHD picture but that's on my brain things. That's what they heard. They heard people who should not be able to speak their language all of a sudden speak in their language. Right? They're all of a sudden hearing these languages that aren't supposed to be in that dialect and it catches the ear and they go, what is that? And now they see the power of God in the people of God and that's what tongues are for. However, he's clearly saying that your prophecy when we deliver the words of God to the people of God for the current or near future, that's prophecy. Words of God to the people of God for the current or near future. This is for maturity to grow us as individuals. Then we get to verse 23. The misuse of spiritual gifts is what creates confusion. Watch. If therefore the whole church comes together and everybody look, everybody be speaking in tongues and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not think that you are out of your mind? So this is he's talking about tongues now being used within congregational worship, which is the main setting here. They were all out of whack. You would walk into the first Corinthian church and everybody's speaking in a different tongue. Everybody's speaking in a different language that they don't even understand because that's the Holy Spirit's gift of tongues. Speaking in an unlearned human language. You're speaking a language you don't know. Mike, do you not speak Chinese? Mandarin at all? Like even a word. So if Mike stood up right now and started speaking Mandarin Chinese and then Jerry, you speak Hungarian? Great. Jerry starts speaking up, speaking Hungarian. I know Jim, he doesn't speak anything English. So Jim stands up, speaks any other language, it's not English. But then everybody did that. The cacophony of sound would be unintelligible. It would be non-understandable. Then when an unbeliever walks in, what are they supposed to do? When tongues was used in Acts chapter 2, it was for evangelistic purposes. Here he's saying tongues within a corporate worship setting defeats the purpose. Because within the corporate worship setting, our job, now follow that through to 24, 25. The proper use of spiritual gifts creates conviction. 24. Here we go. But if all prophecy and an unbeliever or an outsider enters, he is convicted by all. He's called to account by all. Keep going. The secrets of his heart are disclosed and so falling on his face, he will worship God and declares that God is really among them. What Paul is trying to get the Corinthians to change is the accentuation of spiritual gifts during their corporate worship gathering. Now we still have churches that do this today. We still have whole denominations that are built on this today. And most of you know I'm a continuationist. I absolutely believe that the spiritual gifts that we see taking place in Acts are capable of taking place today. Notice I said capable. I believe God can do anything he did in the text he can do today. I also believe that whatever God does must obey the text in the same way it had to in the first century. The gifts of the Spirit come with the fruit of the Spirit guided by the word of the Spirit. Here the purpose is so that the correct use of spiritual gifts will sharpen and grow the body of Christ to ultimately lead to more salvation and the growing of the kingdom of God. I don't see why this is supposed to be a complicated thing. Here's where it gets complicated. When we have people and denominations and individuals who want to over accentuate certain gifts over others. Tongues is almost always featured. Why? Because it's creepy. Right? Again I was raised in a very conservative American Baptist church just outside of Trenton, New Jersey. My family got paroled out of Jersey when I was nine and I was able to go. Miss Rose loves it when I when I throw shade at Jersey. We pick on tongues because it looks weird. It's clearly evidently supernatural. When I'm up here and the Holy Spirit is throwing things in my brain and my brain is trying to catch them and get them all to come out of my face all at one time you don't necessarily see the spiritual nature of that gift. That doesn't mean it's not real. It just means it's less visible. It's less evident. If somebody were to stand up and all of a sudden speak a message in tongues and then Jim were to stand up because we know he can't speak anything outside of English and he's to translate that language. That's miraculous. It's oh wow God's power is here and he catches us off guard. But when somebody uses the Holy Spirit's gift of administration we're not as impressed. That's our fault guys. That's not his fault. That's not the text's fault. That's we are trying to create an illegitimate ranking system of certain gifts over other gifts. That's not allowed and that's ultimately the correction that Paul's trying to bring. You're using your gifts out of order. You're ranking your gifts inappropriately. You're celebrating certain gifts over gifts. You're celebrating certain wealth over poor people. The body of Christ is supposed to be a unity but not a uniformity and those of you may be new to catalysts I try to say this quite often. Unity in the body of Christ does not require uniformity. You do not have to agree with every single brother and sister in Christ on every single theological issue. There are some foundational things that we all have to agree on okay. We all have to agree in the nature of God the person of Jesus Christ. Salvation is found only in the name of Christ. The Bible is the true literal words of God. We cannot disagree about those. If you walk in the doors of this church and you try to elevate any other book equal to the word of God I'm going to shut you down hard. But if you walk in this church and go I do not believe the supernatural gifts are today. I would be like please sit right here. Your other cessationist friends are right here. If you walk in the church and believe I absolutely believe that people should and are able to speak in tongues today. Here you go. Here's the continuationist section. I absolutely believe that women should be deacons. Here you go. Here's the woman deacon section. I absolutely believe that women should not be deacons. Here you go. Here's the men only deacon section. There are plenty of theological issues that we can and should allow disagreement debate and discussion. If you're new to catalyst I know that's kind of a new thing. But there are just plenty of theological issues that the Bible allows for difference of opinion. You know what the Bible doesn't allow for? Disunity because of difference of opinion. That's not allowed. I welcome everyone. I mean listen we have cessationists right in the church today and I love them and I welcome them and I enjoy my debates with them even though I'm still sitting up here teaching like a continuationist and I hope that they still feel welcome and when there's a good cessationist point to be had I'm gonna make it. Because this is not a salvific unifying issue we should be able to accept that the problem in the Corinthian church was the over accentuating of spiritual gifts to outrank people and places. That's not okay. You know what's okay? We are all made equal in Christ. We are all born sinners into a sinful broken corrupt world. We are all redeemed by Christ himself. We're equal on both fronts. We are all also called to serve the body of Christ. We are all those who are serving given gifts for service. That's four things that make all of us equal. Maybe we could get over some of the differences. Right? So all of you don't like the same style of music. Okay. So we all don't have the same theological agreements on everything. Okay. The problem is and I'm going to take a lot of the blame on this one. There are a lot of people who do what I do. Who lead churches. Who avoid fights by checking all the boxes and picking for you what this church believes. Right? Anybody ever, you know, please don't raise your hand. But anybody who's ever been to one of those kinds of churches just nod your head. You know what I'm saying, right? There's some churches that choose for you all the theological choices. And if you want to worship here, here's our stance on like all 37 something issues. Right? Whatever. I don't get that. Because if I were to stand up here and John, if you and I were to sit here and make a doctrine statement, because we could debate every single issue, right? And we decide what the best issue is for every single issue. And then we tell everyone else in the church, here's what you have to believe or you're not welcome at Catalyst Community Church. You're elevating your theological arrogance over the unity that Christ died for. I'm not going to be theologically arrogant enough to believe that I'm right on every issue. Right? I'll be wrong about something. But what I'm going to do is I'm going to teach you every side of the issue. So that at least when I get to heaven and I have to answer to Jesus for why I taught the ABC issue wrong and I chose issue C or view C but it was actually view B. At least Jesus will go, Bill, at least you gave him B. So you get a half a point credit. That's a good job. We have to be able to use our spiritual gifts. And I was picking on theology because that's my area, right? That's my training, that's also my gifting. But it's not the only area. The unity that we are supposed to have as the body of Christ is the same kind of unity that you see in military units who are in foxholes. Why? Because we're all called to the same mission. We're all subordinates. We're all subordinates to the same general and we're all working on the same plan. I bet you every single one of you, whether you're here in the room or you're watching us online, every single one of you know someone who's destined for hell if they don't change their eternal destiny. I think that's a good enough mission. I think that's a good enough reason for us to delve into this correction, accept it for what it is, and then we're going to be able to do it. I think that's a good enough reason for us to delve into this correction, accept it for what it is, and get going on what we got to get going on. Whatever your spiritual gift is, and listen, if you go back to, was it lesson one of this series where I gave you all the lists? There are several, was it lesson one, Casey? All right, Casey says it's lesson one. So if it's not there, it's her fault, not mine. Sermon one from this series, I tried to give you all the places that spiritual gifts are mentioned in scripture. And guess what? There's no one exhaustive list. But go and read that list and ask yourself, do you think God might be working in your life in any of those ways? And are you using that for the unity and the growth of the body of Christ? Are you using that to help this local church grow and his global kingdom grow? Because that's pretty much the only goal that we have. So let me give you the takeaways as we bring this one in for a landing. What? So ushers and worship team, I'm going to ask everybody to get in place while I give this takeaway. When spiritual gifts are used immaturely and incorrectly, they can lead to confusion and denial of faith. However, when they are used correctly, they always point directly to Christ and lead to conversion. That's why spiritual gifts are important. When we utilize our spiritual gifts correctly, we can solve confusion and we can lead people to Christ. That is our job. That is what we do. That's what we're here for.