Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you for being a part of our service today. For all of you who are joining us online, especially all of you who are there in the chat, I jumped in just as church was starting just to say good morning to everybody. It was fantastic to see. So for those who are here in the Wilmington campus, unless you looked on your smartphone, you wouldn't necessarily know this, but there's a dozen people who are joining us online right now. And I want to say a huge shout out to Miss Tara who's watching from India because that's where she got sent for work this week. And I just think it is an amazing privilege but also responsibility to learn how to use technology well in worship. We don't worship technology, but we worship a God who's given us these amazing tools. So for all of you who are a part of our online family, thank you for worshiping with us. Thank you for being here. At Catalyst, our vision is to do three things. And I've been saying them for a few weeks, so now we're going to pop quiz and we're going to see who is listening, right? So we want to do three things. What's the first one? We want to meet needs. That's right. So as a church, our vision is to meet needs. What's the second one? Build relationships. And what's the third one? Mature Christians, right? So I'm going to say it here. At Catalyst, our vision is to meet needs, build relationships, and mature Christians. That is what we want to be about. We want to be a church that meets needs in our community. We want to be a church that builds relationships within the body. And we also want to be a church that matures Christians to know more about the Bible and to be able to live it out in their daily lives. So we are going to be concluding our series on the gifts of the Holy Spirit this morning. Now, this series has been a little different, so if you are joining us for the first time for this series, I'd like those of you who have the Catalyst app, please go ahead and pull up the app on your phone, and you're going to notice that box that says, Sermon Q&A. Trust me, I think you're going to want it this morning. If you are joining us online, our online host will drop a link to that question form. So this is going to be the last message of this series. This is your last Sunday to be able to actually ask a question mid-sermon while we're going and have me try to do my best to address them. And I think on a passage like this, especially in a topic like this, that's super important. So give everybody a second to get there. While you're going there, let me give you the key thought that sort of holds this whole series together. God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His church. God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His church. That sentence establishes two key things right up front. Whatever the point of spiritual gifts is, spiritual gifts are given by the Holy Spirit to the people of God for the growth of the church of God. They were never given for our individual benefit. Before I read this morning's text, I would like to do a simple response exercise. So I'm going to say something, and I just want you to say it back to me, okay? So I need everybody to say, I will not leave this church over this sermon. Okay? So just so everybody knows, I heard you. You said it, okay? So, I will not leave this church over this sermon. So if you have your Bibles, turn or tap with me to 1 Corinthians 14. You're going to read the last remaining verses of this chapter, 34 to 40. And as soon as I read the first verse, you're going to see why I just asked you to say that. So here we go, 1 Corinthians 14. Start reading in verse 34. Women should remain silent in the churches. Thank you, sir. That's why we all said it. Nobody's leaving. At least you're going to give me a chance to show you what he's saying here. So 34, women should remain silent in the churches. They are not allowed to speak. They must be in submission as the law says. 35, and if they want to inquire about something, they should ask their own husbands at home, for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in church. Or did the Word of God originate with you? Are you the only people that it has reached? If anyone thinks they are a prophet or otherwise gifted by the Spirit, let them acknowledge that what I am writing to you is the Lord's command. But if anyone ignores this, they will themselves be ignored. Therefore, my brothers and sisters, be eager to prophesy and do not forbid speaking in tongues. But everything should be done in a fitting and orderly way. All right, so now let's go back to the beginning. Everybody put their seat backs and tray tables in their upright locked positions. Put on your seat belts. Ladies, take a breath. I'll start out by saying it doesn't mean what you think it means. So, remember for this whole series, I have been harping on the context. And that has largely been because this, as soon as you read it, right? And let's just show of hands. If you're watching online, hit the hands up button in the chat. But show of hands, how many people when you read that, you just immediately think he's writing to us today and we're not supposed to let women talk in church ever. Hopefully by now you understand that there is a context between the writer and the recipient of this letter that we are blind to. He did not write this letter directly to us. He did not write this letter to Catalyst Community Church in Wilmington, Delaware, today in 2025. He wrote it in the first century to the church at Corinth, which we've been talking extensively about, that they were a wealthy church. They were a wicked church. In context, we are in a chapter about disruption during worship. And I need to point out before I even get to this verse, Paul has already limited speech twice in this chapter. Remember, if you go back, first he said, all y'all are speaking in tongues way too much, two or three at most because we need to keep order. Second, all y'all are trying to prophesy on top of each other and it's just not making no sense. Two or three at most and you should weigh, what does that prophet say to know if it's from God? So before I even read 34, I need you to understand that women are not being singled out. This is not some sort of misogyny or product of the patriarchy because he is writing in the first century. So let's look at verse 34. Couple key things I need you to see here. First, there is no distinction in the Greek language between the word woman and the word wife. So here in English, we have two different words for that. A wife is a woman who has already been married. So we make an additional distinction. That's what's different. You can be a woman and not be a wife. In Greek, you cannot do that. A woman is a wife and a wife is a woman. The word is interchangeable. So it is correct to read the verse and say wives should remain silent in church because the word means woman or wife and it could mean both or it could mean either or and context needs to determine this for us. Second, should remain silent in the churches. Let's handle the first and remember you are totally allowed to ask comments and questions while I preach this, but let's take the first thing off the table. This cannot be interpreted as a blanket silencing of female speech in the Christian Church bar none. It cannot be. How do I know that? Because if you were to rewind just a few chapters in the same letter, Paul gives instructions for how women are to pray and prophesy during a church service. So Stephen, it seems logical to me that if three chapters earlier, Paul is giving instructions on how women should be talking during church, he can't in this chapter say women are not allowed to talk in church at all and have that be logically consistent. So I need you to understand ladies, you can bristle your neck down a little bit. This is not a restrictive command for all churches everywhere that no women are ever allowed to speak and I know that because three chapters earlier, Paul was giving correct instructions about how women should pray in a public worship service with their heads covered or not covered. How women should prophesy with their heads covered or not covered. Well, if Paul is giving the instruction for how women are supposed to pray or prophesy, it is clearly understood that they do. Does that make sense to everybody? So the first sentence cannot be interpreted as a blanket women are never allowed to speak. It just can't be. So then what is the appropriate context? Well, I think the context of the chapter has largely been the same. The first Corinthians, excuse me, the church in Corinth was wildly out of whack and they were doing a lot of different things that were being disruptive to the operation of church. Just like Paul had to give instructions for tongues because they were using it in an inappropriate fashion to bring disorder and disruption into a church service. Just like prophecy, they were bringing prophecy in a way that was bringing disorder or disruption into the church. So when I see this, women should remain silent in the churches and the next sentence, they are not allowed to speak, but must remain in submission as the law says. The context needs to be understood that the women he is referring to, keep in mind, letter of correction, not instruction. Right, not 1 Timothy, not Titus. This is correction. They're doing something wrong. So if you are reading a letter of instruction or a correction and you read, Casey needs to do this differently, right? You shouldn't interpret that the whole reason I needed to write the letter of instruction is that something was already out of whack. So what I can tell you before I even leave the first sentence is not only is it not a blanket command that no women are ever allowed to speak in church, it is not misogynistic, it is pointing out that there is something going on in the first century church in the same way that tongues was being used inappropriately and needed to be corrected to bring order, in the same way that prophecy was being corrected in order to bring order, there are a group of women in the church that are speaking during the service in a way that is bringing disorder. Is everybody following me so far? Now granted, somebody's gonna say, well, pastor, you're jumping off the text. I think I'm jumping through the text, not off the text, but I'm staying within the context. If it was proper to understand that tongues were being used in a disorderly fashion, and that's why the correction was given, and prophecies being used in a disorderly fashion, that's why the correction is given, then it's illogical to assume that we should blanket, just tell all women to be quiet, when in the rest of the chapter it's about order. And he comes back to tongues and prophecy at the end of the chapter, so you can't say that he started a new section, because he didn't. So what I can tell you is there was something going on within a group of women during the worship in Corinth, during the first century, that was bringing disorder and disruption, so what could that be? Well, we got a couple of choices. Since Miss Rose and Miss Andrea and Miss Gretchen are all here in the same row, I'm just gonna pick on all of you at the same time. Let's just say we're in the middle of worship, and Miss Andrea, since you're in the middle, you decide to start a side conversation with Miss Rose about something I'm saying, or you don't like my shirt, or my hair's not done right, or any number of things, right? So you just reach over and you kind of push Connor out of the way and you start having a side conversation. But then Gretchen and her daughters hear your side conversation, yep, you guys are all guilty, it's okay, so all of you start having a side conversation and now you're giggling and you're laughing and you're pointing, would we find that to be disruptive? Yes, we would. Would you expect me, as the pastor, or Jim, as an elder, since he's seated right next to that row, would you expect there to be correction to be like, yo ladies, if you need to have that side conversation, if it's important, please go outside, but if it's not important, can you please be quiet? Does that feel insulting? No, why? Because the purpose of the correction is not the demeaning of any of the people who are talking. The purpose of the correction is for the rightly working in order of a church service. So if I were to say, hey ladies, can you please either take your side conversation outside if it's a timely matter, or could you wait till the service is over, that doesn't sound insulting. Nobody thinks I'm misogynistic, I'm not installing the patriarchy in the church. All I'm saying is, for the benefit of the group, whatever that side conversation is, shouldn't be going on. That is one interpretation of what Paul's doing. However, there's another one, and I'm not gonna tell you which one's right, because Jim, between you and me, I'm really not sure. I deep dove, I literally read every commentary I own on this chapter. I think it was a dozen scholarly commentaries. Just so I, you know what Pete, I wanted to drill down every possible angle. I'll give you one that I think is completely false, but I'll give it to you if it makes you happy. There is a small minor group of scholars who think that verses 34 and 35 are not original to Paul's writing, that were added later by scribes when the letter was being copied to make the church more male driven. Okay, all right, Sharita, let's run with this. How much evidence is there? Here's the facts. Every single existing manuscript of this letter has these sentences in it. So I don't know where you come up with the idea that you can write it as a scribal edition when there is literally no copy of this manuscript that does not have these letters in it. So I gotta rule that one out. I'm telling you, I don't think that's valid. It is valid that group of ladies were having a side convo and that got disruptive. Here's the other valid option. In the previous section when Paul was giving instructions to correct the use of prophecy, do you remember what he said? He said one at a time and the others should evaluate what the prophet says. Remember that? That's the very last bit of speech that is mentioned prior to verse 34, is the group, whoever the group is, that is evaluating the gift of prophecy being used. The other possible interpretation of, because the problem is is the letter does not tell us what kind of speech the women were engaging in that is disruptive. So we have to try to look for clues or admit we just can't know for certain. And I'm telling you, I can't know for certain, but I think there's two good options. Number one, the side convo option. Number two, wives were participating in the group that was evaluating prophecy and they were thereby interrogating their own husbands in front of the church. Now, you have to understand that this is written in the first century, not 2025. We don't really live in a honor shame culture the way ancient near Easterners did, but we have remnants of it in our culture today. So what, like let's just say, is there something that my wife could do that would bring dishonor to me as her husband? If you live in the Middle East, there's a lot of things, right? If you live in the Middle East or even the Mideast almost all the way in India, almost all the way in China, the way a wife acts in public directly reflects on her husband's reputation. We don't have much of that in our society today because we're an individualistic society. But let me give you a crazy and extreme example. If you were out on a Friday night, if you were out to dinner and you passed by a local watering hole, a local bar, I don't even know where they are, but just pick one. And there's my wife at the bar, acting very drunk, hanging on other men, kissing other men, flirting with other men. Does that make me look bad? It's very interesting. Some of you are just not even going to give me a facial expression today because you don't want to take a stance. I get it. Is it bring my wife's reputation down? 100%, nobody's doubting that. But does it bring my reputation as her husband down? I think yes. I think it does. And you got to choose either A, why on God's green earth is my wife doing this? Like somebody's going to go, Bill, what are you doing at home? That's making your wife go to the bar, right? Like that's an honest question. Let's just ask it. Or B, why did you not pick her up and bring her home? Right? Like either way. So in this culture, a wife's actions outside the home bring direct disrespect to the husband. We don't have it today, but they had it then. So you have to read it with that lens. So if we're in an active church service and let's just say Jim because he's looking good today. Jim stands up and he gives a word of prophecy. And then Lisa stands up and she starts picking his prophecy apart and she starts interrogating him and maybe even belittling him. Doesn't that begin to make you question their marriage? That's the other very realistic textual interpretation of what's going on here. What I can tell you without a doubt is there's some sort of speech being done by women at Corinth that is disruptive to the church service. And the reason I know that marriage is in play is the second sentence. They are not allowed to speak but must be in submission. Anytime the Greek word for woman and the Greek word for submission are in the same sentence, it refers to marriage. So let's handle this one because nobody else wants to comment on it anyway. Let's go. Submission does not mean subservience. Ladies, that was your amen moment. I'm going to tee it up for you again. Submission does not mean subservience. There you go. They do live. That was a smart man right there. You're a very smart husband. Well played. Jim, you missed your opportunity. Sorry. You have to and I get that the word submission in our very individualistic third-wave feminism culture does not ring well ladies in your ears. So let me change the word out for you. How about instead of the word submission, willingly choose to follow your husband's leadership? It sounds a lot better for our ears, doesn't it? Right? So what if I change this out and I just read it that way? They are not allowed to speak. But should willingly choose to follow their husband's leadership as the law says. I think bristles your neck a little bit less, doesn't it ladies? Because in our concept in our culture, the word submission is usually installed by a powerful authority and the person submitting doesn't get choices. The simple reality is obedience can be demanded from authority, but submission can only be granted. And how do I know that? Has anybody ever heard of the kid like you tried to get him to sit in chair, you force him to sit in a chair, you force him to sit in a chair and then finally kids like fine, but I'm standing up on the inside. That was me as a kid. If my parents are watching you can amen in the chat because that was me. Submission is an act of the will. It requires your given choice. No one can make you submit to something. They might be able to force you to obey something that's forced from authority, but submission can only be granted. So when you like for instance, do we submit to God? Yes, but does God override our free human will as Christians? Do we no longer have the ability to choose things that are non-godly? No, of course, we don't. That's why we have discipleship. That's why we grow. So my submission to God is an act of my will. My wife's submission to me as her husband is not installed from my position. It is granted from hers. That is what biblical submission is. Now, why does a wife need to follow her husband's leadership to understand this one? We got to go all the way back to Genesis 3 in the garden. What happened in the garden? Temptation came and temptation. So Adam is created. Oh question. Don't let me forget Adam. What about the churches that have women pastors? Is it not being obedient to the Bible? Fantastic question. Everybody go ahead and say, ooh. Okay, so I'm going to say something that's not popular, but it's biblical. So I don't care. I will never attend a church if the senior pastor is female. And here's why. I absolutely believe in women in ministry. If you don't believe me, come to our leadership meeting at some point. I'm pretty sure ladies make up 66% of the room. All of the voices that I listen to are women. So I am not anti-woman, but I am very pro-bible. And the job description given for elders begins with he must be the husband of one wife. There is no way to read that sentence. Is they must be the spouse of one spouse. You can't read it that way. It's not the way the Greek language works. The word husband is specifically male. The word wife or woman is specifically female. They made no distinction where you could cross the line. So in order to have a woman as the senior pastor or my role in the church, You have to be able to interpret she must be the husband of one wife in a way that makes grammatical sense to first century Greek, not our century here. Does that mean that I don't believe women should be in leadership? No, that is completely false. I 100% believe that women should be in leadership. I'll raise you one and say something else that's unpopular. Because there's a lot of people right now out online saying women shouldn't be allowed to teach. Well, if we had a woman in our church who had a PhD in ancient Hebrew, you better darn well believe I would be having that woman's Bible study. I'll be sitting there taking notes because she has learned something that I have not learned. But whatever that Bible study is that happens inside of our church happens under the authority of the elders of our church. Therefore she is teaching under the leadership that God has placed in charge. I don't have a problem with this. That's my stance. I cannot support a church where the woman is the senior or lead pastor because I don't believe she's qualified biblically to be an elder because the word elder starts with husband of one wife. Now, yes, we could totally have the debate. Does that mean one wife at a time? One wife ever? Does it mean one wife before they got saved or after they got saved? I mean, there's all these little rabbit trails you can go down. But directly to the questioner, I would say I believe my interpretation of the text as it is written, if you can find a way to interpret husband of one wife to include women, but until you can do that, a woman is not allowed to be an elder. Now, let's answer the why question. I see that other question Mel. Just give me a minute and then I will come back to it. The reason that the church is supposed to be led by men is we go all the way back to God's design for creation. It was Adam's job to lead creation. He was God's regent. It was Adam's job to lead Eve. A lot of people like to believe that Eve was tempted and then later like found her husband. That's false. Adam stood next to his wife the entire time she was tempted and the greatest failure is Adam's because he remained silent and he allowed his wife to be attacked. So men, that's still on us. The silence of Adam in chapter 3 is the single greatest male failure in the Bible in my opinion. Because it says, and who was with her is right there in chapter 3. So don't get the idea that the serpent found Eve when she was like away from Adam and tempted Eve while she was alone and then she later shows up to Adam. No, that's just not what happened. Adam stood right next to her. He listened to the serpent twist God's Word and did not stand up for his family. So that is why when you look at chapter 3, the consequences of sin, Adam's consequences are greater than Eve's. But I got to point out something and ladies, you're not going to like this next sentence so just pause. The consequence for Eve's sin in Genesis chapter 3, it says to Eve, your desire will be for your husband. That word desire literally means the desire to dominate and control. It's used in chapter 4 and sin is crouching at the door and it desires to have you. Same exact Hebrew word. The consequence for Eve's sin is that women have a natural inborn propensity to dominate male leadership. And the consequence for Adam's failure is that all of us men are still responsible to lead a corrupted creation. And now we have to learn how to earn the right for our wife to follow us. And it's in this tension that you and I live and it's in the same tension that happened here. And that's why I like the interpretation of prophecy angle because it would be inappropriate to have a wife interrogating her husband if her husband is supposed to be leading her. Now, does that mean that my wife does not pick apart my sermon material when we're home? No, she totally does. And I talk through large sections of passages with my wife because she is brilliant and her theological mind is incredibly great. But my wife can't be an elder in the church because she's my wife. That does not mean she's not important. Now, this gets me to the next question here. Is there a separate text in the Bible delineating order in worship? Are the roles of women in a worship service mentioned? So, two questions. The first is there's not really specifically a singular text that says this is the right order of worship. We have several texts that allude to the elements of worship. Worship elements are worship, prayer, the communal studying of God's Word. Those are the elements but not necessarily the order that they are to go in. The second question, are the roles in a worship service mentioned? No. But I would like to just point out if you're looking for examples of powerful female leadership in the Bible, at the end of the Exodus story when Moses and Aaron, and what was his sister's name? Miriam. When they lead the children of Israel out of Egypt, who led the worship along the way? Miriam did. Go back and read the text. And Miriam led all of the women in the children of God in praising God. So, Miriam led all of the women in the nation and they together led the praise of God. So, if I'm looking for a singular passage that establishes worship leading as an absolutely biblical value that women should have, I don't have to go any further than the Exodus story. But you could go into judges. Deborah was a judge. You could continue through. I am not saying that women do not have a leadership place in the church. Please do not misunderstand me or clip it on Instagram to make it look like I'm saying something I don't say. What I am saying is I don't believe it's biblical for women to hold the role of an elder and it is in context of the culture, disrespectful for a woman to interrogate her husband and belittle him in front of the whole church. I think we would still be uncomfortable with that today. I mean, you're going to be wrong. I would sit back with some popcorn and watch Miss Lisa tear into Jim because I think that would be a good time. But it would also lead me to question how strong they are, right? So, can we see now that when we look at this text, it's not a blanket muzzling of women. You have to look at the culture and context. Clearly, whatever the speech was that was going on was bringing disorder to worship and possibly disruption to the marriages within the First Corinthian Church. Then that's why if they want to inquire, so if women want to learn something, they should ask their own husbands. Now, what's interesting is, leave that up there just for a second, Eric. Can an unmarried woman have a husband? I'm sorry, that wasn't the trick question. Can an unmarried woman have a husband? So, if this verse says they should ask their husbands, doesn't it make sense that the previous verse that says women might just be wives? Because an unmarried woman cannot go home and ask her husband. Simple. They should ask their husbands. And then, for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in the church. I just want to hit this word disgraceful. In an honor shame culture, whatever the disruptful speech was, was bringing shame to the families of the women that were involved in the speech. So, I can't tell you exactly what it was. I tend to lean away from the side convo thing, because even today, if you guys got into side conversation and needed to exit the room, I don't think we would find that shameful. Now, we live in an individual culture, not a corporate culture, but I don't think that would be considered, you know, if you got a text and you got a sick family member and all of a sudden you got to grab your bags and go, I don't think anybody here finds that to be disrespectful. If Jim stood up to use his gift of prophecy and then Lisa laid into him for it in front of everybody, I can see how we would find that to not only be disruptive, but shameful to their marriage. So, does everybody understand? We are not talking about blanket muzzling of women. Next one. What would be different if the meeting was a group of men only? Melanie, can you help me? I'm not understanding what the questioner is asking me. Oh, would the entire chapter apply differently if there were only men in the church? Absolutely not. Men do not get any pass to disobey scripture that women don't get. So, if men, and keep in mind, when we're talking about the using tongues and interpretation, there's no gender there. That's the whole church, men and women. When we're talking about the incorrect use of prophecy or even weighing prophecy, there was no gender there. That was the whole church. It's only here where Paul is keying in on a very specific type of disruption that did have a gender difference, but the first two corrections remain. So, if the questioner is saying, if it was an entire group of men, would men be allowed to use the gift of tongues inappropriately? No. Would we be allowed to use the gift of prophecy inappropriately? No. Next question. What if the man's wrong, is the woman supposed to be submissive? This is a great question. To the questioner, thank you. Number one, let's put a couple limits on women's submission to their husbands. Yes, I just said that. Let's put some limits on it. Number one, a woman is never required to submit to her husband if he is leading her against the will of God or the word of God. Just in the same way that I am not required to obey the United States Constitution or the government if it attempts to get me to violate Scripture. So ladies, if your husband is trying to get you to do something that is in direct violation to the word of God itself, you are to not submit. And then you are to call me. And that's really not a joke. That's what the elders of the church are for. Where is the... And I think we forget that Christianity is a communal affair. Lots of people like to say, wait a minute, then you're just leaving a wife to go home to a possibly abusive or unsafe situation. No, I'm not. She calls the elders and the elders gather the men and we show up and we correct the man. That's how that works. We are a community and we are... We are a community and we are... If there's anything else shepherds are supposed to do, they're supposed to look after the whole flock, not just the flock with Y chromosomes. So in this example, I would say the number one greatest limitation on a woman's submission, a husband should never lead his wife to violate the word of God. Secondly, I don't believe a husband should ever lead his wife to violate the conscience of their marriage. Like let's take something that's not nearly as important, right? Let's say if you lie about something, you get a financial benefit, whatever it is. I don't believe a husband should ever lead his wife to lie for money. I just don't. Like if you're going to lie to get out of a $45 parking ticket, then your integrity is worth less than $45. If you're going to run your wife and push her to lie so you can save 45 bucks, your wife's integrity is less than $45. I don't think you should do that. So no, I do not believe a woman... Now, the questioner only said wrong and you didn't say on what scale I'm supposed to measure the wrong. So I'm using the biblical scale because that's a scale that applies to all men and women appropriately. And then I would say I don't think a wife should obey her husband if he is leading her to do something that is unsafe. If he is leading her to do something that is physically putting her in a position of harm and that could be either physical or not, that's not a husband's job. So basically, when the husband steps outside of his role as provider, protector, and priest, and shepherd, you should probably stop leading your wife because you're not doing a really good job yourself. Like you've got a whole lot to work on there. Let's fix that. However, it is the church's job and the men in this church, it is our job to come alongside those men and help those men to lead in such a way. Again, women, your submission can only be granted. It cannot be demanded. If your husband is not leading you in such a way that draws submission out of you, then that's the conversation you should have with him. Honey, I know the Bible requires me to want to follow your leadership, but you're leading right off a cliff and I don't think that's really smart. And trust me, gentlemen, if you don't have... If you have too big of an ego to listen to your wife's intelligent, thoughtful conversation, like there's plenty of times my wife's decisions are much wiser than mine. That's a good leader listens to his people. The next question is biblically, can divorced people serve in the church? Thank you for asking this because it allows me to get back to that. Here's what I'm going to say. There is a lot of nuance to what does husband of one wife mean and different denominations will interpret it differently. So you can have... And for instance, should we also then count, did the divorce happen pre-conversion or post-conversion? Is it just to hold someone accountable for actions that they took when they were not living according to the word of God? Or once they become a Christian, now the Bible directs their life, do we start there? There's a lot of those individually nuanced things that are very difficult for me to like paint with the big brush from up here at the pulpit. So what I'll say is each individual church does need to discuss those issues. Each individual church needs to decide how they apply because what we should do above all else is we have to be consistent. You can't like have one set of rules for Rod and Jim and Mr. Tom and Steve, but then on this side of the church we're going to have a different set of rules for Vic and Mr. Ray and Mr. Crook and Gary in the back. That's not godly. Everybody plays by the same rules. However, I will say there's a lot of these issues that require nuanced interpretation and I don't think it's my right to try to dictate for every church what they should do. As our elder team, we talk through these issues. And we had to when we were deciding to add a new elder to the elder team. What does husband of one wife mean in this church? What does that imply pre-conversion, post-conversion? Is it okay as long as you don't have multiple wives at the same time? All of those things are important. And then what about submission within intimacy? Should a woman do things they are not comfortable with? Fantastic question. Let's just deal with all the uncomfortable stuff at one time. This is where I talk about the conscience of your marriage. I don't think, and let me say it this way, we'll make everybody really uncomfortable and I'll talk only from the lens of my marriage. The questioner is specifically asking about submission in intimacy. Your wife is not a hooker, right? Your wife is not a toy. She is not something that is owned. She is precious. She is valuable. She is also an image bearer of God, right? So let's not forget that females are just as much image bearers of God as males are. So what I would say is no, I do not think it is a right godly position to force a woman into a position where she is unsafe or uncomfortable. I just don't think that's right. I think, now I'll also say this. What exactly happens in the marital intimacy of your family is between you two. You're going to create rules. And those rules don't have to be the same for the next couple who's sitting next to you in church. So we need to be really careful when we start painting with wide brushes. Like there's this group of people think that this is acceptable and this group of people think that this is acceptable. And if you're in the room and you're not married, you're just uncomfortable and that's okay. But I think within a healthy godly marriage, if you're being intimate intellectually, you're speaking your mind to one another. If you're being intimate emotionally, you're responding to one another and you're being honest about when you do this, it makes me feel this way. When you do this, it makes me feel this way. Then when you reach physical intimacy, you're combining intellectual and emotional intimacy. And then nobody asks, but let's just go for it. Spiritual intimacy is actually below physical intimacy. It requires even more vulnerability to lay hands on one another and pray for each other, to disagree theologically about the scriptures. So if your intimacy starts intellectually, that should lead to emotional, that should lead to physical, and that should lead to spiritual intimacy. But no, I don't believe a husband should like just heavy-handedly, again, you cannot force submission. You can only force obedience. That's not what the Bible said. Also, that line that says wives submit to your husbands, ladies, that was given to you, not to us. The Bible doesn't say husbands make your wives submit. That's not the sentence. It says wives willingly choose to submit. All right, last question, and then hopefully I can move from here. What did Paul mean in 1 Corinthians 2.12 by not allowing a woman to teach or exercise authority in the church? Fantastic, this is 100% related to this text. There are a couple of interpretations, and I can't go into them all, so I'll just give you the highlights. In that passage, you've got a couple of choices. The first is, what does it mean to teach? Does that mean any and all teaching? Does that mean the authoritative teaching of the word of God? Does that mean a woman's allowed to teach to pray, but not to read the Bible? So there's a lot of nuance in the word teach. The other nuance that no one wants to talk about is, what does the word man mean? What is a man? Because in our culture, and in the first century culture, those are two very different ages. Man became men at age 12 in the first century, whereas typically in our culture today, it means 18. Does that mean we're allowed to change it, or do we need to use the 12-year-old? Or what about in the Babylonian Empire? Do we use there a judge of what is a man? So what I would say is, here's my interpretation of that passage. You can take it or leave it, and I welcome you to disagree with me. If God's design for creation is male headship, which I believe it is, even in the midst of Genesis chapter 3, where women are designed and you're importing a desire to rebel against male leadership, my job to lead has not been taken away. It just makes my job a little bit more challenging. I need to be more nuanced in my approach. I believe that God's design for the church is elder leadership, plurality of elders, not one. There is no king but Jesus. No pastor is a king. Plurality of elders. When it comes to the elders in the church, I submit to them. Us as a group is the highest authority, not me as the pastor. They hold me accountable, and they correct me when necessary. And I seek their counsel when we make decisions as a group, because that's where the authority of the church rests. So in my view, the word teach in this verse is the public proclamation of the word of God at the gathering of the body for worship. That's what I believe the verb to teach in the Greek is. Which means in 1 Timothy 2, 12, he is not saying women are not allowed to teach at all. He is saying that the role of the elder teacher is reserved for men, because the role of elder is reserved for men. That does not mean you can't have a woman small group teacher. That does not mean that women... Now again, it depends on how you want to interpret man. If you're going to interpret man as 18 years old, then that means a lady could teach youth group. But if you're going to interpret man as 12 years old, then that means men, you got to step up and run all the kids programs and all the youth and everything else. So in the practicality, what that word man means really makes more of a difference than what that word teach means. We just don't generally debate it. But my interpretation of that passage is that this job right here, the public proclamation of the word of God in the meeting of the church is to be done by an elder who is to be male. That does not mean that ladies can't teach Bible studies. They can't teach small groups. They can't help new believers. For instance, if a woman is not allowed to teach, who's supposed to teach the young woman who just got saved how to pray? How to read her Bible for the first time? How to submit to her husband, have a healthy marriage? In fact, why would then Paul say older women teach younger women if women aren't allowed to teach? So there's a lot of nuances there, but that's my take. And I'll give you a perfect example. If we had a woman in the church who had a PhD in something that was biblically relevant and I wanted to have her teach a small group or something like that, I would go to the elders and I would say, Mr. Jim, Mr. Bill, we have a woman who's got a PhD in ancient Hebrew, whatever, whatever. I think what she has learned would be very valuable for our church. I'd like to host a Saturday thing. We'll go, okay, well, you know, here's the notes. I've already talked with her. Here's what we're going to present. The elders sign off on it. And now that woman is operating under the authority of the eldership of the church. I don't see how that's a problem. The elders still are overseeing the ministry of the body of Christ. And we're using that authority to empower women to do ministry, not restrict it. So that's all of that. Ladies, you're not being muzzled. There's a ton of context here. And if you don't understand Genesis 3, so here's my summary of those two verses. Women were disrupting corporate worship in a way that A, involved talking and B, dishonored their husbands. Can I tell you exactly what that speech was? No. But in context, tongues was restricted to regain order. Prophecy is restricted to regain order. Whatever this disruptive speech was that was being done by women in this church at this time is being restricted to regain order. It is not a carte blanche muzzling. So now, let's take a look at all of the next verses. 36. Or did the word of God originate with you? Pause. Because a lot of times when we read this in English, we think that Paul is talking to the women, right? He's saying women shouldn't be allowed to teach. Women have to go ask their husbands. Or did you think the word of God originates with you? It's very easy if you break it up to feel like this correction is only about the women correction. I think that is wrong. I think this, so he gave three corrections. Correct the way tongues is used. Correct the way prophecy is used. Correct whatever the disruption that women were doing. And now when we get to 36, we're back to the whole church. We're back to going, hey, all of you Corinthians, did you think the word of God originated with you? Are you the only people that it has reached? The Corinthians were positioning themselves in a way that they claimed their own apostolic authority that they get to define all the roles in the church for themselves. And Paul is having to say, y'all are only one church, right? He's mentioned before as in all the other churches. And so here he's saying to the Corinthians, did all of the word of God originate with only y'all? Do you have all the authority to write all the rules you want? Go ahead and rewrite the tongues rule for you. Go ahead and rewrite the prophecy rule. Go ahead and rewrite the disruptive woman rule, whatever they were doing. No. The Corinthians thought they were above all of the other Christians. And that's why that do you think the word of God originates with you? Are you the only people that it has reached? It's because they were deciding to rewrite the rules of Christianity for their own church so they could have it the way they want it. That sounds a lot like our country today. Individual churches rewriting the word of God to get where they want the church to go. That's assuming apostolic authority. And Paul's saying, I'm sorry, that's not your job. That's not your role. You weren't called to be an apostle. I was. So take a look here at 37. He follows it through. If anyone thinks they are a prophet or otherwise gifted by the Spirit, let them acknowledge what I am writing to you is the Lord's command. But if anyone ignores this, they will themselves be ignored. Here Paul's kind of putting the big foot down. He was called by the risen Jesus to be the apostle to the Gentiles. He was trained for three years by the risen Jesus to be the apostle to the Gentiles. The Corinthian church cannot just assume apostolic authority because it wants to. The elders and deacons of Catalyst Community Church cannot just assume apostolic authority to rewrite the word of God just because we want to. I, as the pastor of this church, cannot assume apostolic authority to rewrite the Bible just because I want to. And do you know how I can prove that to you? Because the last 20 minutes have been some of the most uncomfortable minutes to sit in this seat. If I had the authority to rewrite the word of God, I would have just erased that verse out that said, ladies, be quiet so we wouldn't have to do all of this. But I don't get that right. Mr. Bill and Mr. Jim don't get that right. The rest of the deacons in our church don't get that right. The first Corinthian church also is not allowed to just all of a sudden assume that they're allowed to have an authority that overrides Paul's, and honestly, overrides the word of God itself because he is writing under the unction of the Holy Spirit. They could not do that. My iPad died, so hang on, I'm just catching up over here on my phone. So yes, they thought they were above Christians. They were assuming their own apostolic authority in 37 and 38. And notice he says here, yeah, let's go. Can I have verse 38, please? But if anyone ignores this, they will themselves be ignored. Now take it forward, give me 39. If all my brothers and sisters be ignored. No, it should be if anyone ignores this, they will themselves be ignored. And then yes, therefore, my brothers and sisters, right, that's all y'all. That's that word, Adelphos or Adelphoi. It means all believers, everyone who believes in Jesus. Be eager to prophesy and do not forbid speaking in tongues. This is interesting. At the end of a section where Paul is trying to rein in or bring in a disruptive use of spiritual gifts, he has to tell them, but be eager to do it. Why does he do this? Is this a contradiction? No, I don't think it's a contradiction. I think Paul is prewriting a protective or a warning against avoiding overcorrection. Have you ever seen somebody who tries to correct something and they go too far and they overcorrect, the pendulum falls, swings way too far that way? I think what Paul is doing here, and that's why I say this whole latter section is actually a summation about the whole chapter, not just about women being quiet. The word of God did not originate with the Corinthians. They do not possess apostolic authority, but they did possess the responsibility to install the writing of Paul correctly in their church. So he's writing this to say, listen, be eager to prophesy. Just follow the rules. Be eager to use the gift of tongues in interpretation. Just follow the rules. Ladies, do not disrupt church, but follow the rules. See? I think what he's doing is he's reminding them not to overcorrect because what would be really easy, Ray, is if we were in the first Corinthian church and you and I were some of the chief baddies of overusing prophecy or overusing tongues, it would be super easy for us to go, well, if I just don't use that gift, then I'm not going to violate the word. And then the gift gets squashed out. I think what Paul is saying here is not, I think it's just a protective measure to not overcorrect the restrictions of the rest of the chapter. And then he concludes here, and here's verse 40, but everything should be done in a fitting and orderly way. This is the end of the chapter. That's why, ladies, I am supremely confident. I'm not supremely confident in exactly what the disruptive speech was, but I am absolutely confident that the speech was disruptive to orderly worship because the correction is coming in an entire chapter that's correcting disorderly worship. So he brings the whole argument to a close. Now, I'm going to go ahead and answer the question because somebody's probably teeing it up already. Can we use verse 39 to debunk cessationism? So remember, I started the whole series. There are two views on the gifts of the Holy Spirit. The cessationist view is that the miraculous gifts have ceased and they do not operate today. The continuationist view is that the miraculous gifts do continue today. Somebody's looking at this and Paul says, do not forbid speaking in tongues. Can you use that verse to debunk cessationism? No. As a continuationist, no. You cannot use it because why? Because this is a letter of correction, not instruction. He is reminding them, do what I told you. Don't overcorrect. I do not believe that anyone is right in using this to try to argue against cessationism. I think there are other arguments that we could have a good debate, but I'm going to side with the cessationists on this one. You cannot have this verse as a blanket like proof text to just debunk cessationism. Well, Paul said, don't forbid speaking in tongues. Yeah, he did, but he did it in an entire section about orderly worship and correcting wrongs. So if that question comes in, I want to answer it up front. I am in the continuationist category. We have people in this church in the cessationist category. I love everybody. This is not an issue that's going to make me disfellowship from you, but I want to be fair to both sides of the debate. I don't think you should take this as a blanket instruction because I'll be honest. I have some dear friends who are cessationists. I have some very good debates and discussions with them. I have never had a cessationist try to teach me that tongues has been forbidden. I've never heard it that way. They say it's ceased. It's still operating, but when you use this verse to argue against a cessationist, you're kind of arguing against a straw man of their position. The cessationist is not trying to forbid speaking in tongues, so therefore, this verse doesn't apply to them. They have other arguments and they're a little more nuanced and that's fine, but I don't think you can go there on this one. So yeah, I got a couple of minutes left. So yeah, Mel, go ahead and give me the rest of this. So we have a couple of other questions that came in about submission and since I have a few minutes left in the service, Mel, go ahead and give them to me. I will do my best to offer quality answers in a timely fashion. But does everybody understand? And I just got to say, ladies, hopefully you were able to, you know, gear down just a little bit. It's not nearly as offensive as it sounds. How can women discern the difference between their natural desire to dominate slash lead the husband and recognizing that their husband is not spiritually leading their home? Is it supporting text for how to act? Thank you to whoever the questioner is. Thank you. You're making such a powerful point. It is not dominating your husband to recognize that his leadership could be lacking. That's not. To say, man, I want to be led more is not a statement of domineering. Now, if you take over and try to guide him or control him because he's not leading the way you want, then you are domineering. But this is what I would say. Here's the discerning the difference. If the questioner is in a marriage in which their husband is not leading them spiritually enough, there's two questions I would ask. Number one, when are we going to sit down and have an appointment? Because I think it's a broader conversation. But number two, it is very logically possible that your husband is just spiritually lazy. I mean, I go to men's fraternity all the time. I sit around that table and the men are very vulnerable. And listen, we have our ups and downs too. We have good seasons where we feel like, man, I am just chasing after God. And we have low seasons where I feel like I am messing up. And that's where we have to have other men around us to call us to grow and to keep us there. So one of my first questions to the questioner, whoever is asking this, is what is your husband's relationship like with other Christian men? Is he surrounded by men who are going to call the deeper things out of him? Is he rubbing elbows? Iron doesn't sharpen iron by sitting in a drawer all by itself. Iron sharpens iron by getting close enough to scrape and scratch and heat and friction and sparks and all that kind of stuff. Yes, I want the friends who are going to poke at my character until I am angry at them. Not the friends that are like, well, that's just Bill. You know, he is ADHD. I guess that is Melanie's problem. We will just let her deal with it on her own. No. And remember, I was the guy. Remember the truck story? In Virginia, I had a friend and I sat in the pickup truck with him and I said, listen, we have to have a conversation and you are either going to like me or hate me in about 30 seconds. And if you need to hit me, that is okay, but I have got to say something. I don't like the way you talk to your wife in public. And if I don't like the way you talk to her in public, God knows what you must say to her in private. So either we need to have a conversation or my children are not allowed to be around your family because I am not going to have my son growing up watching a woman or watching a woman be disrespected by her husband the way you disrespect your wife. Yes, I said those exact words to another grown man who was bigger than me. But that is what men are supposed to do. We are supposed, and here is the cool thing about men. Ladies, yes, we are aggressive, but we respond well when called well. If somebody were to walk up and they are just to smack judgment and they are supposed to jawjack, that doesn't do well. So I would say, ladies, the first question to the questioner is, what is your husband's relationship like with other Christian men? Is he surrounding himself with men who cause him to chase after Christ or is he surrounding himself with men who cause him to be lazy and chase after worldly pleasures? Because trust me, there is a lot of that out there. There is a lot of distractions, right? There is like a $1.5 billion power ball that is just a huge distraction. The best way I could tell you to do it is look at your husband's relationship with godly men and then you have to have a very real conversation and say, I want to follow you. The Bible calls me to follow you, but your leadership is making it hard to give you my submission. Can we... Like listen, have an appointment with me and my wife. Anybody who has met my wife for more than 30 seconds knows that she is not a pushover of a woman. My wife is a tiger. She is a powerful woman. You do not lead a tiger by forcing it around. That doesn't go well. You can ask my children, we do not have powerful head-to-head battles. That does not mean my wife and I are not both powerful head-to-head people. But if you are going to fight it, you are going to fight the 2 of us shoulder to shoulder. Not head-to-head. So, and if you need to, let me know on your connect card. We can go out for a double date. We can go to dinner. It does not have to come to church and feel like a counseling service. Let's go get some food. You can pay for dinner and we can provide counsel. I think that's a great... I think that's a fantastic... Mel, isn't that a great opportunity? Yeah, we should do that. But here is the bigger picture. Because we have an individualistic society, people keep their marital problems at home instead of bringing them to the church. The whole role of elders and shepherds is to help people grow spiritually. The problem is you keep your dirty laundry at home and you don't let me know about it so that I can't do anything but pray for you. And sometimes I can't even pray for you because you are hiding. You put the church mask on when you go to church. And you pretend like everything is okay when you yourself know it's not. So then it's your own pride and it's your own ego that keeps you trapped in your own spiritual problem. All right, last question and then we'll bring it in. Back then, were women as educated in the scriptures as men were? If not, wouldn't that explain the reason for them to inquire later to their husband? Great question and thank you because I should have mentioned this. So it's very easy to assume that. Here's why it's not as easy to just make it a guaranteed yes. In the Hebrew culture and in the Greek culture. It was a mother's job to train up her children. Which means, and for instance, how do I know that's true? Because when Paul talks about Timothy, his ministry protege. Pop quiz, who trained Timothy for ministry? His grandma Eunice. His grandmama and his mama trained Timothy to be the protege to the apostle Paul. So I would say, did women have as much access to education as they have today? No. Does that mean that women were not spiritually strong or scripturally knowledgeable? No, it doesn't because we have clear scriptural evidence that it was a woman's job to teach the scriptures at home to her children. Which means she had to learn them. Now, yes, another thing that nobody brought up and I'll take it since you're going to lay it up for me. Discipleship should be happening in your homes, not at the church. Husbands, if your wives need to grow, it's your job to fix the problem. It's your job to fix you so she can follow you. Notice I didn't say it was your job to fix your wife. It's your job to fix you so she'll choose to follow you. Parents, if your children need to grow, then you have to deal with that together as a couple. If you feel incapable of discipling your children, then you need to come to me and Pastor Tyler and the elders of our church. That's our job. It is my job to make you capable of doing your job. Does that make sense? I know that was a, we went into a lot of different rabbit trails, but I'm glad that you asked the tough questions because I wanted you to see all the different ways that this could apply.