Good morning. Sorry, you would think I do this a lot. I would check it first. I apologize. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here. For all of you who are joining us online as a part of our online campus, whether you are watching this service right now in real time at 10, 18 a.m. or if you are watching this service after the fact, you are still a part of our family and we love you and we appreciate you being an extended part of our online campus. We are going to be continuing our teaching series talking about the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Now, if you were not with us last week, this series is a little bit different because this is what we call a Q&A series, which means as we are talking through the text today, you are going to be able to ask questions in real time. Even if you are on our online campus, you will be able to ask questions in real time and have those questions relayed to me. So for all of you who use the Catalyst app, please open the Catalyst app on your phone. If you are joining us online and you're actually in the chat on your phone, our online chat host is going to drop a link there that you can click and you can actually open the question and answer form just in a regular web browser. But for those of you who have the Catalyst app, if you open the Catalyst app, you'll see right underneath the announcement graphics, the first one says Catalyst Live, the second one says Sermon Q&A. Click on that Sermon Q&A and it is automatically going to open the form that you need to ask any question that you would like to ask this morning as we go through our sermon. So people online, you either use the app or use the link in the chat. Those of you who are here in the room, please use the app. This Q&A form, you can use again and again and again. So you're not limited to asking one question, but as you ask the questions, they will be fed to the back where Miss Donna and my wife are sitting. They'll receive the questions and then they will be able to relay them to me. I just need to remember to turn the auto off on my phone, Jen, so it doesn't like go to sleep in the middle of service because that would be very unhelpful. So while everybody's getting their Q&A ready to go, let me give you the key thought that's going to hold all of this series of messages together. God gives supernatural gifts to his people for the building of his church. God gives supernatural gifts to his people for the building of his church. And for some reason, my foot has decided that it wants to hurt today. So I'm going to do my best to be comfortable and do good at the same time. Jerry, if we can only do one, we'll just see how it goes. So our text today, oops, except it was super helpful if I opened the right sermon, wouldn't it? I was about to preach last week's sermon and Jim knows that one ran way too long. Let's not do that again, right? Right? In fact, I do, I do, everybody was here last week. I do want to apologize. I think a 45, 55 minute sermon, that's a good time to get into a topic. Jen, an hour and 10 minutes is just stupid. Let's not do that again. So today we are looking at 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and we're going to start reading in verse 12. So 1 Corinthians chapter 12. I want to read 12 to 31 and then we will go back. We'll chop it up and we will get into your question. So here we go. 1 Corinthians chapter 12 begin reading in verse 12. Just as a body though one has many parts, but it's many parts form one body. So it is with Christ. For we were all baptized by one spirit so as to form one body, whether Jews or Gentiles, slave or free. We were all given the one spirit to drink. Even so the body is not made up of one part, but of many. Now if the foot should say, well, because I'm not a hand, I don't belong to the body. It would not for that reason stop being a part of the body. And if the ear should say, well, because I'm not an eye, I don't belong to the body. It would not for that reason stop being part of the body. If the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing be? If the whole body were an ear, where would the sense of smell be? But in fact, God has placed the parts in the body, every one of them, just as he wanted them to be. And if all were one part, where would the body be? As it is, there are many parts, but one body. The eye cannot say to the hand, well, I don't need you. And the head cannot say to the feet, I don't need you. On the contrary, those parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable. And the parts that we think are less honorable, we treat with special honor. And the parts that are un-presentable are treated with special modesty. And while our presentable parts need no special treatment, but God has put the body together, giving greater honor to the parts that lacked it. So that there should be no division in the body. But its parts should have equal concern for each other. If one part suffers, every part suffers with it. If one part is honored, every part rejoices with it. Now, you who are the body of Christ, and each one of you is a part of it. And God has placed in the church, first of all, apostles. Second, prophets. Third, teachers. And then, miracles. Then, gifts of healing, of helping, of guidance, and of different kinds of tongues. Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles? Do all have the gifts of healing? Do all speak in tongues? Do all interpret? Now, eagerly desire the greater gifts. And yet, I will show you the most excellent way. Small Bill and Ted reference right there. So, for those of you who are kids in the 80s, you got that. Everybody else, just let it ride. So now, let's go back to the beginning, and let's just remember where we're at. So, the book of 1 Corinthians was written by who? The Apostle Paul. What is the name of the city that he wrote the book of 1 Corinthians to? Corinth. And what did we learn about Corinth last week? They're a wicked city. They're a new city, right? They were rebuilt after they rebelled. The Romans destroyed it. They rebuilt it. And they're a wicked city. They're where sailors go when they get off the boat to spend their money on all the things you think sailors want to spend their money on. That's the book of Corinthians. So, this is a correction letter. And that's super important because everything we read has to be read through the lens of Paul is correcting wrong things. Many times when Christians approach the topic of spiritual gifts, they just automatically assume, well, Paul's just teaching to teach, and so I just need to take everything he says at absolute face value as if he wrote it to me. That would be wrong. The Bible's written for you, but it's not written to you. He's writing the letter of correction. First question. If Christians have these gifts, what powers does Satan have? Interesting question. I would say that if you really wanted to understand the nature and the character of Satan, you would first need to do a biblical study of what the Bible describes about angels overall. There was a fantastic book written late 70s, maybe early 80s by the now-past Dr. Billy Graham on angels. I have a copy of it at home. It's literally like a pinky level thick. So now that I've made it all the way in school, I start measuring books by which finger. And if you have to go to more than one finger, girl, that's a textbook. But Dr. Graham's angel book is literally like a pinky level book. It was very small, very simple read. And he goes over and he just collects all the different things the Bible says about angels. What they can do, what they can't do. What I will say is what the Holy Spirit gives to humans has no relationship to how God is created angels. Angels are created beings of a completely different kind. Angels are spirit beings that can sometimes manifest physically. Human beings are physical beings that possess a spiritual nature. So on a very base principle, we are completely different types of creatures. But also from a spiritual power perspective, the Holy Spirit doesn't give extra gifts to angels. So I would argue that if you're looking for what power can Satan have, Satan could in reality have any power that you can witness any angel using in scripture. If you wanted to argue that Satan had a power that wasn't referenced in scripture, I would then have to question what is your authority that you're seeking? Like what book is telling you what angels or demons can do if it's not the Holy Writ of scripture? Second question, how do we know which spiritual gift we have? This is a great question and it's probably going to get asked every week and it should get asked every week. The simple answer is there's not a simple answer. How do we know what your spiritual gifts are? First thing is this, your spiritual gifts are not your natural talents. So if you think your spiritual gift is your natural talent, rule it out. Your spiritual gift must be something that is given by the power of the Holy Spirit, third member of the Trinity. The Holy Spirit is also God. It must be something that happened in your life that did not exist pre-salvation. That's a natural talent, not a spiritual gift. It must also, I would say the greatest thing to start with is the list of spiritual gifts that are mentioned in scripture. This is not the only list in Corinthians. There's one in Ephesians, there's one in Romans. Just go back to last week's sermon in the app or on your TV and I know I referenced all those references in last week's message. The other thing is your spiritual gift cannot be a natural talent. Your spiritual gift must be something by God's power, not yours, and it must be for the benefit of the church, not you. Your spiritual gifts are not there to make you rich. They're not there to make you wealthy. They're not there to make you famous. Spiritual gifts are given by God the Holy Spirit for the growth of God's people to church. Now the other question is, well how do I know that? And here's where I can only speak from my personal experience. You need to have people in your life who are more godly and more mature than you are, who you can go to and seek counsel and receive correction. And if you can't take both of those from the same person, it's the wrong person to ask. Right? I'm not asking you to go to your Holy Spirit bestie friend. I'm not asking you to go to your Holy Spirit chief leader. I'm asking you to go to your Holy Spirit coach who will tell you like it is whether you want to hear it or not because you need to hear it. You have to have people in your life who will say the tough things and say, hey Jim, I saw you doing this. That was great. Lisa told me you did this. That's not great. Right? You've got to have those people and then you go to that person and say, hey man, I am earnestly praying and seeking of what gift the Holy Spirit has given me to serve the church. Will you pray with me? Will you let me see things you see in me? Then you go back to that person. Jim, I think God's doing this. Do you see this? Does the Holy Spirit in you resonate with what I think God is doing in me? That's how I, and just be perfectly honest, that's the only way I know I have a teaching, a spiritual gift of teaching because something happened after I got an education and my wife has seen it. I literally, y'all, did not know where I put down my iPad after I came to church today. It was sitting in front of me in a sound booth. But sitting up here, I can tell you the cover of Dr. Billy Graham's Angel Book. I can tell you what font is on the cover. How can I do that? I have no clue. We leave church today. I'll put my car keys down and I'll have to ask my kids where they are. But in this moment, I can remember everything I've ever learned. I think that's a spirit-born gift and my wife will tell you it definitely doesn't happen Monday to Saturday. So, the best way to know your spiritual gifts is have people around you, go to the word, ignore all your natural talents. So, let's take a look here. We get into the first point that I believe Paul is making here is that the Holy Spirit creates diversity within unity. And this is super important. Here's your quote for today. Unity does not require uniformity. Unity does not require uniformity. We are the body of Christ. We are not the singular organ of Christ. So, watch what he says here. This is verse 12. Just as a body, though one, meaning the body is a unity, it is a unified thing, it has many parts. The unity of your body is the diversity of its members. The unity of the body of Christ, we the church, is made up of the diversity of its members. But all its many parts form one body. Diversity creates our unity and unity is not there if the diversity is not present. So, it is with Christ. And then this is how he establishes the diversity within unity of the body of Christ. For we were all baptized by one spirit so as to form one body. We are all saved by the blood of Christ. But interesting, he notes that we are baptized by one spirit. That's because this whole section is about spiritual gifts. This whole section is about understanding how the spirit is supposed to work in the church. And remember, he's correcting the Corinthians misuse of spiritual gifts. And you get a letter like 1 Corinthians and it is a letter of correction. And Paul spends a good three chapters telling them what to do. It's because they weren't be doing what they supposed to be doing. So when we open with a section like just as one body, just as a body though as one has many parts, but all its many parts form one body for we were all baptized by one spirit. And Paul's argument for why we should have diversity within the unity of the body of Christ is the working of the Holy Spirit. It is the Holy Spirit that creates the diversity that should be present within the unity of the body of Christ under the headship of Christ the King. Everybody with me? Then he references a couple differences here. Whether Jews or Gentiles, whether slave or free, we are all given one spirit to drink. Stop. I'm going to address this because everybody's going to freak out if I don't talk about this. So Jew and Gentile keep in mind all the original Christians were Jewish followers, right? But as Gentile Christians began to get saved, Jew or Gentile refers very specifically unambiguously and unapologetically to racial discrimination within the body of Christ. Racism in church is not new. It was there in the first century 15 years after Jesus rose. So don't think that racism is something new that exists in our country and the Bible doesn't talk about it. It's right there whether Jews or Gentiles because all the very first Christian leaders were Jews. But then as Gentiles started getting saved, hey Barry, I know you know this Gentiles don't live according to the way Jews live, right? They don't live by the same laws. They don't live under the same rules. They have different practices. Now keep in mind Gentile literally means everybody not Jewish. So it's just a blanket category. It's not even like we try to define race now with colors, right? Black, white, brown. That to me is also so insulting. The number of beautiful ethnicities that are within people who all share the same skin color. Just take white for instance. You can have Irish, you can have Scottish, you can have Polish, you can have British. All of those ish-ish-ish-ish make better foods, right? And those ish-ish-ish fight with each other. Then you could go into someone who has dark skin. The country of Africa has, or the continent of Africa has many countries in it. Trust me, I was there. Kenyans consider themselves very different from Tanzanians who consider themselves very different from Ugandans who consider themselves very different from Afro-Caribbeans. Polynesians, we have brown skin but we don't look like Puerto Ricans. So this concept of race within the body of Christ is not new. How do we understand it? Paul said it right here. For as we were all baptized by one spirit so as to form one body. I don't care what your skin color is. You're my brother. You're my sister. I don't care what your ethnicity is. You know the coolest thing for me when I went to Africa last year was sitting in a church where everyone else is speaking a language that I don't understand. So I'm in the middle of Tanzania. I'm in the middle of this church service. There's 150 pastors in this room and they are lighting it up in Swahili. The only word in Swahili that I understand at this point is amenna. It means amen. That's it. That's all I got. When they're in the middle of the worship and they're like amenna, I'm like amen. That's all I get. But you know worship still feels like worship. The spirit still saturates the voice of his people because I don't need to understand their earthly language to be related to them by the body of Christ. This is how we get over racial injustice. It does not matter if you're black, white, brown, Asian. It doesn't matter if you know how to cook with salt and butter. It doesn't matter if you eat weird stuff on your toast. Right? British people, I'm looking at you. Beans for breakfast, I don't get you. It doesn't matter if you cook with so much spices you got to sweat when you eat it. We are all brothers and sisters because Paul says here we are all baptized by one spirit. But I'm not done. Let's get uncomfortable again. Slave or free. Does this verse imply the Bible is approving of slavery? No. No. Thank you for saying that out loud. Right? No. You should not use this verse to attempt to do it. Will the Bible approve of slavery? No. The Bible was born in a culture where slavery was normative and so he had to address how should people who are slaves and people who are free relate to one another in the body of Christ. They should see one another as brothers and sisters because they were baptized in one spirit. You want to talk about human rights? There was very little human rights in the first century church under the Roman Empire. In fact, there's been a lot of buzz in the last, I would say, five years about in historical circles. The entire western civilization is built on the backs of Christian ethics. You just look. The way men and women were treated in the Roman Empire, the way slave and free were treated in the Roman Empire and the rights that women have today, the anti-slavery movement was run by Christians. Period end of story, whether it's here or on the other side of the pond in Great Britain. We are not going to say here that Paul is justifying human slavery where one human owns another human. That's not what he's saying. In fact, he's saying the opposite. Regardless of whether you are a slave or one who is not a slave, you are of equal stature in the body of Christ. Christ erases our ethnic differences and it erases our economic differences. That is what he is saying. Don't get it twisted. And we were all given one spirit to drink. Even so, the body is not made up of one part but many. The spirit is given to all of us. That does not mean all of us are the same. I made that point okay? All right, let's move forward. The second thing he says here is this. Differing gifts do not assign value or belonging. And this is why you got to understand this is a letter of correction. The differing gifts do not assign value or belonging. Look at verse 15. Now if the foot should say, because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body, it would not for that reason stop being part of the body. Stop. This seems so elementary when you think about your physical body, right? It would be super great if my right foot were not attached to my body right now. So that my right toe could realize it is time to work and not time to whine. But my foot does not get a vote about choosing to disconnect from the body. You know what happens if the foot disconnects from the body? Well, just think. Right now we pull out a machete, we cut my left foot off. Just boom. What's going to happen to the rest of my body? I'm going to be in a really serious health emergency really quick. The foot is going to go necropic and die. Why? Because it's being connected to the rest of the body where life comes from. It's being connected to the rest. The foot doesn't have a stomach. The foot doesn't have a heart. The foot doesn't have lungs. The foot has all the benefit because it's connected to all the other pieces. And if you cut my left foot off, my left foot is disconnected from everything that's supposed to keep it supplied with nutrients, with oxygen to keep it healthy, to keep it growing, to keep it healing. This is why I don't get Christians who think it's okay, well I'm spiritual but not religious. I'm a Christian but I don't go to church. If you are, let's just be honest, all of you are joining us online. I love you. You are connected to our bodies. So the next statement I'm about to say does not apply to you. But if you get offended by it, pray about it. If you use our online campus to stay disconnected from the body of Christ, if all you do is watch, you don't engage, you're not involved in the messaging, you're not rubbing elbows with other Christian believers, then you are a part of the body that's disconnected from that which gives life. Because you can't be the stomach and the lungs and the heart and the veins and the arteries and everything else that helps to take you grow. There is no such thing as a healthy Christian who is disconnected from the body. Now notice I added an adjective, right? Do I believe that the person on an island can pray to Jesus and be saved? 100% I can. Because Jesus' salvation is for everyone. But do I believe that you can be a Christian and obey the word of God and be disconnected from the people of God and be healthy? No. You cannot be disconnected from the body and claim to be healthy because you're not the stomach and the lungs and the heart and the veins and everything else. We use our online campus to create connectivity, not to give you an excuse to disconnect from the body. How you use that tool is up to you. We provide it for you to give you everything to engage. I know because I see the connect cards. There are many of you who are sitting in this room who will switch over to the online campus when you're not here in Wilmington. But there are two other groups of people on our online campus. It's not just those of you who do both. There's one group of people who physically don't live close enough to attend here. I see that question. Let me mix this in it. There's one group of people on the online campus who don't live physically close enough to attend here and we are their primary connection to the body of Christ. Great. Take the responsibility. Get in the messaging and go out to coffee with Christian friends where you live to stay connected. But there's another group who do live here in the greater Wilmington area but for one reason or another unable to transport themselves here to our Wilmington campus for either health or other reasons. And that online campus right there, that little monocle that just stares at me from the sound booth, that's their only connection to the body of Christ. That's why we live stream every week. It's not so that we can have a TV show and be famous. Because we're going to make as many opportunities to keep people connected as possible because connectivity is where health comes from. How do we overcome the comparison demon when watching other believers thrive in their spiritual gifts and we aren't? Right? Can we just everybody collectively go, oh, yeah, that's a good question. Whoever asked that question, kudos. To be perfectly honest with you, I don't know. And I'll tell you why. Is that comparison demon lives on my shoulder every day? I constantly am I running the church good enough? Do we have enough people? Am I leading the correct way? I see other churches doing things. I'm like, man. And I constantly have to come back to one statement that my friend, Pastor Ken from Gloucester says. So, Ken, if you're watching, probably not. This one's to you. I was talking to Pastor Ken a few years ago when an apologist who I very much respect had a very public and very horrible moral failure. And I was crushed. I was truly emotionally upset that someone that I looked up to as a giant in the faith could be so ungodly in their character. And that takes me back to that Pastor Rick never let you give, take you where you can't keep you. And when I was talking to Pastor Ken about how upset I was, he said, Bill, you don't have to be upset. And I said, I know, but not just for me, but all the other people who now he is defaming the name of the kingdom of Christ because he can't keep his character in line with his calling. And he says, yeah, but you know what's really great? You know how I get past this? I said, what is it, Ken? And Pastor Ken said the greatest three words ever, not my servant. That apologist is disappointing to me, but he failed the king because we're all servants of the same king. And when he said that to me, I went, God, I hate you. And I ate some more hash browns, but he's so right. That's not my servant. So I am not owed the explanation for why that person got their gifts. I'm not owed the stewardship of whether they use their gifts well. So I shouldn't allow myself to be jealous of the gifts that that master gave to that servant because you know what? Casey, I don't have to answer for that person's gifts. Praise Jesus. I only have to answer for the gifts he's given me. So the best way I know how to, and I'm not saying it's foolproof and I am not sitting you I get it right every day because there are totally days that I drive past bigger churches going, God, what am I doing wrong? Why is my church not exploding with growth? Well, I could not be doing anything wrong or I could be doing everything wrong. But what I'm doing right or wrong has nothing to do with what that random X other pastor is doing right or wrong because that pastor and me both serve the same master. So that's the best answer I could give you that question. So we say, well, the foot can't be disconnected because it's not healthy. It would not stop for a reason to being part of the body. And if the ear should say because I'm not an eye, I do not belong to the body. Do you notice that the ear is now saying, well, because I can't do what I can do, I must not be important. Here's where I got to say, remember the context. I think Sharita, I think Paul is addressing an attitude that was already present within the Corinthian church where people were getting into this gift comparison mentality and then ranking one another based on what their gifts are. So when he says here, because I'm not a hand, I don't belong to the body because the eye I'm not an ear. I don't belong to the body. I think he's actually addressing something that's wrong in the first century church and telling them what they should be doing right. Next question. Doesn't the body include all Christians, not just one church? Yes, completely. So how are we to work with Christians in other churches? So answer your first question. Yes, the global body of Christ is all churches, all Christians everywhere. In fact, in collegiate writing, they call that the great Catholic church, not the Roman Catholic church. The Roman Catholic church is a specific organization. The big C word Catholic church means all Christians from all time who ever lived. So the answer to the part A of the question, doesn't the body include all Christians, not just one church? Yes. Part B. So how are we to work with other Christians in other churches? In as many ways as we can. We should not be an isolationist church. Now that does not mean that we're going to agree doctrinally with every church. Totally. The reason why there are denominations is because we have come to different conclusions about what the implications of scripture mean. So we should partner with churches in as many ways as we possibly can figure out that does not violate the doctrinal integrity of our church or their church. I don't want to partner with a church that has a different doctrinal stance than we do because here at Catalyst, I try to make us all be play nice with everybody who believes things. Right? As long as it's not a major salvific issue, we are free to debate. We are free to discuss. We are free to disagree within our own body. You just got to know not every church is led like that. Right? There are pastors who say this is right and the other two views are wrong. And if you're going to be a part of this church, you have to hold that view. If we as a church were to partner with that church, I would not want our flexible theological stance to end up causing division in that church. Because then our church is hurting that church. I also would not want our church to steal sheep from somebody else's church. Right? I don't want to do that. That's not what I want to be about. So we should absolutely work with as many Christians and as many churches as possible in as many ways as possible that doesn't cause harm to either church in the partnership. So because I'm not an I, I don't belong to the body, would not for that reason stop being part of the body. I think here in verses 15 and 16, he's addressing the problem in the Corinthian church by explaining that unity does have diversity. And just because God uses you in this way, but God uses Aaron in a different way does not mean that you guys are still not related, nor does it establish your value. Your spiritual gifts do not establish your value. Just like the eye is not more valuable than the ear, just because they do different functions. The body requires both functions. It is your connection to the body that creates your value, not what you do for it. Then we get to verse 17, differing gifts are for the function of the body. If the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing be? If the whole body were an ear, where would the sense of smell be? But in fact, God has placed the parts of the body, every one of them, just as he wanted them to be. Stop. I think that one's pretty self-explanatory. We as the body of Christ, the collective group of us as Christians, we are given different gifts for the function of the body as a whole. And I just got to complain here for a minute, because there's a lot of churches, and my wife and I have experienced some of them, and I've watched friends experience other ones, who think that because I am the pastor of the church, that I am somehow supposed to be the multi-tool of all gifts and all skills and all everything all at the same time. Please understand that that's just simply a lie. That is not true. And I will not allow you to treat me that way, because you know what that ends up doing? Jen, what it does is it creates this expectation that the pastor, some, has to be superhuman, and some, I want us to be good at every single thing he touches. Let's just be super honest, and my wife's about to amen the next thing I say. There is a reason that I am not on the finance team of the church. Yep. And there's Bill Crook, right? There's a reason. There's a reason Mr. Bill Crook and Mike and Donna and all you guys who are, that's your brain, right? There's a reason they do that, and I don't do that. Y'all, I have an allowance at home to make sure that our family finances work right. I have a budget at work to make sure our family finances, right? That's just not a gift I have. That's why our body has other people, men and women who are gifted in that area, who they excel there, and that's their job, right? There's a reason why I don't work in the nursery, because every time you hand me a baby, it cries. I'm not saying that that's not coincidental. Literally, the only babies I have ever held who I could get them to fall asleep are my nieces. Literally, every baby in church, every time I do a baby, remember the last baby dedication I did? What happened? The moment you hand me the baby, baby lights up. I don't know if Bill just has some sort of anti-baby magnetism or what, but that's not a gift I have. So it's not something that I should do because it benefits the body better when Tom Thomas goes down to that nursery, because babies love Uncle Tom's shoulder, and I don't know why, but that's a gift. So take it for what it's worth. We should stop ranking one another based on our skills, our talents, or our spiritual gifts. And especially when it comes to spiritual gifts, you don't get a vote on what your gift is. So how is it somehow supposed to establish my value? No, your gift merely illustrates your function. It does not establish your value. You are valuable because Christ died for you. You are valuable because the spirit indwells within you. You are valuable because you are a part of this body, not because of the function the spirit has given you. Next question. What is the implication if I disregard God's prompting to use a spiritual gift? What is the implication? So Melanie, is the question or asking what happens if I use a spiritual gift in a manner other than as directed? Well, okay. So what happens if the spirit prompts me to do something and I use my own human will and I stop doing that thing? Well, that's really easy. You harm the body of Christ. If you're the immune system and you go, oh, I just don't want to today, the whole body gets sick. If you're the eyes and you're like, oh, I don't want to today, the whole body walks into a brick wall. If you're the ears and you're like, oh, I just don't want to today, the whole body can't hear the voice of God. If you're the teacher and you're like, oh, I'd just rather have a board meeting. I don't want to study. The church is missing out on the meat. If you're the worship leader or on the worship team and you're like, oh, I just don't feel like dealing with those people. The church, like, I mean, I'm trying to be super honest. If you've never been on the worship team, let me tell you something. It is hard for them to get up here and plow the ground in worship when everybody's staring them with deadpan faces. Right? Anybody that's ever been on the worship team, that was your amen moment. You missed it. Right? When you sit up here and you lead worship and you're looking out at people and there's no joy on their face, you got to downshift and you got to gear up. You got to have enough joy to overtake that there's not joy coming back at you from worship. That's a real thing. And then when the worship team members are like, oh, I don't want to sing that song today. It's not my favorite song. I don't care if it's your favorite song or not. Does the body, let's just be honest, does the body of Christ have to check with you for its need for corporate worship for something that you like? Right? There's a reason my wife is now the worship leader and not me. I'm super unapologetic. I don't care what you like. You have a job to do. Get up there and lead the people, whether you feel like it or not, whether you're sick or not. If you can't sing, play something. Why? Because the body deserves worse. Let's just put it on me. If I don't feel, what would you do? Let's just be perfectly honest. What would you do if I just decided, you know what, Jim, I don't want to study this week. I'm just going to go online and buy a sermon. You know there are websites that do that, right? You can go buy the sermons from any number of very famous pastors in America. It's like short story. I was hanging out with my wife and my mother-in-law one day. We were driving somewhere. I don't remember where. We were in Florida. I'm in the back seat. My wife is in the passenger seat and my mother-in-law is driving. And my mother-in-law starts telling a joke that she heard her pastor say on Sunday morning from his sermon from the pulpit. And she tells the joke and I finish the punch line. And she goes, how did you know that? I said, mom, because that's Pastor Groeschel's sermon from two weeks ago from LifePoint Church in Iowa. And at the time, I was listening to his podcast. So I listened to his sermon from two weeks ago. She goes, no, that was my pastor's sermon on Sunday. I said, did he say this after that joke? And I quoted the next line of the sermon. And she goes, yes. I said, he bought Craig's sermon and read it. Would you consider that me doing my job? Right. Would you be pleased that you're paying for me to have a salary to be at the office to do that work, to do that spade work, to do that ground work, to do all that study work for me to deny the church the work that you've invested and just go buy a sermon? No, you wouldn't. Absolutely. Say it louder, Micah. No, you wouldn't. You expect me to do a job. Right? Nothing wrong with that. I'm not the only person that serves the church. So why is it, why don't we expect that of all of our servants? No, show up and do the work. Why? Because it's the body that's denied when the church stops serving itself. The body as a whole becomes unhealthy. So he says here, he talks about the eye. Oh, notice the end here. And I don't know. I think this is 16 or 17. The eye cannot say to the hand, I don't need you. And the head cannot say to the feet, I don't need you. Again, Casey, I think this is Paul addressing something very serious that was happening in the first Corinthian church. And I can totally see it. So here's my speculation. Here is my informed pastoral speculation. I think the body of Christ in the first Corinthian church was denying the non-miraculous gifts like teaching, like preaching, because they're like, well, why do we need that if we have tongues? Why do we need that if we have prophecy? And why do we need that if we have miracles? I can totally see that happening. In fact, I've seen it in Pentecostal churches today. They lean into those miraculous gifts as if those miraculous gifts can supply everything else the body needs. That's like saying, fine, we got a great set of lungs. We got the breath of the spirit in us, but we're not going to bother to eat any meat. You will still starve to death. Right? I think when he's talking about the parts of the body trying to say, well, we don't need you. I can totally see a church that is just totally strung out on the idea that the miraculous gifts are all we need, denying the simpler gifts or the non-miraculous appearing gifts. Like hey, maybe it's time to study and teach good stuff. Maybe it's time to shepherd and care for God's people, be a true gift of a pastor, the gift of an evangelist from Ephesians. Why do we need evangelism? We have miracles. Why do we need pastoring? We have tongues. Why do we need teaching? We have prophecy. I can totally see that happening. I think that's the undertone of what's here in 16 and 17 is he's having to correct the first Corinthian church or the first century Corinthian church because they're leaning into one set of gifts and they're making the church malnourished and anemic by going for the spirit gifts and not going for the non-miraculous looking ones. Just real quick, if the spirit is the one who gives out the gifts, there is not a difference in value or importance between a miraculous gift and a non-miraculous gift. Both are given by the same spirit of God for the same purpose to benefit the church. Then we move down to 22. Spirit born unity requires shared responsibility. Spirit born unity requires shared responsibility. On the contrary, those parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable and the parts that we think are less honorable, we treat with special honor. And the parts that are presented are un-presentable are treated with special modesty. While our presentable parts need no special treatment, but God has put the body together giving greater honor to the parts that lacked it so that there should be no division in the body, but that its parts should have equal concern for each other. Stop. So here he's talking about the comparison of spiritual gifts within the first century church and he's specifically describing different groups of gifts, right? Now he's using the physical human body in which there are parts that are presentable, there are parts that are non-presentable, there are parts that you cover before you step out of your bedroom, there are parts that you cover before you step out of your house. Question, if Paul is having to correct Corinth for misuse of gifts, does that show how important the teaching gifts are? Why is teaching gifts, why is teaching of gifts and growing them not common in churches? So this is a great question that I think is addressed in the very next section of scripture. So Mel, just wave your phone at me and remind me to come back to this question because this actually preemptively getting at what I think he's going to talk about in a minute. So he's comparing the different gifts, right? And he's saying there are certain gifts that are presentable, there are certain gifts that are special. What I think he's comparing is the function of the gifts, right? There are certain gifts that are listed in his groups that are functional, teaching, evangelism, apostles. There are certain gifts that are miraculous, healing, prophecy, tongues, and there are certain gifts that seem to be just normative, administration, right? Has there ever been a church controversy over the gift of administration? Probably not. You know why? Because there's probably not a line out the door saying, God, can you please bless me with the gift of paperwork? I just don't see it. But you know what? If we didn't have people in our church who knew how to make sure we followed all the right laws of our country, who knew how to make sure we filed our taxes correctly, you know, the very first church that Mel and I had the privilege of leading, my very first day when we walked in the door, the church was being hounded by the IRS for $26,000 because prior to my tenure, they didn't pay their payroll taxes correctly. And now the church was coming after the IRS was going to seize the property because the church didn't file their taxes correctly. Pretty sure we want people with the gift of administration doing their jobs right. Even though that doesn't look like a miraculous gift, nor does it look like an up on stage gift, right? Most people are not expecting the church treasurer to come up here and pull out his giant 11 by 17 spreadsheet and get down on busy sell, sell three being divided by B 17 shows you the percentage of core value net to date, right? But praise God, we have we have men and women in this church who can do that because we would not be up here and the lights would be not on if that gift were not there. So just to give you my modern day take on three different groups of gifts, we've got function gifts that don't ever come on stage. You've got ministry gifts that you do see, but aren't necessarily miraculous. And you have miraculous things that we don't see all the time, but they get lots of attention as soon as they come out the box. All of those gifts come from the same spirit. All of those gifts are designed for the functioning of the same church. And look at the very last verse in this section. If one part suffers, every part suffers with it. For if one part is honored, every part rejoices with it. You cannot detach your spiritual gift from the body for which it is designed any more than you could take your lungs out of your body and pretend that you're still healthy. That's where he's getting at. And again, since Corinthians is a letter of correction, I think he's correcting what they were doing there. Now let's look at going down to 27. Are different gifts make us equal in relationship, but not in function? Question, do you think spiritual gift inventories and tests are helpful? All right, so I'm just going to irritate everybody when I say this. No, I don't. And here's why I don't find them valuable. In fact, I was literally just talking to a pastor friend of mine from Arizona about this last week. So Kenny, if you're watching the sermon, I love you too. I have taken several spiritual guest tests over the years. And they do a good job of using the gifts that are mentioned in Scripture, but it's how they measure that I have a problem with. They try to identify your spiritual gifts based on your natural skills, shape and talent. And I have a problem with this because my natural skills, gifts and talents are not the source of my spiritual gifts. He is the source. So why is it logical that we can use something like your natural skills and abilities to determine what your spiritual gifts should be? Your spiritual gifts, the only way, the actual spiritual guest test inventory should be asking the rest of the people in the church. Hey guys, what do you think Jim Boucher's spiritual gifts are? Don't say it out loud. And just in case you're wondering, the gift of sarcasm is not in Scripture. Daggum. Neither is the gift of a good looking jaw. What would not be right is to take an inventory of Jim's human knowledge, his learned skills, his natural talents and the things that Lisa lets him do. And then use that as the metric for how the Holy Spirit must be moving in Jim in our church. Can you see why that's a... I don't think that the idea of a spiritual guest inventory is wrong. I think the function of how they usually go is what's wrong because it's built on a faulty premise that my natural skills, talents, abilities or passions, right? Just because you have a passion for music doesn't make you a musician. Just because you have a passion for learning doesn't make you a teacher. And just because you have a passion for X doesn't mean the Holy Spirit has given you Y. So no, I dislike spiritual gift tests because I think they use the wrong metric. The right metric is what does the body... So here's what I would say. If you want to know what your spiritual gifts are, come stand up here next to me and let's ask the church. Church, what do you readily receive from this person? Do you know my biggest confirmation that I have a spiritual gift for teaching? You. The number of people who come up to me and say, I've never heard somebody preach it like that. I learned something new every Sunday. That's the body of Christ reflecting back at me through my service what God does through me. That's the greatest litmus test. I will just tell you right now, it's also very scary. So until you want to stand up here beside me and let everyone in the church say to you what they receive from you, that's the only test that I find viable. Because what we're really asking is Claudia, Jen, Jerry, Lisa, Jim, Alex. If I were to bring Aaron up here, if I were to bring Bill up here, if I were to bring Kenzie up here, what does the body of Christ receive from that believer? And is that... Again, just because you receive it from that believer doesn't mean it's Holy Spirit. You've got to rule out everything that's their natural skills and abilities. So here's the rub. If you're not serving the body of Christ regularly, how will the church find your spiritual gift? How will the church reflect what the Holy Spirit is doing in your life if all you do is sit in a chair or watch on a screen and you don't actively put yourself into service? If the function of the gifts is the betterment of the church and you're on the sideline, not in the team, you're likely never to have full Holy Spirit confirmation of what your gift is. That's the best way I can answer that question. So then we get to, our different gifts make us equal in relationship, but not in function. Now you are the body of Christ. Remember corrective letter Corinthians. You are the body of Christ and each one of you is a part of it. That again makes me think that they were sidelining people saying, because you don't have this, you're not as good as us. And God is placed in the church first of all, apostles, second, prophets, third, teachers. Then miracles stop. So that person's question, if Paul is having to correct Corinth for the misuse of the gifts, does that show how important the teaching gifts are? Yes. And here's why I think so. This is a letter of correction. He's correcting the misuse or the misapplication of spiritual gifts during worship in a church environment. That's the context. So when he tells them, you got to stop sidelining people because certain gifts are being considered less useful than other gifts. And then he uses ordinal numbers. This is the only time in scripture he uses ordinal numbers to rank spiritual gifts. You got two choices here. The first is he is not ranking them by importance, but by value of function. So let's just take the gift of healing for instance. If someone were to walk up in front of the church right now and someone had the gift of healing and they prayed for that person and whatever their ailment was, was beautifully, miraculously, God given healed. The body of Christ is benefited because we get to witness the healing, but only the person that is actually physically healed is benefited by the exercise of the gift, right? Because only that person is healed. Whereas if an apostle goes and starts a whole brand new church, everyone is equally benefited. If a prophet verbally speaks the words of God, if a teacher teaches the deep things of the word of God, the whole body is benefited. I think the gift here, apostle, prophet, and teacher, I would argue they're all what the questioner is calling teaching gifts. Yes, an apostle in our modern day plants churches. In order to have the biblical role of an apostle in the first century, number one, you had to learn from Jesus himself, you had to be called by Jesus himself. You want to claim that that is you today. I know there are times in certain church circles where they use the word apostle as if it's equal to the biblical office in the first century. I submit to you that that's really a misuse of the term. When we look at what it took to be an apostle in the first century, there were some very clear things and you had to receive your calling and your teaching directly from Jesus. Remember, the gift of apostleship still exists today. The gift of pioneering new works and building new bodies. Today we call them church planters. Today we call them pioneering pastors. We come up with all these really cool brand titles. But basically it's anybody that pioneers a new work of the body of Christ that benefits the whole body. Let's speak the word of God and apply it to life situation, either now or the future. And teachers teach the things of God. All three of these gifts have the broad aspect of benefiting the whole body when they're applied. Then he says, then miracles, then healing, helping and guidance. To me, he is correcting the misbalance that was in the Corinthian church. You guys are valuing these miraculous gifts like healing, like miracles. You're forgetting the gifts like starting new ministries, the gifts of speaking and applying the words of God to the church's situation, the gifts of teaching the fundamentals of the faith. You're skipping those for the shiny new toy. And I think there are still denominations that lean that way today. There's a reason there's a specific denomination in the U.S. that I can't work in because they want to say that everyone has to have this one specific miraculous gift. And if you don't have that miraculous gift, you're not filled with the Holy Spirit. I just got a massive problem with that because of what he says here. Watch this. You notice the answer is supposed to be no, right? So all of these questions, they imply a negative answer. Are all apostles? No. Are all teachers? No. Do all work miracles? No. Do all have gifts of healing? No. Do all speak in tongues? No. Do all interpret? No. Do you hear the negative connotation in all those things? Why is he saying that? Because if we are the body and we are to benefit one another as a group with diversity within our unity, all being baptized and anointed by the Holy Spirit, then all of us can't be any one function because the body requires all the functions. And then he ends with this. Now eagerly desire the greater gifts. A lot has been made. Yeah, exactly. Right. Miss Claudia is looking at me like, why did he just say greater if everybody's equal? That's what your face just said to me. I don't know if that was what was in your head, but that was the face question. Yes. That's exactly the right question. I don't believe he means greater in the sense that the gift itself is of greater value because that completely is antithetical to the entire argument he's building here. I think he means greater in the application of the gift. My gift of teaching is used for the whole body of Christ. If I had a gift of healing, it would only be used for individual person question. If there were people who said that they did not need the natural gifts because of the supernatural gifts, does that mean that we today, the body of Christ in the 21st century are forsaking the miraculous gifts in favor of so-called real gifts? Yes. I think that's a fantastic question. Now again, I told you last week, I'm a continuationist. I do not believe that the miraculous gifts mentioned in scripture ceased to be available. However, there is no argument possible that there is not a historical difference between the frequency of their use in the first century and their frequency of use throughout history or today. However, I would submit as a continuationist that the frequency of use argument does not establish that God can't do it or has stopped doing it altogether. He has definitely changed the frequency of which he uses it. That's his prerogative because he was always the gift dealer. But I do not believe it applies. And then the follow-up question, are the natural gifts and abilities not God-given anyway? So yeah, here's where I got to make that distinction. I have a certain amount of natural intelligence. Like I was a smart kid. I was a smart aleck of a kid, right? My mom and dad are going to go back and watch this sermon. That was their amen moment from their living room in Boynton Beach. I was one heck of a smart kid and I had a really bad attitude about it. My intelligence does not give me a spiritual gift for teaching. The spiritual gift must be from the source that is the Holy Spirit. Now one could say, but Pastor Bill, don't you think he gave you that gift because you had natural intelligence? No. Because I think God knitted me together in my mother's womb and he made me who I am and he uses the tool he made the way he made it. Because what you're saying is, are my spiritual gifts dependent on my natural abilities? No. I think my natural abilities are built by the same God who issues my spiritual gifts. Neither one started with me. It started when he built my soul in my mother's womb, in my view, at the act of conception. At the moment of conception, when my soul became a living, breathing human being, or a living human being, not breathing, but a living human being, God put natural abilities into me. Now yes, if he's the dealer, then he's going to give me natural abilities that would compliment my spiritual gifts. But remember who God used in the Old Testament when the prophet wouldn't listen. If there is not someone in the house whose natural skills go with a spiritual gift, he will raise up someone he needs for the benefit of his body. Next question is, public versus private gift of tongues. If God gives us gifts according to his will and those gifts are for the benefit of the body, then why when we get to chapter 14, it is supposed to be that there is a gift of tongues that is a private prayer language. And if there is a private prayer language, then do you all have it? This is an amazing question. Thank you to whoever asked this. So if you did not grow up in a Pentecostal church, let me give you the 411 on the basics of what this question is asking. There is a debate within Pentecostal theology about two different types of the use of the gift of tongues. One is the public use, which is person A stands up, speaks in an unknown language. Person B stands up, translates in an unknown language that benefits the entire body. The B view or the alternate view or the private view of the gift of tongues is it gives the individual believer the ability to pray to God without having to go through your brain filter of putting your feelings into words. Again, praying through an unknown language. That's the verse where the Holy Spirit prays in groans and utterances. So the question I think that the questioner is asking is, if the purpose of the function of the public use of the gift of tongues is for the benefit of the body, then does that mean that the private prayer language of tongues could benefit everyone? Yes. And I think this is where that debate on our Pentecostal side of the table is going to be had. Because Paul makes it very clear that not every person gets every gift, right? And I think that's right here. Do all speak in tongues? The applied answer is supposed to be no. So then why do we feel that there is a private prayer language versus a public use of the gift of praying in tongues? I think this is largely where the crux of that debate lies. My take is every person filled with the Holy Spirit. Yes, that's a guarantee. Nobody's arguing that one. Then it comes down to, does that mean that every person has the ability to use the private gift of praying in tongues? I have to say no, because the implied answer of this verse says that, do all speak in tongues? Now the antithesis answer could be that everybody has the ability, but nobody actually pulls the tool out and uses it. That's another way to translate that verse. It's not, does everyone not have access to the gift? Does not everyone not actually try to use it? That could be a way that that's translated. But I think the bare bones reading of it is he's trying to correct where he thinks that everybody's not one gift. Second question, is intercession, meaning the private function of tongues, not for the betterment of the body? I think that depends on your application of it. If the questioner is asking, does the private use of the gift of tongues and the ability to pray without the brain mouth filter benefit the entire body? I say yes, and here's my example. And just so you understand, I'm talking from personal experience. I have the private gift of praying in tongues. I use it frequently, just in case it bothers anybody. God has never once ever asked me to use that gift in a public setting. However, I have used it in a church setting. When you are praying to cast a demon out of another human being, and you can't see the spiritual landscape of what's in front of you, the ability for the Holy Spirit in me to pray directly to God without having to go through my brain mouth filter of praying in English or my really bad broken Spanish, because the Holy Spirit can just pray direct, That is an incredibly useful application of the private use of tongues that doesn't ever make it into this church worship setting. Because keep in mind, the entire section of 12 to 14 is the public use of church worship. So that is a gift. If I am trying to pray about something, and I'm like, God, I do not understand, I can pray via the private use of the gift of tongues, and my heart is still feeling the emotions of what I'm trying to pray about, but my brain doesn't have to stop and create the English words to describe the way my heart feels. Now, I'm talking from practicality, I'm not talking from scripture, but I'm saying how practically it works in my life given this gift, and then follow up. If as you said, the apostle Paul explicitly made it clear that not everyone has the gift of tongues, does that mean the idea of if you don't have the gift of tongues, then you don't have the Holy Spirit is a direct doctrinal heresy. Yes, whoever asked that question. That is exactly the direct implication of what I am saying. If the question here, do all speak in tongues, gives the implied answer in Greek of no, then the denomination that requires every single person speak in tongues in order to prove that the Holy Spirit lives within them is exactly against scripture. And that's not the only verse, right? There are plenty of verses that talk about. Now, the way they're going to get around it in that theological circle is they're going to make a distinction between the original sealing of the Holy Spirit and the infilling of the Holy Spirit, and they're going to make a distinction between those two words, and that's a super fun debate if you want to have that on their side. But to the questioner, yes, I would say that if you try to directly require every single believer speak in tongues, or they don't have the Holy Spirit within them, you are not just outside the bounds of scripture, you are against the direct teaching of scripture. I know that means I'm taking a stand, but there's no way around it. Paul's saying what he's saying, and I can't apologize for the way scripture reads. If you want to debate it with me, let me know my connect card. You buy the coffee, I'll show up and we'll hash it out. And then Paul ends with this. I will show you the most excellent way. So Paul leaves it as Ray. Ray, I'm going to correct it, I'm going to correct it, I'm going to correct it, but I'm also going to show you what to do. And this is where we got to bring it full circle. Paul's not just correcting them, he's instructing them. He's saying, listen, don't do this, don't do this, don't do this. Follow me as I follow Christ. Do what I do. Paul later in one of his letters specifically says, I speak in tongues more than all of you. But he never actually references that it's translated all the time. Why? Because Paul was also an apostle and a teacher. That's one of the major verses that I would use to justify the private use of tongues versus the public use is because Paul said it. But he says, I will show you the most excellent way. What is the most excellent way? Seeing all of our gifts working within the diversity of the body of Christ for the unity and the function of the body, which is the salvation of souls and the continuation of the kingdom. Does all of that make sense? So let me bring it in for a landing. Here is the takeaway. Our spiritual gifts are different for the purpose of providing more diverse ministry within the church. Though our individual giftings make us equal relationally, we should not expect all gifts to be the same functionally in the church. Your gifts are not the same. So I'd like to ask the ushers and the worship team and everybody to go ahead and take your places and get ready. You are given spiritual gifts by the Holy Spirit for the function of the church. That also means the whole body is expected to serve the whole body. That also means we're all expected to put our hands to the plow and not just bring our spiritual gifts, but our natural skills and talents to benefit the global body and also to grow our body.