GROW: Introduction
Wednesday, January 8, 2025 1:05 PM
Key Thought: Growing in faith is a process all Christians are
expected to pursue. Mature Christians lead others to grow.
Ephesians 4:11–16
11 So Christ himself gave the apostles, the prophets, the
evangelists, the pastors and teachers,
Christ himself - the listed roles are "gifts" to the church; the
gifts to the Church are gifted Christians
Apostles - those who establish Kingdom works
Prophet - those who speak God's will into a situation
Evangelist - those who seek out new converts
Pastor/Teacher - those who care for and teach believers
12 to equip his people for works of service, so that the body of
Christ may be built up
Equip his people - this is the purpose for the gifts
Works of service - this is the expectation of Christians
Body of Christ - the group of all Christians
GROW Page 1

Be built up - this is the expectation of the Church
13 until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of
the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole
measure of the fullness of Christ.
Until we all reach - the end goal of the gifts to the Church
Unity in faith - unity, not uniformity, is a sign of maturity
Knowledge of - we are all expected to grow in knowledge
Becoming mature - the goal for every Christian
14 Then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by
the waves, and blown here and there by every wind of teaching
and by the cunning and craftiness of people in their deceitful
scheming.
Then - after the process of growing is done
No longer be infants - the analogy of physical maturity
mirroring spiritual maturity
Blown here and there - maturity brings stability of faith
Craftiness of people - people are sinful and will lie and
scheme to influence and direct you
GROW Page 2

15 Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will grow to become
in every respect the mature body of him who is the head, that is,
Christ.
Instead - the opposite of remaining infants
Speaking the truth in love - both are necessary for
maturity:
Truth without love is brutality,
and love without truth is hypocrisy.
Warren Wiersbe
Christ (the head) - the only head of the Church is Jesus,
everyone else is a part of the Body
16 From him the whole body, joined and held together by every
supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love, as each
part does its work.
From Him/held together - the unity of the Church is Jesus
Builds itself up - the Church is responsible to grow itself
Each part does its work - we are all responsible to do our
part to help grow the church
The Takeaway:
Each and every Christian is a gift to the Church. We should each
strive to mature so we can help others grow.
GROW Page 3

strive to mature so we can help others grow.
REVIEW: The Christian Growth Cycle
LINK: Catalyst302.com/grow
GROW Page 4

GROW: Pre-Christian
Wednesday, January 8, 2025 1:06 PM
Key Thought: Growing in faith is a process all Christians are
expected to pursue. Mature Christians lead others to grow.
Pre-Christian:
Someone who has not yet placed their trust in Jesus
The "trust" step is a response to the gospel message.
What is the Gospel message?
The Gospel message is Jesus died for us because sinners needs
a savior.
GROW Page 5

a savior.
The Gospel message is Jesus died because God loves us and
wants relationship with us.
The Gospel message is Jesus died to give us eternal life.
The Gospel message is Jesus died to save us from hell.
ABC Method:
Admit I am a sinner
Believe Jesus can save me
Confess faith in Him
Acts 10:34–43
34 Then Peter began to speak: “I now realize how true it is that
God does not show favoritism
Now I realize - God spoke to Peter in a dream
35 but accepts from every nation the one who fears him and
does what is right.
From every nation - the people of God is based on faith, not
ethnicity
Fear/does - there is the mental and lifestyle obedience
aspects of faith here. It's not just mental ascent, nor is it
GROW Page 6

aspects of faith here. It's not just mental ascent, nor is it
just controlling of choices.
36 You know the message God sent to the people of Israel,
announcing the good news of peace through Jesus Christ, who is
Lord of all.
You know - the gentiles had already heard about the events
of Pentecost in Acts 2
Good news of peace - the "news" is "good" because there is
a new way to have "peace" with God
Through Jesus Christ - Jesus the Messiah is now the
mediator of peace with God
37 You know what has happened throughout the province of
Judea, beginning in Galilee after the baptism that John
preached—
You know what happened - Peter is referring to actual
events; not a mythology or legend
Baptism John preached - John is the forerunner of the
Messiah; his baptism "prepared the way"
38 how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and
power, and how he went around doing good and healing all
who were under the power of the devil, because God was with
him.
GROW Page 7

him.
God/Jesus/Holy Spirit - notice the three are mentioned as
individual co-existing units; a nod to the trinity
And power - the miraculous work of Jesus was done
through the power of the Spirit
Doing good and healing - Jesus's ministry was born out
through miracles done in the power of the Spirit
39 “We are witnesses of everything he did in the country of the
Jews and in Jerusalem. They killed him by hanging him on a
cross,
We are witnesses - the primary testimony was that of
eyewitnesses who saw Jesus's ministry, death, and
resurrection
They killed him - Jesus died by crucifixion
40 but God raised him from the dead on the third day and
caused him to be seen.
Raised him from the dead - the Resurrection is the lynchpin
of the Christian faith
41 He was not seen by all the people, but by witnesses whom
God had already chosen—by us who ate and drank with him
after he rose from the dead.
GROW Page 8

after he rose from the dead.
Who ate and drank - this is not a "spiritual" resurrection,
Jesus's resurrection was a full physical body
42 He commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that
he is the one whom God appointed as judge of the living and
the dead.
Commanded us to preach - the instruction of the
Resurrected Messiah was to proclaim a specific message
Appointed as judge - the gospel message is that the Risen
Jesus is the appointed judge of all mankind
43 All the prophets testify about him that everyone who
believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name.”
All the prophets testify - this is not a new message, but a
fulfillment of an old one
Believes in him - to believe literally means "to trust in the
truth" of something.
What is the Core Gospel Message:
Jesus’s death and resurrection, which were witnessed by many,
prove His deity and His identity as the only Messiah, Savior and
King.
5 Points of the Core Gospel Message:
GROW Page 9

5 Points of the Core Gospel Message:
1. Jesus is God
2. Jesus died on the cross
3. Jesus's whole body resurrected
4. Jesus's death and resurrection were witnessed by many
5. Jesus is the only Messiah, Savior, King
The Takeaway:
To trust in Jesus means to "trust in the truth" of the Core
Gospel Message. Jesus’s death and resurrection, which were
witnessed by many, prove His deity and His identity as the only
Messiah, Savior and King.
GROW Page 10

GROW: Believer
Wednesday, January 8, 2025 6:06 PM
Key Thought: Growing in faith is a process all Christians are
expected to pursue. Mature Christians lead others to grow.
Believer:
A Believer is someone who has placed trust in Jesus and now
must learn to grow in lifestyle obedience.
Can't do "five easy steps"
Whatever we teach from the Word MUST apply to all Christians
wherever or whenever they live.
Matthew 6:19–34
GROW Page 11

Matthew 6:19–34
19 “Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where
moths and vermin destroy, and where thieves break in and
steal.
Do not - a direct command to not do this action
Store up - lit. "to collect, amass, stockpile"
For yourselves - the focus of the collection
Treasures on earth - the location of the collection
Moths, vermin, thieves - corruption to the collection
20 But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moths
and vermin do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in
and steal.
But store up - a direct command to collect or stockpile
For yourselves - the focus of the collection
Treasures in heaven - the location of the collection
Moths, vermin, thieves - the protection of the collection
21 For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
Treasure is - lit. "treasure" and "treasury"; not just the
GROW Page 12

Treasure is - lit. "treasure" and "treasury"; not just the
collection, but the location also
Your heart - the locus or center of who you really are
Will be - your treasury is what defines you
You are what you collect.
22 “The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are healthy,
your whole body will be full of light.
Eye is the lamp - what we "look for" or "focus on" is what
directly affects our spiritual health. In the same way that a
lamp in the darkness directs what you can see.
23 But if your eyes are unhealthy, your whole body will be full of
darkness. If then the light within you is darkness, how great is
that darkness!
Eyes are unhealthy - lit. "evil" or "wicked"
Light is darkness - if your internal focus is on evil things, it
will direct your life to evil things!
24 “No one can serve two masters. Either you will hate the one
and love the other, or you will be devoted to the one and
despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money.
GROW Page 13

Serve - lit. "to be a slave of" or "to be controlled by"
Hate - to decrease the status of
Love - the increase the status of
Devoted - to be loyal to
Despise - to scoff or disrespect
25 “Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you
will eat or drink; or about your body, what you will wear. Is not
life more than food, and the body more than clothes?
Therefore - BECAUSE of the "either/or" nature of loyalty
Do not worry - lit. "anxious" or "concerned"
Eat, Drink, Clothes - a summation of "worldly things"
26 Look at the birds of the air; they do not sow or reap or store
away in barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are
you not much more valuable than they?
Birds… valuable - this is a simple argument because most
humans will consider themselves more important than any
one single bird, yet God provides for them.
Provision does NOT exclude work!
GROW Page 14

27 Can any one of you by worrying add a single hour to your
life?
Add a single hour - our anxiety does not produce fruit
28 “And why do you worry about clothes? See how the flowers
of the field grow. They do not labor or spin.
29 Yet I tell you that not even Solomon in all his splendor was
dressed like one of these.
30 If that is how God clothes the grass of the field, which is here
today and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, will he not much
more clothe you—you of little faith?
Grass of the field - same value statement as the birds
31 So do not worry, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall
we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’
32 For the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly
Father knows that you need them.
Pagans - /ethnos/ (lit. peoples, nations, Gentiles); this is not
a claim about religion, it's about KINGDOM LOYALTY
33 But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all
these things will be given to you as well.
GROW Page 15

these things will be given to you as well.
But - the instruction to define Kingdom Loyalty
Seek - lit. "try to find" or "look for"; combined with Jesus's
earlier comment about the eyes, this speaks to the FOCUS
of your life because it DEFINES YOU!
First - not just first in a sequence; of highest priority; this is
a statement of PRIORITY
His Kingdom - the location where we are instructed to
"store up" our "treasures" ;
The Kingdom or The World
You can only BE LOYAL to one
You can only PRIORITIZE one
You can only BE DEFINED by one
You can only WORK FOR one
His Righteousness - reflecting God's moral character
34 Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will
worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own.
Therefore - the outcome of a Kingdom Loyalty
Do not worry - do not be consumed by anxiety, take each
day as it comes, prioritizing loyalty and fidelity to the
Kingdom of Christ.
GROW Page 16

The Takeaway:
Believers must grow in lifestyle obedience to Christ. This begins
with prioritizing loyalty and service to Jesus above worldly
distractions.
GROW Page 17

GROW: Follower
Wednesday, January 8, 2025 6:06 PM
Key Thought: Growing in faith is a process all Christians are
expected to pursue. Mature Christians lead others to grow.
Follower:
A "Follower" is someone who trusts Jesus, whose lifestyle is
obedient to Christ, and is learning what Christians believe and
why they believe it.
The key verb for the follower step is LEARN.
Theology: What Christianity teaches.
Apologetics: Why Christians believe it.
GROW Page 18

Apologetics: Why Christians believe it.
Let's explore the WHAT and the WHY of: The Trinity.
Trinity: the collective name used to describe the "1 in 3" nature
of God as revealed in Scripture.
Objection: The word "trinity" is not in the Bible.
Answer: The word "trinity" is not, but the concept is. That's
where the word comes from!
Trinity describes 1 God who exists eternally in 3 Persons
Literally: Tri-unity. Diversity within unity.
Objection: the Trinity is a logical contradiction.
Answer: 1A in 3A is a contradiction, 1A in 3B is not.
1: Scripture declares there is only one God (monotheism)
Deuteronomy 6:4
4 Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God, the LORD is one.
1 Corinthians 8:4
4 “There is no God but one.”
GROW Page 19

4 “There is no God but one.”
Galatians 3:20
20 God is one.
2: Scripture reveals that Jesus is God.
John 1:1
1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God,
and the Word was God.
John 8:58
58 “Very truly I tell you,” Jesus answered, “before Abraham was
born, I am!”
Matthew 9:2
2 Some men brought to him a paralyzed man, lying on a mat.
When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the man, “Take heart,
son; your sins are forgiven.”
3: Scripture reveals the Holy Spirit is God.
Matthew 28:19
19 Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing
them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy
Spirit
Ephesians 2:18 (NIV)
18 For through him we both have access to the Father by one
Spirit.
GROW Page 20

Spirit.
Acts 5:3, 4
3 Then Peter said, “Ananias, how is it that Satan has so filled
your heart that you have lied to the Holy Spirit… You have not
lied just to human beings but to God.”
The doctrine of the Trinity is rooted in Scripture's revelation of
God.
The Bible is clear:
1: There is only one God. (the Father)
2: Jesus is God. (the Son)
3: The Holy Spirit is God. (the Spirit)
One God who exists eternally in three persons is the summation
of what Scripture teaches about God.
Two major mistakes from Christian History:
1: Only God is God (Monarchianism)
Jesus and the Holy Spirit are NOT God. Jesus was only human,
no different from us. If this is true, Jesus death could not pay
for sin and salvation is a farce.
2: God the Father became the Son and the Spirit (Modalism)
GROW Page 21

2: God the Father became the Son and the Spirit (Modalism)
This is called "modalism" and claims that the one God changes
"modes" to also be the Son and the Spirit at different times.
If modalism is true, while Jesus was on earth, there was no God
in heaven. Because the one and only God was in "Jesus mode"
here on earth.
Who then did Jesus pray to?
If modalism is true, Jesus is a liar (and therefore not God).
The WHAT and the WHY
What is the Trinity? (theology)
The Trinity is the collective name used to describe the "1 in 3"
nature of God as revealed in Scripture.
Why do Christians believe in the Trinity? (apologetics)
Because Scripture is clear: (1) there is only one God, (2) Jesus is
God, and (3) the Holy Spirit is God.
Denying the unity of God violates Scripture.
Denying the deity of Jesus violates Scripture.
Denying the deity of the Holy Spirit violates Scripture.
Denying the diversity of divine persons violates Scripture.
God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are diversity within divine
unity.
GROW Page 22

The Takeaway:
The Trinity is the best explanation of the facts that there is only
one God, Jesus is God, and the Holy Spirit is God.
GROW Page 23

GROW: Disciple-Maker
Wednesday, January 8, 2025 6:06 PM
Key Thought: Growing in faith is a process all Christians are
expected to pursue. Mature Christians lead others to grow.
Disciple-Maker:
A "Disciple-Maker" is someone who trusts Jesus, whose lifestyle
is obedient, who has learned and can defend the core doctrines
of the Christian faith, and actively works to help others grow.
Acts 18:1-3, 18–28
1 After this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.
GROW Page 24

1 After this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.
Left Athens - Paul & Silas on the 2nd Missionary Journey
2 There he met a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, who
had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because
Claudius had ordered all Jews to leave Rome. Paul went to see
them,
Aquila - a Jewish man
Priscilla - the wife of Aquila
Claudius ordered - the edict of Claudius AD49
3 and because he was a tentmaker as they were, he stayed and
worked with them.
Tentmaker as they were - they worked in the same trade as
Paul
--
18 Paul stayed on in Corinth for some time. Then he left the
brothers and sisters and sailed for Syria, accompanied by
Priscilla and Aquila. Before he sailed, he had his hair cut off at
Cenchreae because of a vow he had taken.
Stayed on in Corinth - Paul is at the end of his 2nd
missionary journey. He is heading back to Antioch
Priscilla and Aquila - a husband and wife team of disciple-
makers who worked with Paul in the early church
Hair cut off - likely a Nazarite vow of dedication to God. See
Numbers 6:1-21
GROW Page 25

Numbers 6:1-21
19 They arrived at Ephesus, where Paul left Priscilla and Aquila.
He himself went into the synagogue and reasoned with the
Jews.
Paul left Priscilla & Aquilla - Paul didn't "drop them" but
parted ways with them, heading to synagogue to teach
about Jesus
20 When they asked him to spend more time with them, he
declined.
Spend more time - the connotation is to hear more
21 But as he left, he promised, “I will come back if it is God’s
will.” Then he set sail from Ephesus.
If it is God's will - Paul prefaced his plans with a "God first"
mentality
22 When he landed at Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem and
greeted the church and then went down to Antioch.
Landed at Caesarea - back in Judea
Up to Jerusalem - likely to give the offering for his Nazarite
vow
GROW Page 26

Down to Antioch - the "end" of the second journey
23 After spending some time in Antioch, Paul set out from there
and traveled from place to place throughout the region of
Galatia and Phrygia, strengthening all the disciples.
Set out from there - the start of the third journey
Strengthening - lit. /to make strong, establish, support,
sustain/
All the disciples - notice Paul doesn't distinguish between
disciples, he helps them all grow
24 Meanwhile a Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria,
came to Ephesus. He was a learned man, with a thorough
knowledge of the Scriptures.
Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria - this tells us
Apollos is a Hellenistic or Greek Jew from the capital city of
Greek philosophical thinking.
Jew named Apollos - Apollos is a Hellenistic or Grecian Jew.
This means Apollos has Jewish heritage, but lives in Greek
society rather than in Jewish society.
Of Alexandria - this is the central hub of Greek thought at
the time, Apollos would have been exposed to deep
thinking and a high respect for public speaking
Thorough knowledge - lit. "strong, powerful" knowledge of
GROW Page 27

Thorough knowledge - lit. "strong, powerful" knowledge of
the Scriptures. He knew them and could use them well
Of the Scriptures - only the Old Testament at this point, the
New testament was just starting to be written down!
25 He had been instructed in the way of the Lord, and he spoke
with great fervor and taught about Jesus accurately, though he
knew only the baptism of John.
Instructed in the way of the Lord - this is the "way of Jesus"
someone verbally taught him what we learn from the
gospels
Spoke with great fervor - this is his Greek background on
display
Taught about Jesus correctly - Apollos, at the time of this
encounter, was already teaching (what he knew) about
Jesus publicly
Only knew the baptism of John - not wrong; but not a full
understanding of Jesus. This creates a connection between
his and Paul's encounter in the next chapter with people
who have similar knowledge
26 He began to speak boldly in the synagogue. When Priscilla
and Aquila heard him, they invited him to their home and
explained to him the way of God more adequately.
Speak boldly in the synagogue - because Apollos was
GROW Page 28

Speak boldly in the synagogue - because Apollos was
Jewish he could do this.
Heard him - obviously, they were both at the synagogue as
well, to hear Apollos speak about Jesus
27 When Apollos wanted to go to Achaia, the brothers and
sisters encouraged him and wrote to the disciples there to
welcome him. When he arrived, he was a great help to those
who by grace had believed.
Apollos wanted to go - the desire to go and preach came
from within him
Brothers and sisters - /adelphos/ the brethren or body of
Christ
Encouraged him and wrote - the body of believers
recognized Apollos's gifts and helped him to do more
Was a great help - Apollos's ministry continued with the
help of the Ephesian believers who taught and encouraged
him
28 For he vigorously refuted his Jewish opponents in public
debate, proving from the Scriptures that Jesus was the Messiah.
Vigorously refuted his Jewish opponents - apologetics in
the early church! Good teaching is needed to combat bad
teaching
GROW Page 29

Proving from the Scriptures - providing evidence for belief
in Jesus
The Takeaway:
Whether in public or in private, disciple-makers intentionally
help others to trust, grow, and learn more about Jesus.
GROW Page 30