Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill and I am privileged to be the primary pastor and teacher here. So welcome to all of you who are here in our Wilmington campus and all of you who are joining us online in the app or on our website. Thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family. I do want to mention really briefly, if you'll go to, if you do not have the Catalyst app yet, please get it because it's going to become an interactive part of our service. So today we're going to be in the app looking at the Grow tool. Later the announcements are also in the app. So if you'll go to catalyst302.com slash app or if you're actually here in the Wilmington campus, there are QR codes that are in the backs of all of our chairs. You'll want to download that, put it on your phone and then you'll be able to be a part of our service. I hope that moving forward we can utilize the app. It's kind of a digital open world space where we can create interactivity, not just in our services, but also during the week as a way to connect. So we're going to be continuing and actually concluding our Grow series. And we've been working through a tool that I built called the Christian Growth Cycle. Me trying to give you a bare bones, clear explanation of what does it really mean to be a Christian? What is spiritual growth? What does it mean to grow in faith? We have all these different terms for it. So let me give you the key thought that has held all of these messages together and then we'll pull up the Grow tool and read it again. So here we go. Our key thought is growing in faith is a process all Christians are expected to pursue. Mature Christians lead others to grow. So growing in faith is a process all Christians are expected to pursue. Mature Christians lead others to grow. So if you have the app, I want to ask you to open it and then you scroll down and the second to the bottom row next to right now media, which is a super cool tool, is the Grow tool. And if you click on that button that says Grow tool, you're going to see that it opens the Grow graphic. I wanted you to be able to see it so we can talk about it and look at it together. So the upper right hand corner is pre-Christian. That's where anybody starts if they have not placed their faith in Jesus. They're a pre-Christian. Pre-Christians become believers when they place their trust in Jesus. And then we move across down to the three o'clock line. We cross over into the believer quadrant, which is the lower right hand. Believers become followers when they grow in lifestyle obedience. And we looked at that two weeks ago. Then you come across from the bottom left to the bottom right. Followers become disciple makers when they learn to explain what they believe and why they believe it. Right. And so last week we looked at the doctrine of the Trinity. What is the Trinity? The belief that God is one essence, but three persons. And why do we as Christians believe that? Not just what it means, but can we explain why we believe that? And so today we're transitioning from the lower left up to the upper left. That disciple maker quadrant. Disciple makers intentionally share their faith and invite pre-Christians to trust in Jesus. And I have to tell you thank you to all of you who have participated in helping me to edit the sentences that are on this graphic. I kid you no joke. It's probably been read by at least 40 people at this point and edited 30 different times. And I keep just trying to go how can we make it better? How can we make it better? One thing I noticed as I was writing this morning's sermon is disciple makers do more than just invite pre-Christians. They do that, but they also help believers and followers to grow in that process. The way I wrote it, it sounds like the only good disciple makers are is for starting the process. Reality is a disciple maker can help in any one of those other quadrants. And that's what I want to talk to you about this morning. So let me give you a quick definition. A disciple maker is someone who trusts in Jesus, whose lifestyle is obedient, who has learned and can defend the core doctrines of the Christian faith, and is now actively helping others to grow. That's what that disciple maker category is. If you have your Bibles with you, or if you have the Catalyst app, you can just press Bible at the bottom. Turn or tap with me to Acts chapter 18. Acts chapter 18. Now because Pastor Tyler did an amazing job at Communion, I have to say I super appreciate Pastor Tyler's spiritual gift of courage. Wearing a stealer's polo the day after. Yeah, that was really great. So hats off to Pastor Tyler. I will definitely need to learn from him and grow in that kind of courage. But because we had Communion, we're not going to do the whole big Bible story. We're not going to start at Genesis. Let's just start at the intertestamental period. How many years between the end of the Old Testament and the beginning of the New Testament? 400 years. For 400 years, God does not speak to his people. And then in a singular moment, he breaks the silence by sending the angel Gabriel to the temple in Jerusalem to speak to a man who is burning incense and worshiping the Lord and to tell that man, you're going to have a very special son. You're going to name him John. He will go on in the power of Elijah and he will prepare God's people. The name of that man who the angel visited is Zechariah. And the name of his very special son is John the Baptist. There's a lot of Johns in the New Testament. I want to make sure we're talking about the right one. So then after the God breaks his silence by sending the angel to Zechariah, God next breaks his silence again by sending an angel. But this time to a young woman who's pledged to be married to a man named Joseph to let her know that even though she has not known her husband yet, she is going to carry the Son of God as a child and birth God incarnate into the world. The name of that young woman is Mary and the name of her very special son is yeah, he's like big deal in the Bible just so we're all clear. Everybody wants to know that Mary's son is Jesus. Jesus is born. He grows up. The Bible says he grew in spirit and knowledge and in wisdom. And we really don't have the majority of the story of his childhood largely because the Bible is salvific history. What Jesus's favorite food was isn't relevant to salvation in his name. So you are free to debate that at lunch today if you what you think Jesus's favorite food would be just don't pick bacon cheeseburger because you would be historically inaccurate. So then Jesus grows up then Jesus meets with likely his cousin or his relative John the Baptist at the River Jordan. He's baptized. He's filled with the Holy Spirit. And at this point he begins what is likely a three to three and a half year ministry. Well, I mean Jesus ministry is probably three to three and a half maybe three and two thirds years. Then he is crucified then spoiler alert. He resurrects on April the 9th a d30. That's that's my take on it. I know there's some other dates happy to debate that with you. Let me know on your connect card. But I think that Jesus rose on Sunday, April the 9th a d30 and then there's this kind of quiet period between the time he rose. He walks on Earth. You know how many days how many days is Jesus on Earth post resurrection pre ascension 40 days. That's right for 40 days the risen Jesus walked talk and ate with his disciples and we don't have any record of what Jesus taught during that time. Then the ascension happens and he tells his people don't go anywhere yet. I want you to stay in Jerusalem so you can receive the gift that my heavenly father will send you. And then on the day of Pentecost which member of the Trinity descended from heaven and empowered the Church of Jesus Christ the Holy Spirit. And at that point the church is born and the church begins with the preaching of Peter. Peter preaches in Jerusalem. Peter in Acts chapter 10 preaches at Cornelius's house. The first time we see the gospel presented to Gentiles and then Jesus jumps into somebody's day and interrupts this person. This man is traveling on the road outside of Damascus. He is doing his own thing. He is a very righteous man. He is well trained in the scriptures. He is so zealous that he thinks that the followers of Jesus are ruining Judaism. And so he's hunting them down and he's getting letters and permission to put them in jail and Jesus shows up on the Damascus Road and says this is the New International Bill version. Yo my bro. Why are you persecuting me? And this gentleman looks up at the King of Kings and he goes who are you Lord? That man's name is Saul which then changed to Paul. And then the Apostle Paul becomes the Apostle to the Gentiles. And that's very important. He's the Apostle to the Gentiles. All of the other Apostles who were called focused mainly on Jewish inheritors. Paul is the Apostle to the Gentiles. Paul begins his, we call his missionary journeys. He has three of them in the book of Acts where he travels around the Mediterranean planting churches. He planted the church at Corinth. He planted the church at Ephesus. He did not plant the church at Rome. So when he writes the book of Romans, he is not writing to people he knows. He's writing to people he hasn't met yet. However, here in Acts chapter 18, we are jumping into the story at the end of Paul's second missionary journey. I just want you to understand where we're at. So let's take a look. Acts chapter 18. I'm going to read the first three verses and then we're going to jump down to verse 18. Okay, so verses 1, 2, 3, then we're going to jump down 18 to 28 and you'll see why I did it that way. So here we go. Acts chapter 18 beginning in verse 1. After this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth. There he met a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to leave Rome. Paul went to see them. And because he was a tentmaker as they were, he stayed and worked with them. Now jump down to verse 18. Paul stayed on in Corinth for some time. Then he left the brothers and sisters and sailed for Syria accompanied by Priscilla and Aquila. Before he sailed, he had his hair cut off at Croncia because of a vow he had taken. 19. They arrived at Ephesus where Paul left Priscilla and Aquila. He himself went into the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews. When they asked him to spend more time with them, he declined. But as he left, he promised, I will come back if it is God's will. Then he set sail for Ephesus. When he landed in Caesarea, he went up or he set sail from Ephesus. When he landed at Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem and greeted the church. And then went down to Antioch. After spending some time in Antioch, Paul set out from there and traveled from place to place through the region of Galatia and Phrygia strengthening all the disciples. Meanwhile, a Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, came to Ephesus. He was a learned man with a thorough knowledge of the scriptures. He had been instructed in the way of the Lord and he spoke with great fervor and taught about Jesus accurately. Though he knew only the baptism of John. He began to speak boldly in the synagogue. When Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they invited him to their home and explained to him the way of God more adequately. When Apollos wanted to go to Achaea, the brothers and sisters encouraged him and wrote to the disciples there to welcome him. When he arrived, he was a great help to those who by grace had believed. For he vigorously refuted his Jewish opponents in public debate proving from the scriptures that Jesus was the Messiah. So I gave an analogy this week as I was speaking to a friend of mine. So I have a very good friend of mine. His name is Kenny. He lives in Arizona. He's a little bit younger than me. He is in ministry. He's going through his bachelor's program and he's currently in hermeneutics, which is how to study the Bible. And he asked me, he said, you know, Bill, how do you keep all the stuff straight? And I said, well, the benefit of being an ADHD pastor is they all happen simultaneously. And I just have to pick which squirrel I'm looking at at the right time. But I used an analogy with him that I want to share with you. When we're reading the Bible, I want you to imagine that you are watching a 66 season show on Netflix. You pulled up Netflix and there is 66 seasons of the show called the Bible. Then you click into a season. Let's say we're going to click into season 42. Within season 42, there are individual episodes, right? And then even if you pulled up an individual episode, whether it's a 43 minute episode or it's an hour long episode, in individual episodes, there are scenes, right? It's not just one stream of conscious thought from one actor. You pick into a season, then an episode. And within an episode, there are individual scenes that are all involved in moving the narrative forward. That's what studying the Bible is like. We jumped into Acts chapter 18. So we jumped into the Acts season of the show. Then we jumped into episode 18 of the Acts season. And then we even further only read part of that chapter, which means we only watched part of an episode of a whole show. This is why it's important to have the 30,000 foot view of the Bible in mind. It's why we do the big Bible story as often as we can. Because if we were to jump right into this story and then just start figuring out what it means, well, is there anybody in their right mind who jumps into season 44 of a show, skipping the first 43 seasons, and then you expect to get it right the first time? You're like, who is that? That's like jumping into the end of the Harry Potter series and not understanding what a Horcrux is. That's like jumping into the end of the Star Wars series and not understanding what a lightsaber is. Right? The lightsaber is intricately connected to the entire anthology that is Star Wars. And yet it's the story of Star Wars that gives the lightsaber its meaning. The Horcrux at the end of the Harry Potter series is intimately connected into J.K. But it is her work that uses the idea of the Horcrux and gives it meaning. In the same way, we jump in here into Acts chapter 18 in the middle of Paul's second journey around the Mediterranean. And there is already all 39 books of the Old Testament, plus Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. All that stuff's already happened. And the first 17 chapters of the book of Acts, we skipped the first 17 episodes of the Acts season and jumped right in here to 18. That's why context is always important for you to know what you know about what you should know. Does that make sense? So here we go. Let's go back to Acts chapter 18. The reason I gave you the first three verses is I need you to see where Priscilla and Aquila show up in the story because the action happens at the end of the end of the chapter. What's very interesting if you look at Acts chapter 18, it is bracketed at the beginning at the end by mentioning Priscilla and Aquila. If you read the whole chapter, there's an awful lot about what Paul did and he goes to that place and he goes to that place and he gets on a boat and he goes over here and then he stops by that city and he's like, yo, what's up in Antioch? And then he moves on. But the chapter is bracketed by Priscilla and Aquila. So in verse 1, after this, meaning after what happened in the first 17 verses, it's connecting. Luke is connecting the action from chapter to chapter to chapter so we can see the travel plan. After this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth. Now, interesting. Let's see who really, really likes their Bible study. So who is Paul's traveling partner on his first missionary journey? When he leaves Antioch, the church in Antioch set aside for themselves, Paul and Barnabas. That's right. But then on the first missionary journey, Paul and Barnabas have a sharp dispute and so they go their separate ways. So when he circles back to Antioch at the end of the first missionary journey and he's getting ready to go on the second one, he changes partners. Barnabas takes John Mark and goes that way. And who's Paul's traveling partner for a second missionary journey? Silas. That's exactly right. Just so we're linking all these characters together. So Paul and Silas, they leave Athens, they go to Corinth. In Corinth, there they met a Jew named Aquila. I know that name just rolls off the tongue. Everybody's waiting to name their baby Aquila. A native of Pontus who'd recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to leave Rome. So here's what I can tell you about verse 2. Verse 2 happens after AD 49. Why? Because if you look up the Edict of Claudius, those of you like your notes, the Edict of Claudius, Roman Emperor Claudius, was tired of Christians and Jews getting into spiritual debate in the Roman capital city. You have to remember the Roman Empire is polytheistic. They tolerate the religion of the Jews, but the religion of the state is the Greco-Roman pantheon of religion. That is the state-sponsored religion. Claudius is super tired of this whole Jewish-Christian debate thing. And so his solution is, guess what? All Jews get the mess out of my city. I'm tired of hearing it. Go somewhere else. That's the Edict of Claudius. It happens in AD 49. And it's not revoked until about AD 54 when Claudius dies and a super friendly guy named Nero comes into power. And Nero, those of you who know Nero, is not very friendly, but that was a history joke. Sorry. I don't have a lot of opportunities for history jokes, so we take them when we can get them. So verse 2 of Acts chapter 18, the Edict of Claudius is mentioned there. And that's why Priscilla and Aquila are driven out of the Roman capital city. But here's what's also interesting. Look, so verse 2, native of Pontus. Pontus is a region northeast of the Roman capital city on the bottom of the Black Sea. So he's born here, but he's living over here in the Roman capital city. They recently came from there. Priscilla and Aquila are driven out by the Edict of Claudius, which happens in AD 49. So depending on whether it was spring or summer, this could be late AD 49. It could be the beginning of AD 50. I'm going to leave that one for you to decide. And then verse 3, here's the other super important thing you need to know about Priscilla and Aquila. What's their day job? Their day job is being a tentmaker. Why is that important? What was Paul's day job? Tentmaker. So verse 3 lets us know, and because he was a tentmaker, as they were, he stayed and worked with them. So Paul uses his marketplace skills. Right? So that's a term that we like to use in America, right? You have your marketplace skills. Paul uses his marketplace skills, which is being a tentmaker, and he uses those skills to build a relationship with Priscilla and Aquila, who are Jews who are coming from Rome. I don't know about you. I have worked in... So my marketplace skill is being a graphic designer. I haven't done it in years professionally, but I used to work in print shops. I worked in a t-shirt print shop. I worked in an offset oil print shop. Melanie hated it because I came home smelling like oil ink, and you could never get that smell out of your clothes. People talk at work, right? Especially if you're working with your hands and you're doing stuff. You're engaging in conversation. I don't know about you, but if I was working side by side with the actual Apostle Paul, you're going to hear about Jesus. Like he's going to find a way to sneak Jesus into some kind of conversation. And ultimately, Priscilla and Aquila become very strong Christians. So now, jump down to verse 18 with me. Now, I want you to watch the way the travel happens. So Paul stays at Corinth for some time, and then he left the brothers and sisters. That word there, if you're using an older translation, they say brethren. That's the word Adelphos, Adelphoi. It means everybody in the body of Christ. They sail for Syria, and look, Priscilla and Aquila are now traveling with Paul and Silas. So I cannot tell you whether Priscilla and Aquila were Christians before they met Paul, but I can totally tell you they are now. They're traveling with Paul. So they set sail now. Also note in verse 18, the last sentence here is kind of a little weird. Before he sailed, he had his hair cut off because of a vow he had taken. And no, this is not the vow that says, Jesse looks so good bald, I need to be like him. That's the vow. If those of you who like your notes, Numbers chapter 6, verses 1 through 21, spell out what is called the Nazarite vow. You can go and look it up, Numbers chapter 6, verses 1 through 21. At this time and in this era, if you wanted to dedicate yourself to God, you would not cut your hair. And at the end of your vow period, you would cut all of it off and give it to God as an offering. What is that symbolizing? Well, obviously your hair grows over time. By cutting the hair off and giving it to the Lord, it's a symbol that I gave all of those days, those weeks, those months, those years to the Lord in service. If you're looking for the rules for the Nazarite vow, Numbers chapter 6, you can find it there. But it is likely that Paul made some sort of Nazarite vow. He dedicated himself to solely the work of the Lord. Now, that also comes with some things. He's not allowed to eat certain things. He's not allowed to drink certain things. Like it's all there in Numbers 6. But that's probably why he had to have his hair cut off. Is he had made it to the end of whatever period of time that he had dedicated himself. And it was now time to cut that hair off and take it to Jerusalem, which in fact, we're about to watch him do. So, that's why he cut his hair off. It's not a I need to be like Jesse moment. 19. They arrive at Ephesus where Paul left Priscilla and Aquila and he himself went into the synagogue to reason with the Jews. Priscilla and Aquila are still in the city. He just left their actual presence to go do what he always does first. What does he do? He goes into the temple or he goes into the synagogue and the first place of ministry is reasoning with the Jews, teaching the Jews who Jesus really is. He didn't just like drop them off. He just parted ways verse 20. Then they asked him probably they meaning the people of the synagogue. Although to be honest, grammatically, it could be Priscilla and Aquila. They asked him to spend more time. He declined. But as he left, he said, I promise I will come back if it is God's will then he set sail from Ephesus. And now we're going to watch these steps. He leaves Ephesus. He lands at Caesarea, which you put the he lands at Caesarea. Is on the Mediterranean on the eastern slope of it so he can get there. He's now back in Judea. And now where's the first place he goes Jerusalem that is likely because of the Nazareth Val that he made he cut his hair off. He you know, he got out his first century Ziploc baggie and he put his hair in it and he holds on to it and he goes to Jerusalem to bring that as his offering to the Lord. And then he travels to Antioch verse 22 is the end of Paul's second missionary journey each of the first two. He leaves Antioch. He travels. He returns to Antioch. He leaves Antioch. He travels. He returns to Antioch. So right there verse 22, even though it's just this random, it feels like you're just mentioning cities. Luke is is classifying the beginning and end of Paul's different trips. So there we land at Caesarea. We're back in Judea. We saw the Nazareth Val. We go up to Antioch, which is where he left from the first place. Boom. I'm back there. Then 23 we skip a certain amount of time after spending some time in Antioch. Paul set out from there. He travels from place to place. Now Paul sets out. Now he's on his third missionary journey. Just so everybody's tracking that gets me to verse 24. Now we're going to focus back on Priscilla and Aquila. Meanwhile, a Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, came to Ephesus. Where did Paul leave Priscilla and Aquila in Ephesus? They're still there when this dude Apollos shows up. So who is Apollos? First, Apollos is a native of Alexandria. What country is Alexandria in? Egypt, which is the southern side of that body of water. Alexandria. He goes to there is he travels from Alexandria. Now, here's what's interesting at this time. Alexandria. Has anybody ever heard of the lost Library of Alexandria? Right. Those of you like your your Expedition X and your lost history shows the Library of Alexandria was the largest collection of knowledge and scrolls known to mankind in its day. And it's just since then disappeared. Alexandria is the central hub of Greek and Roman philosophical thinking. It is the academic center of the world in this day and age. So when we say that Apollos is a native of Alexandria, he grew up on the streets with people who thought like Socrates and Aristotle and Plato. These super deep heavy thinkers skilled in rhetoric knowledgeable in philosophy. So this boy's coming with a pretty heavy understanding of how to argue which was very popular in their day. That's their primary means of communication. So if you didn't know anything else about Apollos, but you knew that he was raised in Alexandria Egypt in this day, you're going to know brother's pretty smart. He's an intellectual guy. He's good at debate. He's good at oration. But then furthermore look at the second sentence of verse 24. He was a learned man with a thorough knowledge of the scriptures. What exactly is Luke referring to? What scriptures does Apollos have knowledge of? Right the Torah. I'll give you that first five books of the Old Testament. Absolutely. I would add to it likely the rest of what we call the Old Testament. Is it possible that Apollos has a thorough knowledge of the New Testament scriptures in AD 49? No, why? Because I haven't been written yet. I just want you to see that because a lot of times when we read the Bible, we read it with our own they call it chronocentricity. You're reading it from your thinking in your time period. You're not reading it in their time period. The Edict of Claudius places this AD 49 AD 50. Paul probably wrote the book of Galatians, which I would say is the first the first book of the New Testament to be written is either Galatians or James and just depends on which team you want to be on there. I'm team Galatians. I think Galatians written in AD 49. James probably wrote James late 49 early 50. So Paul has only written one letter. He's literally traveling planting the churches that he writes the letters to. So when we see here in verse 24 Apollos, he's a native of Alexandria skilled in rhetoric skilled in debate. He is also skilled in the Old Testament. We say it that way. He is skilled in the Old Testament. He still in the scriptures that were scripture to a Jewish man living in the first century. You tracking with me so far? Also, when it says he was a thorough knowledge that thorough knowledge in Greek literally means he's strong or powerful. He is strong or powerful with his knowledge of the scriptures. Verse 25. He had been instructed in the way of the Lord. What is that? The way of the Lord is following Jesus. Christianity's first name was called the way. That's what it was called. So he was instructed in the way of the Lord. The message that you and I learned from the Gospels. He learned from the people who lived it. He's again, he's walking around in AD 49, AD 50. He is hearing the story of the feeding of the 5,000 from the people who were there that day and ate the fish. He's hearing possibly let's say the raising of Lazarus, right? He's hearing about the raising of Lazarus. Maybe from people who were actually there that day. The town mourners who saw it. So he's learning the way of the Lord and also 25. He spoke with great fervor and taught about Jesus accurately. Although he knew only the baptism of John. So I really need to paint the right picture of Apollo's or you won't see how valuable Priscilla and Aquila are. Apollo's is your in front of people guy. He's your preacher upfront guy. He's your I've learned the scriptures as much as I could guy. He's also his great passion great fervor and that which he taught about Jesus. He did teach accurately, but he didn't know the whole story. So it is possible to teach correctly, but not teach fully, right? You see the difference? What Apollo's taught about Jesus, he taught correctly. But he did not teach the full story because he himself had not learned it yet. And this is why I think Priscilla and Aquila are amazing. 25 also do you want to point out those of you like your Bible studying though? He knew only the baptism of John. Luke is setting up what happens in the next chapter. The next chapter we encounter another group of people who were disciples of John the Baptist who had never heard of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. We haven't even heard that there is a Holy Spirit is actually a line from Acts 19. So the fact that we're talking about Priscilla, Aquila and Apollo's here in 18. Luke is setting up what he's about to share in verse 19. Knowing the baptism of John is not wrong, but it's not complete. It's not the full teaching about what Jesus came to do. So verse 25, he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. I'm sorry, where did Paul teach when he showed up in town? In the synagogue. Apollo's is doing the same kind of ministry that the apostle Paul did. What's the difference between Paul and Apollo's? The Holy Spirit inspired Paul to write letters that we now have a scripture. The Holy Spirit did not inspire Apollo's to do that. They're both Jews. They're both learned. They both can argue from the scriptures. They're both going into synagogue repping Jesus. Do you see how similar these two men are? He began to speak boldly in the synagogue when Priscilla and Aquila heard him. They invited him to their home and explained the way of God more adequately. Do you see the courage? I mean, this is well beyond Pastor Tyler wearing a stealer shirt to church on a Sunday. This is, I just need you to understand that. Let's put it in context, right? I'm the learned guy. I'm the upfront speaker guy. But let's say Rob and Hannah, you're right in front of me, so I get to pick on you all today. Let's say I'm teaching rightly, but I'm not teaching fully. And Rob and Hannah, well, they learned from the apostle Paul. So, Rob and Hannah, they know what's right and they know what's full. So, Rob and Hannah, after we get done with church, Rob comes up and goes, hey, I want you to come over my house for lunch today. And then Rob and Hannah are going to teach me what I don't understand. That's Priscilla and Aquila. It's not the fact that I'm the guy up here with the microphone. Holding the microphone doesn't make me right. Holding the microphone doesn't make my theology accurate. Holding the microphone doesn't mean what I teach is good. It just means what I teach is loud. And honestly, I wouldn't need the microphone if we weren't also had so many online campus members watching on their phones. I could yell across this room. Trust me, my wife will tell you, I got big enough pipes. I can handle it. But just because I'm the guy up here with the mic doesn't make me right. It doesn't make my teachings full. And this is where I think the American church has got to take a huge step back. And we got to learn from Priscilla and Aquila. Priscilla and Aquila were not the people arguing in front of the synagogue. But they were the people whose theology was full and correct. And they see this young man who's clearly got passion, who's clearly got those public speaking skills. Let's just be downright honest. I have been good on stage ever since I was a kid. I have a certain amount of personality. Of course, now as a grown man, I also have a certain amount of size. So, it's not hard to get lost. But I've always been good on stage. I've always been good in front of people. That does not make me a good pastor or a good teacher. It just makes me comfortable putting on the microphone and pressing down the anxiety to get up here and try to do a good job. I mean, Mellie and I have been in ministry for years before I ever finally got to go to school and really learn fully. I was just like Apollos. I had passion. I had fervency. We've been youth pastors. Then we were worship leaders. Then we moved to Georgia. And I was the creative arts pastor was my title at one point because it was like worship plus graphic design. So, we called it creative arts pastor. And then I took over a children's ministry for a short period of time and help organize that. And then finally, I was like an associate pastor. I was like helping the senior pastor make leadership decisions. And then he finally told me, he said, Bill, I just think your next job, you should be a senior pastor. Like you're ready. I'm telling you, you're ready. And so, then I applied for a senior pastor job. We moved to Florida. And I did that. Still with no college education. I was Apollos. I got the skills to talk in front of people. I got the courage to say what I'm passionate about. But I didn't understand fully. Not like Robin Hanna do. They get it fully. And so, they hear someone with all the right public speaking skills. And Rob gets it. He goes, you know what we're going to do? We're going to help this young man learn fully because Robin Hanna don't want to come up here. Like I know them. Hanna is not going to come up here and preach the whole sermon. She does not want to do that. Nope. See? Know thyself, right? Nope. Rob doesn't want to come up here as amazingly like velvety sultry is his voice is on this mic. He doesn't want to be over here on this mic. I know that. But if I'm Apollos and I have the skills to stand up here, but Robin Hanna have the theology that I need. Do you see how the body of Christ is made better when Robbie and Hanna have the courage to teach the guy who's teaching to help him be better? So, the whole body is made better. Apollos' ministry was made better because Robbie and Hanna stepped up to the plate and said, hey, come have lunch with us. And where do you think Robbie and Hanna learned it from? I know, go back and forth. You got ADHD. There's no problem with two different names. Where did Priscilla and Aquila get their theology from? Paul, right? If Robbie went to work every single day with the Apostle Paul for a year, bro, I'm going to say you got it. I'm pretty sure you know it. Priscilla and Aquila got their theology right from the same guy who wrote 17 books of our New Testament. They know the truth and they know the truth fully, but they don't have the gifts and skills to stand here. That was Apollos' gifts. And Apollos had the gift to stand up here and spit it, but he didn't have the knowledge to get it full and get it right. And this is why we need disciple makers in the body of Christ. Because I'm one person and you all are 100. And I would say among you, there are several of you who I think could have the public speaking skills to stand up here and do this job. But we're definitely the minority. Most people don't want to get up in front of talk. Public speaking is still the number one most popular anxiety in the world. It's the number one phobia, right? Literally two-thirds of you are shaking your heads at me going, I'm not doing that pastor. No. But would you take somebody out to lunch? See, yeah, the anxiety just goes way down. Like, yeah, let's go get Mexican. Let's go to... Everybody's waiting for me to say Taco Bell, so I'm not going to say it, right? Let's go get hibachi. Let's go to Texas Roadhouse. Let's go get table side guacamole. Sorry, fat guys got to relate stuff to food. But I want you to see who Priscilla and Aquila were. I want you to put humanity on their names. They were the people who knew what was right. And they knew enough that they could hear Apollo's the young guy up here spitting it and they could go, man. And I just, you know, in my head, have you ever read the Bible and you like put yourself in the story? You know, and you like you close your eyes and you put yourself in your little, you know, Bible robe. And I'm sitting here in the synagogue. And of course, we're sitting in the synagogue. The men would be on one side and the women would be on the other side. So it's not quite like church today where, you know, Hannah could just elbow Robbie right in the ribs and make a comment in his ear. So Priscilla and Aquila are sitting across the room from each other. And they got to at some point be like catching eyes and be like... You know, they're like throwing gang signs trying to figure out do we agree? We need to go talk to this guy because he came from Alexandria, which means he was skilled in rhetoric. He was skilled in logic. He was skilled in argumentation, but he wasn't skilled in his theological understanding of who Jesus is and what Jesus came to do. That Priscilla and Aquila had because they learned it from Paul. So now let's go to 27. In between verse 26 and 27 is an undescribed amount of time. I cannot tell you if they only had one meal with him or whether Apollo's learned from them for days, weeks or even months. If you want to open your Bible and tell me how much time exists between 26 and 27. I have to imagine it wasn't a single meal. Just because Priscilla and Aquila learned from Paul. Paul rolled deep. I imagine that first meal set the stage and Apollo's went, okay, I want what you guys have. Robbie definitely understands something about this whole Jesus scripture thing that I don't get. Robbie, can I come to work with you for a couple of days? Can we just talk? Can I just learn? And Apollo's even though he's the upfront guy with the mic and the argumentation skills. Apollo's had the humility to learn from the quiet people who had learned from the source. So as much as I also want to I want you to put humanity on Priscilla and Aquila. I want you to see the humility in Apollo's. Most public speakers are arrogant. We are. That's the name. It takes a certain amount of confidence to stand up here and talk for 45 straight minutes believing that you care at all. About my opinion or the way I expound scripture. It takes a lot of arrogance to do that. Especially when I'm in different pastor groups and we talk about well, how long is the sermon at your church? Most American churches their sermon is 20 to 25 minutes. I regularly teach 45 to 55 minutes and people look at me like how do you and has anybody come to your church? I'm like as I get to the end of the service and people still listening. That's that's how that works. If you weren't listening, you'd have left. But the humility for someone like Apollo's who's trained in public speaking, he was trained in rhetoric to take that invitation from Robbie and Hannah and go wow, I need to learn that. Okay, I want to sit. I want to learn. So Apollo's learns from Priscilla and Aquila. We get to 27. Then Apollo's wants to travel. He wants to go to the next town and he wants to keep preaching Jesus just like the Apostle Paul. But now look at what he has this time 27 the brothers and sisters encouraged him to go. Tired of the guy running long. They wrote to the disciples there to welcome him. See when Apollo's showed up, he showed up on his own when he left. He left with backing. He left with support. He left with validity from other bodies other people saying yes, this bro knows his stuff kind of like getting an ordination. He left with a quality check on the type of ministry and the disciples there in the town. He went to they welcomed him and when he arrived he was a great help to them because 28 he rigorously refuted his Jewish opponents in public debate proving from the scriptures here. Old Testament there proving from the scriptures that Jesus was the Messiah. Apollo's travels to Ekeia and the ministry that he delivers in Ekeia is built on the foundation of what Priscilla and Aquila poured into him. They took this really talented rough, you know understanding good but not full young man and they poured the rest of the theological knowledge into him necessary for him to go be a power. And if you forward fast forward to Paul's writing, Apollo's is mentioned in the Corinthians and he said what did he say? He said some of you say you follow Paul others. I follow Apollo's and Paul's like who is Paul? Who's Apollo's? We're not Jesus. So Apollo's is ministry became so good that people chose to follow Apollo's instead of Paul. And Paul was like guys were you baptized into Paul? Were you baptized into Apollo's? No, you were baptized into Jesus. Don't get it twisted. We're just servants. Apollo's is ministry would have never been that good if Hannah and Robbie didn't take him out to lunch. This is why I need you and this is going to challenge our American Church mentality. So this is what I need you to do. I need you to erase the idea that being a disciple maker means you have to do this. I need you to take that idea and throw it out. That's a lie. You know what it takes to do this? Calling. I'm called by God to do this job. That's a calling. But everybody can share what you know about Jesus with somebody else over table side guacamole. Right? Every one of you can do that. Every one of you can carry someone you've met to the next stage based on what you have learned. You do not have to think, oh I have to become a disciple maker and then Pastor Bill is going to ask me to preach on a Sunday. No, I can't ask you to do that. I owe the elders 47 or 48 Sundays a year because that's my job. So no, I'm not going to ask you to come up here and do this job. You know what I'm going to ask you to do? I'm going to ask you to open up your radar for when you see the next Apollos coming through your life. When you see the next person, maybe Aaron since you're here, you're in that catalyst hoodie looking good, bro. So let me say this. Maybe just maybe you're at work in the coming weeks and your ears perk up because you hear somebody interested either in learning more about Christianity or some of those pebbles that you've been dropping along the way. You know, somebody picks one of those pebbles up and they say, Aaron, I know you go to church, man. I got some really hard times in my life right now. Can we go get some table side guacamole and talk about this? And now all of a sudden, there's your Priscilla and Aquila moment. Women, I also want to point out something to you. How many times today so far do you think I've said this married couple's name? A lot. Let's say more than 30. Priscilla and Aquila are mentioned in the New Testament. I think it's 17 individual times. And you know whose name is always mentioned first? Priscilla. The only time Priscilla Aquila is mentioned first is right here in Acts 18 defining who they are. A Jew named Aquila and his wife, Priscilla. I challenge you, open up your Bible app and do a search for the name Priscilla. Every single time they are mentioned, she is mentioned first. Now, how can I explain this? I'll say it's one of two things. I believe that Priscilla is mentioned first to put her in priority with her husband, not over her husband, but with. It's always Priscilla and Aquila. The only time Priscilla is mentioned on her own is when it's mentioning that she is the wife of Aquila. So they are mentioned as a team. You got two choices on why Priscilla is mentioned first. Either A, Priscilla actually knew the theology better than Aquila, which is totally possible. Don't get it twisted. There are some fantastically brilliant women who understand the word of God, who we should listen to when they speak. Absolutely. Or Priscilla's character was more godly than her husband's. That is totally also possible. I don't really care which view you want to take, but I need ladies. I need you to hear me. You are also disciple makers in your own right and with your husband because Priscilla is always mentioned before her husband's name. So disciple maker does not come with a male or female identifying marker. Disciple maker comes with I'm a Christian. If you are a follower of Christ, I need you to get on that Christian growth cycle graphic. I need you to find your place. I need you to start growing. And as you are growing, once you get up to that disciple maker category, it is your job to help others grow. Paul did not mentor Apollos. Priscilla and Aquila did. Priscilla and Aquila learned from Paul. And then they passed it on to Apollos. And Apollos' ministry grew to the point that he was rivaling the Apostle Paul himself. I got to be honest. As a teacher, that would make me feel awesome. If I discipled Robbie and Hannah and then Robbie and Hannah started discipling Aaron to the point that Aaron's preaching ministry is rivaling my preaching ministry. Bro, that's like generational produce. That's amazing. We shouldn't feel threatened by that. Paul didn't. He said, who is Paul? Who's Apollos? We're all baptized into Jesus. Let's just go to work, bro. Me and Aaron, we'll get on a preaching tour together. Fine. You know, what I love about this, and here I'll bring this in for a landing. Priscilla and Aquila were disciple makers in private. But their impact was in public. Their impact was through Apollos' public ministry. But the ministry they poured into that young minister was done in private. I need you to understand that being a disciple maker doesn't involve public ministry. It is so much more effective when it's done privately, personally with table-side guacamole.