Good morning. Welcome to catalyst. My name is Bill. Good morning to all of you who are here on our Wilmington campus. And for all of you are joining us online. Thank you for being a part of the catalyst family. I was able to look in on the live chat that goes on in the live stream, and we have some people who are from out of state. So for those of you have sunny warm weather. We're still here battling through winter, but thank you for all of you who were able to make it through the ice and the snow to be here for church today. Couple quick things. We will be using the catalyst app in service so if you are new to catalyst or you're joining us online, I'd like you to just open the app we've got sermon notes there's a lot of things, a lot of verses and some timeline and years and stuff like that I'm going to be rattling off today. It's all in the sermon notes inside the app. You can email that to yourself after service and also the ask a question button is now permanently in the sermon notes in the app. So if you would like to ask a question, we welcome them here. You can ask anything you want. You ask the question in the sermon notes. My wife will collect them while I'm speaking, and then she will feed them back up to me up here. Once we conclude the message. As you saw in the intro video, we're going to be bringing our how we grow series to a close this morning. And so if you are in the catalyst app. Do you know, do you have the green image? I'm sorry, Eric, the green image of the maturity disciple maker thing that we leave that in the notes. I just want to talk through this. This is the I guess I don't want to say the model but this is the way I broke down the easiest way to explain how do we grow as Christians, how do we grow in spiritual maturity. So the upper right hand one says pre Christian. That's where everybody starts pre Christians become believers when they place their trust in Jesus. That's what takes somebody from being a non Christian to being a Christian. Then you go down to the lower right and you're a believer. And as you grow believers become followers when they grow in lifestyle obedience. So you go from the lower right now over to the lower left. And as a follower, you're then going to learn followers become disciple makers when they learn to explain what they believe and why they believe it. And then finally, you travel up to the upper left hand corner as a disciple maker and disciple makers intentionally share their faith and invest in others who trust grow and learn. And that's what we're going to be talking about this morning is a portrait of a disciple maker in the New Testament. Now let me give you the key thought that sort of wraps all of these messages together. Here it is. Christian maturity is a shared cycle. As we grow, we help others to do the same. My mentor, Pastor Rick would say Christianity is always one generation away from extinction. As soon as one generation no longer considers it valuable to raise up the next generation. Christianity is dead. That's what we do. One generation raises up the next generation. And we've been doing it that way since a D 30 when Jesus rose. And here we are today. The group of us that are here plus the dozen or two dozen of you that are online. This is where we're at after 2000 and something years or almost 2000 years. We've been handing it down generationally as those who are mature in the faith. Why call a disciple maker? Right. You're not just some people think that once I get to a certain state of spiritual maturity, then poof, I'm done. There's no more spiritual growth to be had. That's not the Christian model. The Christian model is as soon as you've learned something, you're responsible to pass that thing on. You don't have to reach the super Christian state where you're like, now all of a sudden I can make disciples. That's not how that works. Real life happens and you learn something and then you pass that lesson on and then somebody else learned something that you didn't learn and then they pass that lesson on. Today I want to tell you the story of a disciple maker and the person that he mentored in the New Testament. And I will admit to you that my wife was a little miffed at me when I picked this particular character because I probably could have picked an easier example. I probably could have went with, you know, Apollo and Priscilla and Aquila and it was so super obvious that he needed to learn something new or I could have gone with Paul raising Timothy. But today I want to tell you the story of a little known man named John Mark. There's only a dozen or so references in the entire Bible to who John Mark is, but I think he's a very valuable person to know about. And I think his story has a lot to show us about the relationship of a disciple maker to the person that he's mentoring. So if you're following in your notes in the app, this is going to be letter A. I'm going to tell you a little bit about John Mark and then I'm going to try to bridge what you've learned about John Mark to talking about disciple making. So letter A, the first thing I want you to know is Mark is the quote unquote spiritual son of the apostle Peter. So Mark is the spiritual son of Peter. I can prove this in First Peter, Chapter five, verse 13, and we're going to be using a lot of scripture today. So if you're not going to like, you know, either click through a thumb through, that's why I put it all in the sermon notes. You can email it to yourself when we're done. First Peter, Chapter five, verse 13. This is the close of Peter's letter. And here he says, she who is in Babylon, chosen together with you, sends her greetings. And so does my son Mark. Now, those of you remember when we studied, was it first or second, John, and they use the imagery of a woman. She sends her greetings and we realized that it wasn't just a singular woman, but it was representative of a church. Because keep in mind at the time that Peter is writing this letter, the first century Christian church is under persecution. Peter was executed by the Roman Caesar Nero. He was not the friendliest of dude. OK, there was a lot wrong with Nero. So when Peter says she who is in Babylon, he's not talking about a singular woman and he's actually not talking about historical Babylon. He's using Babylon to all of his Jewish audience. They would have understood a power, a pagan power who exists outside, who's oppressing the people. That's what Babylon is. So in the first century, what's the name of the pagan nation that is now occupied and oppressing the Jewish people? Rome. So when he says she, meaning a church, because he doesn't want his letters getting traced back. So if they find out who wrote the letter, then they'll execute those people for being Christian. So when he says she, he means a church who is in Babylon, a church possibly even in the capital city of Rome. Well, there was a church there. There's another guy in the Bible who wrote a letter to the Christians who live in the capital city of Rome. What's the name of the capital city of Rome? Rome. That wasn't it. It wasn't a trick question. What's the name of the capital city of Rome? There it goes. What was what color was George Washington's white horse? There we go. Everybody's awake today. Who wrote the letter to the Romans? The Apostle Paul. So we know there was a church even in the Roman capital city, even while our faith was illegal. And here Peter makes reference to it. She, meaning the church who is in Babylon, possibly within the city limits of Rome, together with you sends her greetings, meaning this church is sending greetings to another church. We saw that in second John. And then he says this. And so does my son Mark. Now we have two choices with the word son here. Either Peter is referring to his actual biological son or he is referring to a young man that he loves like a son. We do know that there's biblical evidence that Peter was married because Peter has a mother-in-law. In fact, Peter's mother-in-law is mentioned in the scriptures. So Peter did have a wife. It doesn't state the number of children or how many children Peter had. So most scholars think this reference to son is not a biological reference. There is a biological reference to John Mark later and I'll bring that out. But this is more than likely a spiritual son reference. Someone that Peter took under his wing, invested his life in, loved dearly, cared for dearly. And here he's obviously with Peter and he's sending greetings in Peter's letter. So before we ever left first Peter 513, what I want you to see is at some point prior to Peter writing this letter, Peter had invested his life in John Mark. Does that make sense? For him to call him my spiritual son, there had to be relationship. There had to be time. There had to be depth for him to use a loving familial term like my son. Here's the next thing I want you to know about John Mark. This is letter B. This is letter B. John Mark had a failure to faithful story in his testimony. If we could open the back doors of the church and ask John Mark to walk up here and tell you his story, he's going to have a moment where he fails and then he's rebuilt to faithful. I'm not going to read you the entire story. I'm just going to highlight the verses so I can put the story together for you in Acts chapter 12 verse 25. We see when Barnabas and Saul had finished their mission, they returned from Jerusalem, taking with them John, who is also called Mark. John Mark traveled with the Apostle Paul and Barnabas on the first missionary journey around the Mediterranean. So not only is John Mark the spiritual son of the Apostle Peter, he went on the road with the Apostle Paul. If there was somebody in the first century church who really saw the beginning of the birth of Christianity, it was John Mark. Discipled by Peter traveled with Paul. Like that's a pretty good deal. Unfortunately, things didn't go really well on that first missionary journey. If we fast forward to Acts chapter 15 and look at verses 37 and 38 says this. They're getting ready for their second missionary journey. Paul and Barnabas are having a conversation. Barnabas wanted to take John, who is also called Mark, with them. But Paul did not think it was wise to take him because he had deserted them in Pamphylia and had not continued with them in the work. So here's John Mark. Somehow invested or trained by Peter traveling with Paul and with Barnabas and partway through the first missionary journey. John Mark sort of deuces out. He's like, yeah, I can't do it. Now there's a lot of debate about why the Bible says Pamphylia so we could look at Pamphylia. You could look at the geography, you could find there are debates that talk about why did John Mark abandon them at this point? Well, that's an outside of the Bible debate, John. We could look it up. We could have a fun debate with history and geography and all that kind of stuff. The Bible doesn't state exactly why, but it does state right there in Acts chapter 15 verse 38. Paul did not want to take John Mark with him because John Mark had abandoned them on the first missionary journey. But that's still not the end of the story. There's another reference to John Mark in Paul's second letter to Timothy. I just want to read you second Timothy chapter four verses nine to eleven. And then I'm going to try to bring all of this together and tie it up. Second Timothy chapter four verses nine to eleven. This is Paul writing the closing to his second letter to his mentee or his son in the faith Timothy. He says, Hey, Tim, that's my interjection there. It's the International Bill translation. Parenthesis, Tim, do your best to come to me quickly for DMS because he loved the world has deserted me and has gone to Thessalonica. Prentice has gone to Galatia and Titus to Dalmatia. Let's just roll off the tongue. Only Luke is with me. Get Mark and bring him with you because he is helpful to me in my ministry. See, it's not fair for me to tell you all about the split between Paul and Barnabas and Barnabas wanted to take John Mark and give him that second chance. And Paul was like, No, I don't think so. I'm going to take Silas. And then basically Barnabas and John Mark go this way. They do ministry and Paul and Silas go this way. They do ministry. And you'd think, oh, if I didn't tell you the rest of the story, well, then maybe Paul just hated John Mark for the rest of his life. And then we get this beautiful little reference here at the end of Timothy. He says, Hey, everybody else has deserted me. You know who I want? Go get Mark. He's good. So somehow, some way between the events of Acts, Chapter 15, when Paul and Barnabas disagreed about John Mark so much that they had to go separate ways sometime between that moment and the moment where he's writing the end of Timothy. John Mark got back on the horse and must have served with Paul at some point for Paul to say, Go get me John. He's good. He's he'll help me. Everybody else is gone. Only Lucas with me. Notice that Paul's saying only Lucas with everybody else induced out. You know who I can count on? How many? Just just think about this. If you were out doing something, if you were at a job. And somebody that you asked to come with you to help you. Just left and abandoned you while you're doing your work. Is that the person you would call the next time somebody else abandoned you? No. So in order for you to call that person, something happened between time A and time B, right? Something relationally happened. So now I'm going to jump off the pages of scripture. And I'm going to editorialize for a second. Here is I feel like it's going to be the end of the clue movie. Here's how it could have happened. Right. So here you go. I know that Peter is the spiritual father of John Mark. I know as a fact that John Mark abandoned Paul and Barnabas. And I know as a fact that somehow the relationship between John Mark and Paul is going to be broken. And I know as a fact that somehow the relationship between John Mark and Paul was repaired to the point that Paul, when everybody else had left him, said go get John Mark. I know all three of those things are facts. So now I'm going to weave a little narrative through these facts that could be true. I'm admitting to you this is Pastor Bill's ADHD creative version of one way the first century could have gone down. Who better. Just think about it. Who better. To pour into John Mark. After a failure like abandoning the apostle Paul. Then the disciple. Who turned his back on Jesus himself. You go back to the gospel. And we look at which of the disciples is the one who denied Jesus three times. Who is it. No, no, it wasn't. Which disciple denied Jesus three times. It wasn't you. This dude betrayed Jesus. But Peter did. Peter denies Jesus three times. Right after the scene at the garden against 70. He's like surely not Lord. Let me cut this dude's ear off. That's how much I love you. Right. That's a really weird price. I love this. We should make that for Valentine's Day. Honey, I love you so much. Little Van Gogh. Who better. To pour into John Mark at this moment. When he had abandoned the apostle Paul. That the actual apostle. Who had abandoned Jesus before his death. And then the famous scene afterward. Where Jesus restores Peter. And says upon this rock I will build my church. If it's true. Now what I know is true. Is Peter had a loving spiritual relationship with John Mark. I know that. I know that he that he did not that John Mark. Denied Paul and I know at some point that relationship was restored. What I want to believe is true. Is that God had set up the right man. To be at the right place at the right time. So when John Mark hit that low period. And was like man. I abandoned Paul. And Barnaby. They needed me. And I abandoned. What am I supposed to do. Q Peter. Who to me. He's the most redneck of all the disciples. Like. He just is. He's like hey man let me tell you a story. Let me tell you about this time I denied. He would be the perfect guy. To minister to John Mark in that moment. Because he had denied the Savior. And was still called back. Another thing I want you to know about John Mark. Let her see in your notes. John Mark's family. Is very central to the early Jerusalem church. I know this. Because. I can show you an axe chapter. Twelve. Let's look at this. Axe chapter twelve. I'm going to start reading in verse five. Oh excuse me. You're right Eric. No you're right. I skipped a verse and I apologize. First I want to go to Colossians chapter four verse ten. I told you I could tell you about John Mark's family. Here it is. Colossians chapter four verse ten. My fellow prisoner. Aristarchus. Sends you his greeting as does Mark. The cousin of Barnabas. You have received instructions about him. If he comes to you welcome him. Now we understand. Why was Barnabas. So set. On giving John Mark a second chance. After that abandonment on the first missionary journey. It was his cousin. I don't know about you but like I don't like all of my cousin. And I guarantee you they all don't like me. But you put all. Nobody raise your hands. This next comment is just strictly rhetorical. Okay. If your next year spouse you may elbow them. That is acceptable. In any group of cousins I have a theory. In any group of cousins. There is always the influential one. And then there always is the one that everybody goes. When they walk in the door. I'm the one. In my family. I'm the extra cousin in the cousin group for sure. That could have been John Mark. And yet Barnabas is not willing. To just write off John Mark. He's family. Let's do this again. Now that's not the only time that John Mark's family. Shows up in the first century church. Now let's go. Acts chapter 12. I'm going to read verses 5 through 12. Then I'm going to quickly tell you the story. So Peter. Was kept in prison. But the church was earnestly. Praying to God for him. The night before. Herod was to bring him to trial. Peter was sleeping between two soldiers. Bound with two chains. And centuries. Stood guard at the entrance. Suddenly Peter. He stood guard at the entrance. Suddenly an angel of the Lord appeared. And a light shone in the cell. He struck Peter. On the side. And woke him up. Quick. Get up. He said. And the chain fell off Peter's wrists. Then the angel said to him. Put on your clothes and sandals. And Peter did so. Wrap up your cloak around you. And he took off. And he said. What did you see? The angel told him. Verse 9. Peter followed him out of the prison. But he had no idea what the angel was doing was really happening. He thought he was seeing a vision. They passed the first and second guards. And came to the iron gate leading to the city. It opened for them by itself. And they went through it. When they had walked the length of one street. The angel left. And they were all in doubt. The Lord has sent his angel to rescue me from Herod's clutches. And from everything the Jewish people were hoping would happen. When this had dawned on him. He went to the house of Mary. The mother of John. Who is also called Mark. Where many people had gathered. And were praying. Let's rewind. A few things I need you to understand. At the time of Acts chapter 12. The angel said. At the time of Acts chapter 12. Christianity is still considered a part of Judaism. Very early in the faith. People just thought we were another group of Jews. Who disagreed about some little minor stuff. Eventually. As Christianity began to grow. They realized that Christianity is its own religion outside of Judaism. And that's when we got stepped on really bad by the Romans. But at this point. The Jewish leading people. The Jewish leaders. The Jewish leaders. The Jewish leaders. The Jewish leading people. They know that Christians are a problem for them. Because Christians think that there's only one king. And his name is Jesus. The Jews are willing to tolerate the king of Rome. Because they're still waiting for their promised Messiah. So Herod. Who is in charge of this area of Rome at the time. Says you know what I'm going to do. Sharita I'm going to buy myself. A lot of good credit. With the Jewish leaders. And I'm going to scoop up. The Jewish leaders. And I'm going to scoop up and execute. A couple of these people that are just ruffling their feathers. So that's why Peter is in prison. Here in Acts chapter 12. Herod goes and scoops up Peter. And plans to put him through basically a kangaroo court trial. And then execute him. All to win a little bit of favor. With the Jewish leaders. In Jerusalem. So Peter's in prison. Verse 6 tells you it's the night before the trial. This is literally the last night of Peter's death. And Peter's in prison. This is literally the last night of Peter's life. According to Herod. Herod will execute him the next day. The trial is a sham. They're going to execute him. Which is why people are praying for him. Verse 7 the angel shows up. Just two really funny things. First. They were so committed. To executing Peter. That they had shackles on both of his wrists. Basically. He was handcuffed. And there's two different Roman soldiers. And there's two more soldiers. Outside his prison cell. I don't know about you. But I feel like this is a little bit of overkill. For somebody who's just a fisherman and preaches. But that's the situation. He is shackled. With both wrists. The two separate Roman soldiers. And there's two more Roman soldiers. Just outside the prison cell. So even if Peter were to somehow. Like overpower the two guards. Who he's shackled to. Inside the cell. He still would have to make it past the two. Outside the cell. My favorite part. Of verse 7. Eric can you put that verse 7 back up again? Suddenly an angel appeared. And a light showed to the cell. Okay that's pretty normal. And then he struck Peter on the side. He literally. Wake up! I love that. Why that's so interesting to me. Who wrote the book of Acts? Anybody remember? Luke I heard it. Who would have known the detail. Of where. Peter got kicked. By the angel. Only Peter. There are no other Christians in the cell at this moment. The only reason we know. That the angel kicked him in the side. Is if Luke got that detail. Direct from Peter. But I just love it. The angel shows up. Peter is completely knocked out. The angel just walks up to him. And starts kicking him. Hey Pete! Get up! I just love that. That to me is one of those very human moments in the Bible. It's a simple little detail that you might just overlook. So then Peter. Doesn't realize what's happening is in real life. Because in his world view. God does speak in dreams and vision. That's normative. They had it in Old Testament Judaism. Speaking in tongues and miraculous signs. In chapter 2, chapter 4, chapter 6. So this is normal for him. He doesn't realize that he's actually being set free. Until he's physically outside the prison. So put yourself in Peter's shoes for a minute. It's the night before you're going to get executed. You are saved. From the prison miraculously. By an angel. You are now walking down the streets. Of Jerusalem. Like, let's call it like 3, 4 a.m. Where's the first place you go? Like where would you go? If it was me. I would go to the very first house. Where I had friends. I would go to the very first house. Where Christians were. Who I knew. Who would pray for me. And would protect me. That makes sense? I think it's pretty logical. When this dawned on him. He went to the house of Mary. The mother of John. Who is also called Mark. Where many people had gathered and were praying. Well why were they praying for Peter? Because he's going to get executed in the morning. And there's nothing they can do about it. So at this point the one thing they can do. Is they can pray. And they can pray that his faith holds true. That's what they're praying for. In fact if you read the rest of the story. I don't have time to go into all of it. Because how is he going to get out? He shackled the two Roman guards. There's two more at the gate. When the servant girl shows up at the door. To find Peter. They're like girl you've lost it. We know that he's in jail. And they have to go get him. But look at how. The owner of the house is identified. In verse 12. The house of Mary. The mother of John. Who is also called Mark. So this tells me. John Mark's momma's house. Is in Jerusalem. It also tells me. That John Mark's momma's house. Was used as a place. For gathering and prayer. By the early church. Because what are they doing. When Peter makes it to the house. The Christians there are gathered. And they are praying for him. So John Mark is a young man. Whose momma has a very wealthy house. And he had servants outside. Momma had servants. So there's a little bit that we can. Understand about this house. She was wealthy enough to have servants. She was wealthy enough to have a gate. Outside the house. The servant girl is the one who answers the door. And it was also large enough. For a group of Christians to gather. And safely pray together. Because remember. If we got caught we get killed. That's the first century. Number one. Number one because I think he's just a really cool cat. And it's my sermon. So I get to pick who I want to preach about. But here's the other reason I want you to know about John Mark. John Mark. Has left us. Something very. Valuable. The young man that I've been talking about all morning. Some of you know because I've watched you. And your little smirks that I've been talking. The young man who is known as John Mark. Who I told you all these things about. Is the author of the Gospel of Mark. And if that was all it was. That would be fantastic. But I can tell you something else about the Gospel of Mark. Most scholars believe. That the Gospel of Mark. Is the written record. Of the Apostle Peter's preaching. Finished. So now let's put all these pieces together. Peter's preaching. And let's put all these pieces together. Peter has a spiritual son. A John Mark. John Mark is the cousin of Barnabas. John Mark traveled with Paul. Had that failure. Back to faithful moment. John Mark's family. Is central in the early Jerusalem church. His mother was wealthy enough. To have a home that could house the church. And pray for them. And when the Apostle Peter is released from prison. In the dead of night. John Mark's house. Is the first place he goes. All of that leads me to the conclusion. That Peter. Invested greatly in John Mark. And John Mark. Was well known. To the first century church. If not by the time Luke is writing Acts. And he's telling them about the house. That Peter went to when he got released from prison. If John Mark was not a well known figure. He wouldn't have designed the house. And he's the father of John Mark. By the time that Luke writes Acts chapter 12. John Mark is a known figure. In the Jerusalem church. And the reason that I think he's a known figure. Is because he is the Venti. Or the. He's the you know. The Padawan learner. Of the Apostle Peter. Now. Those of you who have your notes. On the screens. But just to give you a little historical validity. Of why I believe that John Mark. Wrote the Gospel of Mark. Here is a quote. From the church father Papias. Who lived at the end of the first century. And he was born mid first century. And his ministry is towards the end of. The first century. The beginning of the second century. This is what Papias writes. About the Gospel of Mark. Mark. Wrote down. Accurately. What so ever he remembered. Then I'm sorry the word things should be in that quote. He took a special care. Not to admit anything he heard. And not to put anything. Fictitious. Into the statements. Now that statement. About the authorship of what you and I know as the Gospel. Of Mark. Is written in AD let's call it 95. To like 110. In that 15 year gap. Not exactly sure what Papias wrote. We only have some fragments of his documentation. But this is first century witness. That the person who wrote. The Gospel of Mark. Wrote it down and got it from Peter. It's Peter's preaching ministry about Jesus. You know what I think is great about that? The denial of Jesus. Is in the Gospel of Mark. You know what that means? How did John Mark learn? About Peter's denial of Jesus Christ. From Peter's own lips. Peter didn't just. Encourage him with lessons from Jesus. Peter also taught him lessons from his own life. Hey man I did this thing. Did not go well. But Jesus did this thing and it went really well. So just to give you a little history here. I tried to work with the Bible. And I did it. And I did it. And I did it. And I did it. So just to give you a little history here. I tried to work out for myself. When did Peter. And John Mark. Spent time together. Because there are scattered details. Throughout the New Testament about John Mark. So if you have the notes in the sermon. All these dates are there. But let me just quickly review them for you. Jesus raises from the dead in AD 30. Paul becomes a Christian in AD 32. And he tells us in Galatians. That he goes away to Arabia for three years. So Paul comes back in about AD 35. The scene of Peter being freed from prison. Happens in AD 44. And Paul's first missionary journey. That John Mark goes on. Is probably AD 46 to 48. It has to be over by AD 49. Because that's when they all come back. For the Jerusalem Council. Which is in the middle of the book of Acts. Okay. I realize I'm spitting these really fast. I'm going to go back. Peter's second missionary journey. Takes place after the Jerusalem Council. So that's 49 to 52. Peter writes first Peter. Where he calls John Mark his spiritual son. In AD 60 to 62. And Paul writes Timothy. Or second Timothy. Where he says get me John Mark. He's good for my ministry. In 64 to 67. Why do I say all of that? Because I'm a geek. And here's why. In order for John Mark. To be referred to. As Peter's son. Peter and John Mark had to spend enough time together. For that mentor-mentee relationship. To blossom. To be able to have legs. So to speak. I submit to you. That Peter. Invested his life in John Mark. Anytime between AD 30. When Jesus rises. And AD 46. And why do I say that? Because John Mark is not with Peter. He's with Paul. During the second missionary journey. And he's with Barnabas during the second missionary journey. And that's going to lead me right to. When Peter writes first Peter. And when Paul writes second Timothy. Which means. Peter's investment in John Mark. Has to predate. All of those other times. Where John Mark and Peter were not together. When he's traveling with Paul and Luke. And he's not with Peter. And yet John Mark is the author of the Gospel of Mark. And knows Peter well enough. To write down his entire. Preaching ministry. And you and I still have it today. It's the Gospel of Mark. That means John Mark has to spend a good amount of time with Peter. To be able to learn all of that. To consume all of that knowledge. And also build that relationship. I don't think there's enough time. Once you start looking at the number of years. From that scene where Peter is freed from Herod. In AD 44. 46 to 48 there's a missionary journey. 49 there's a Jerusalem Council. 49 to 52 is the second missionary journey. Maybe if you want the eight years between 52. To 60 where Peter writes first Peter. Okay. I'll admit if you want to argue that when you can have it. But by 64. The relationship with Peter is already restored. Because Peter's like you'll get me John Mark. He's good. The biggest gap of time. That's available. For Peter to invest his life. In John Mark. Is from AD 30. To AD 46. That's only 16 years. That's what I did all this math. I sat at my computer and I was like. But how long did they actually have spent time together. Realistically. Now that doesn't mean that every time. John Mark came home. Right because his mom lives where? Jerusalem. They travel around and they come back to Jerusalem. Doesn't mean every time he comes home. Maybe he doesn't get to see Peter. But Peter dies. In like AD 64 to 67. Peter and Paul are executed by the emperor Nero. So it can't be the last two years. Because he was already traveling with Paul. He was already traveling with one of us. Why is that important? Again. Because it's my sermon and I like John Mark. But the real reason that it's important. Even if. Let's just take the math again. Let's take the maximum available time. Let's say John Mark is one of the 120. Believers that are in the upper room in Acts Chapter two. Let's say that John Mark was there. For the pouring out of the Holy Spirit. In a D 30. That means Peter. Had a maximum of 16 years. For John Mark to. Learn his preaching ministry to be able to write it down. And to develop a relationship with Peter. That Peter would call it his son. Before he died. And he was a Christian. That Peter would call it his son. Before John Mark traveled with Paul. And then John Mark traveled with Barnabas. 16 years of Peter's life. Paul gained a ministry partner. And you and I have the gospel of Mark. I don't know about you, Connor. That sounds like a pretty good investment of 16 years. 16 years. Gave Paul. A partner to travel with. And then somebody to call to his side. When everybody else had abandoned him. And also. Gave us what you and I now read as the gospel of Mark. The reason I chose John Mark. Is number one of a glut for punishment. And I wanted a character that's hard to find. But what I found. Is a young man who changed the pages. Of Christian history. Who sat. Literally. And ate with Peter. Literally. Ate with Paul. Abandoned Paul. And then he was. Abandoned Paul. And then Paul still calls him a brother. That says hey man he's good for you. This young man is a first century hero. And he's the product. He's not the guy doing the investment. He's the guy who was invested in. Now yes. John Mark likely. Followed the same process. And poured into others. We just don't know who they were. Right? I can only give you the information. That the page gives me to tell you. But John Mark. Is the product. Of intentional personal investment. If 16 years could change. John Mark's life that much. What could a couple years of your life. Investing in someone else too. That's why I chose John Mark. He's just a random. Literally just a random kid. He was probably born. After Jesus was born. So he would have been one of the younger kids. If he was there. In Acts chapter 2. If he was part of the earliest church. He was a younger kid. He's probably the same age as Timothy. Right? They're the young and up-and-comers. While the rest of us old guys are up here. Being gray and old. Okay cool. Sidebar. Every time I mention. How old I am. My children sing the Jurassic Park theme song. If your kids aren't doing that for you. Consider yourself blessed. And right now they're going. I want you to understand. That you have a responsibility. To pour your faith. Into others. You could be the next Peter. Pouring into John Mark. You could be the next Mary. The mother of John Mark. Where do you think John Mark learned his faith from the first. The first. The second. Where do you think John Mark learned his faith from the first place. I guarantee you. I know where Timothy got his faith. From his mama and his grandmama. As Paul told us so. Where did John Mark get his faith? I would say likely his mother. John Mark's father is more than likely Roman. And Gentile. John Mark's mother was Jewish. So I'm going to argue that. John Mark likely got his faith. From his mama. And then it got. Invested in. By Peter and by Paul. I got a couple of verses here. Eric to be honest. I'm not going to read them all. I included them in the notes because I want you to see them. I just want to make sure you fully understand. That you have a responsibility. To be a disciple maker. So I just want to read you a few verses to establish. This is letter F in your notes. The universal call of disciple making. Number one. Everybody is called to make disciples. Matthew 28, 19 through 20. That's the great commission. I believe you are now a disciple maker. So we are going to all the world to make disciples. Baptizing them. Father, son, the Holy Spirit. Teaching them all that I have commanded you. And I will be with you to the end of the age. That command is to you directly. Many people think it's the great commission. Like he commissioned the church to do the job. I believe that's a misunderstanding in the past. It is the great Co. Put a dash in their mission. It is your mission to make disciples. It is your mission to make disciples. right now. It is your mission to make disciples. We do the mission collectively together, but it is not our collective mission. It is our individual mission that we accomplish collectively. The reason that's so important is it is not enough to go to church and give money and expect somebody else to be a disciple maker. That's not okay. Please come to church and give your money. That's fine. Do that all day long. The trustees will love you. The budget team's gonna be super happy, but that doesn't make disciples. What makes disciples is intentional relational investment in people. In case you thought I wasn't being specific enough, 2nd Timothy chapter 2 verses 1 through 2, men are called to disciple other men. Titus chapter 2 verses 3 through 5, women are called to disciple other women. Acts chapter 18 verses 24 to 26, married couples are called to disciple people together. That's the Paul and Apollos or the Apollos with Priscilla and Aquila passage. And the big one that I never want you to forget, Deuteronomy chapter 6 verses 5 through 9, parents are called to disciple their children. Those are your responsibility. Or maybe, say it better, those are our responsibility. It's my job to disciple my children. My job to stand arm-in-arm with my wife and disciple anybody that God puts in our path. You know what's not my job? To disciple your children. You know what's not Pastor Tyler's job? To disciple your children. My job to disciple you. It's your job to disciple your children. It's your job to disciple that young man that's in your life or that young woman that's in your life or that co-worker or that neighbor or that basketball player. Is Jesse's looking good today? It is our collective responsibility to pour ourselves into those who need it. Just like Peter poured into John Mark. Just like Paul poured into Timothy. And again, to quote Pastor Rick, Christianity will die if we don't do our job. Because we're always one generation away from extinction. So let me give you the takeaway and then we'll do, we got time, Mel, I got time for like maybe 10 minutes for questions. Let me give you the takeaway. Here it is. John Mark reminds us that disciples are formed through patient investment in relationship. Christian maturity is not a solo pursuit. It is a shared responsibility. I gave you the story of John Mark merely as an example. You have to decide who is God put in my life for me to learn from and who is God put in my life to teach others.