Well, good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you to all of you who are joining us online. Thank you for being a part of the extended Catalyst family. Now here at Catalyst, we have a simple vision. Our vision is simply to be a community that represents Jesus that does three things. We want to be a community that represents Jesus by building relationships. What's another one? Meet needs and mature Christians. So we want to meet needs, build relationships, and mature Christians. That is why we are here as a church. This morning we're going to dive deep into that concept of maturing Christians. How exactly does that happen? So whether you are here or you're joining us online, I want to encourage you to use the Catalyst app during the sermon for a couple of reasons. Number one, today's sermon has a lot of scripture in it, and rather than you feverishly have to take notes, I have built sermon notes in our app for you. So if you open the Catalyst app, you can see the box there. It's blue. It's got a white notebook on it. It says sermon notes. If you open that up, it's going to give you all of the sermon notes for today and a place to take notes and a place to ask questions. And then all the way at the bottom, you can actually email yourself everything. So if you were to write notes in during the service and you send that email to yourself, it will have all of my notes plus all of your notes that you added while we're in church. I want to encourage you to open that. So number one, you can get to the sermon notes. Number two, we will be taking questions at the end of the sermon today. The way to submit your questions is in the sermon notes. There's buttons throughout the notes that say ask a question, ask a question, ask a question. So you can find those right there. While you're getting there, let me give you the key thought that holds this series of messages together. Christian maturity is a shared cycle. We grow as we help others to do the same. Christian maturity is a shared cycle. We grow as we help others to do the same. And this simple process, this shared cycle of one generation of disciples raising up the next generation of disciples is exactly what the Christian faith has been doing since the beginning. My mentor, Pastor Rick, always used to say that the Christian church exists on the razor's edge of extinction. As soon as one generation no longer considers it valid or important to raise the next generation, the Christian faith would be over. Our faith is handed down from one generation to the next. And as soon as one generation decides, you know what, this is no longer important. It's just a fairy tale. It's just an idea. It's just one story among many. And we no longer hand it down. The Christian faith would be over. And yet that's not what's happened. Globally, we see expansions of Christianity in different areas of the world in different eras of time. But we have been handing down the same faith since the very first century when Jesus rose. Now, I have tried to utilize my best understanding to give you a simple process to follow. It's my job to train you and it's your job to make disciples, right? Because one of our visions as a church is to mature Christians. So in order to train you, and you can see, do we have this image in the notes? So Dino, can I have the green image, please? You can see here I've got four quadrants. And this is the process I want everybody to learn. And then later on today we're going to interact with this a little more. So in the upper right-hand corner, the lightest green, you see it says pre-Christian. Pre-Christians become believers when they place their trust in Jesus. Hopefully you have someone in your life who's a pre-Christian, who hasn't yet placed that full trust in Jesus. They're in the upper right quadrant. Then you go down to the lower right. After you place your trust in Jesus, you become a believer. Believers become followers when they grow in lifestyle obedience. That's what we're going to focus today. Believers become followers when they grow in lifestyle obedience. So you place your trust in Jesus. You begin growing in lifestyle obedience. Then you transition over to the lower left quadrant. When you become a follower, followers become disciple makers when they learn to explain what they believe and why they believe it. So you've placed your trust in Jesus. You're now growing in your lifestyle obedience to Christ. You're now learning what Christians teach and why we teach it, why we believe it. Then you transition up to the upper left-hand quadrant to become a disciple maker. Disciple makers intentionally share their faith, investing in others who grow, trust, and learn. Once you reach that fourth quadrant, it's not like the journey is over. Again, because we have to have a generation of people who can train the next. So it's not over just because you become a disciple maker. I would submit that it just keeps getting deeper. We never stop learning. We never stop becoming more like Christ. It's a lifelong journey. So I want to make one other point. You have to accept the reality that you are responsible to help others take these steps of trusting, growing, and learning. Now today we are going to focus in on the second step, which is the lower right quadrant, where believers have to grow in lifestyle obedience. And as I said, today's got a lot of scripture, and I want to explain why. So in the month of December, as I was getting ready for this series, I did a deep dive on Christian habits. There is a myriad of books out there on discipleship. I don't think that I'm any smarter or any better than any of those authors. But one thing we can do is we can look at how Christian discipleship has been taught over the last thousand years or even over the last 10 years and see what are the commonalities. And there's some very popular book. Donald Whitney wrote a book called Habits of the Christian Life. Francis Chan wrote a book called Multiply. And if you just go to Amazon and you type in Christian discipleship book, you're likely to find a myriad of selection. So what I did was I said, OK, let's hack this. Let's let's let's throw some ADHD spice on it, sprinkle it in there and see what happens. So I looked up the top 25 books that have been written on Christian discipleship over the last 200 years. And then I analyzed them and I said, what are the habits that everyone agrees are biblical? And then I took that list and I put it through another filter, which is that if I'm going to stand up here and I'm going to stand in this place and tell you the word of God expects you to do X, Y and Z in your daily life, then we should be able to prove that that expectation existed in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. And I'm telling you this upfront. This was my filter. If I'm going to say I believe these habits should be a part of lifestyle obedience as a follower of God, then I should also be able to show you that it was God's expectation for his people to do these things in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. Because if not, then one could just argue, well, Claudia, maybe that's just New Testament Christianity. And it's not really part of God's character. So I tell you that because as we go through the sermon today, I'm going to establish each point that I make using scriptures from both the Old Testament and the New Testament, because both testaments represent God's people following him. They are different because they are under different covenants, different covenant terms for how God's people related to him. But they are the same in the sense that it is still God's people worshiping God. Everybody tracking with me so far. So we are going to read a lot of scripture today. I am not going to be able to big Bible story every single verse. That's why it's important. I want you in the notes. I want you to be able to email it to yourself. But I wanted to show you that I believe and you know, so you could if you're like jotting something in the margin, you could say these are Pastor Bill's seven habits of a healthy Christian. I'm going to stand here today and tell you that I believe these seven habits should be present in your life. If you are a Christ follower and I'm going to ground that in the concept that I can see these seven habits exist in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. Everybody with me so far. All right. So letter a in your notes is God expects lifestyle obedience. God expects lifestyle obedience and I chose that term specifically because I think there is a misunderstanding that can happen sometimes when we use the word obedience. We think about it as a single interaction or an event is my child obedience at school is my child obedient when I tell them do the laundry is my child obedient when fill in the blank when the reality is obedience is seen over time. Obedience can be a singular event, but lifestyle obedience is obedience in the way we live our life every single day. And so I'm using that term or I'm pointing that term lifestyle obedience to illustrate that we are to obey God. But we are to obey God in every aspect of the way we live. Right. We're not just Christians on Sundays when we come to church. You're not just Christians because you're watching the live stream whether in your living room in your kitchen or in your car. You're in your car. Please drive safely. But I believe that God expects his people to be obedient in their lifestyle every day and it work and at home. So in order to ground this first principle that God expects lifestyle obedience. I'm going to give you four verses two from the Old Testament two from the new. We're going to start in first Peter chapter one verses 15 and 16. But just as he who called you is holy. So be holy in all you do for it is written be holy because I am holy. Now first Peter is quoting from the Old Testament. So let's go to where he's quoting Leviticus chapter 44 the first part of that verse. So Leviticus 44 a I am the Lord. That's Yahweh covenant God your God. Consecrate yourselves and be holy because I am holy. And just to double down here's another set Deuteronomy 26 16 the Lord your God commands you this day to follow the decrees and laws. Carefully observe them with all your heart and with all your soul. And another New Testament echo John 14 verse 15. If you love me keep my commandments. So this first point gets four verses two in the old two in the new to establish one very clear point. It is God's expectation that his people live. For him and not for themselves. And that you saw in the Leviticus verse that word consecrate the word consecrate is really important and it comes across as super religious and super tricky. So let me try to break down what this word consecrate means because it really is rooted in the idea of holiness. So the word holy means what to be set apart. So when the Bible uses the word holy it means to be set apart. It means to be set aside for God's purpose. It's not a when we use the word unholy we often use it in a bad context unholy just means not set apart for God. Usually when we say something unholy is happening we're meaning something sinful is happening and that is true. But there's also mundane things tying my shoes is that holy. Did God set aside my right shoe for my left shoe considering I'm wearing boots that have no shoelaces that would be really hard for me to do. So there are certain things in life that are mundane. They're just every day every day we put pants on usually one leg at a time. If you're one of those jump hop and get both legs all the time guys I would like to hear about that on your connect card. But when God uses the word consecrate he is saying very specifically that we have been set aside for a specific purpose. So I would like to use an analogy to explain the importance of this. So when you get ready ladies when you get ready to get married you have to go buy a very special piece of clothing right. You have to go shopping and there are very special stores that sell this very special item and that very special item is a very special color. What item am I talking about the wedding dress right. The dress what color is it white and ladies that have been married. How many times you wear the wedding dress. I mean anybody anybody pull it back out just to wear it as a costume right. I'm not talking about your daughter's pulling out mom's wedding dress to dress up. I mean anybody actually pull out their wedding dress within the same marriage just to wear it again. Just throw that throw that joker on and feel good about myself. No that dress is set aside for his very specific event a very specific moment. That is what consecrated means it means something very special that has been set aside for a very special purpose. Now ladies those of you who still have your wedding dress at home my wife's wedding dress is in a box it has moved with us everywhere everywhere we've been for the last 20 years. My wife's wedding dress stays in our house. How odd would it be and June since you're sitting there and you're looking good today I'm going to pick on you. How weird would it be June if you came over the house to hang out with Melanie and Melanie is in the driveway car jacked up and she's in her wedding dress changing the oil on her van. Does anybody think that would be odd right. Mel's got this perfect beautiful wedding dress. I know how beautiful it was because I was the one watching her walk down the aisle trying not to faint the day we got married. My uncle was standing on one side my boss the pastor church I was going to stand on the other beautiful white dress and it's still white to this day because it stays in the box and we never pull it out. But it would be really odd and and and you'd have to June you'd have to ask Mel what were you doing girl you okay. If you came outside and you saw my wife in her wedding dress changing the oil underneath her car laying on the ground crawling just putting stuff all over why would you not do that is that white dress won't be white anymore and it will never go back to the way it was. This is what it means to be consecrated for God. Anytime you take something that's set apart for a special purpose and you use it for a purpose other than directed. You are taking something that is holy, and you are using it in a non holy fashion. When I use the term lifestyle obedience. I am trying to communicate to you that you have been washed clean of your sin. You are dressed in all white before God, you stand with Christ's righteousness covering our own filth, you are stark white stop changing the oil in your dark white dress. If ladies, if you lived every single day of your life after your wedding in your wedding dress, how many things would you not be doing anymore. Would it not change the way you live. If you understood that your life was consecrated the way that dress in our culture is concentrated. Jen if you had to go to work every day in your wedding dress. How white would it be. Probably not very. You'd have all kinds of hair colors on it right. You'd be like this was this customer this was this customer this was this customer. Why because you would be taking something that's consecrated for a moment and living it out every single day it would have to change the way you live. This is my best argument. You should live differently as a Christian, we should give Jesus our obedience, because he has consecrated us, he has made us clean, and he has set us aside for him. And it's like living every single day in your wedding dress. You wouldn't crawl on the ground and change the oil. You wouldn't go outside, dig brand new holes in the dirt. You would live differently. If you were in a wedding dress every single day. Praise Jesus ladies you don't have to do that. Okay. I know that when my wife got married, she, or when we married I should say my wife got married we got married that day. Melanie's getting ready and she's got her mom, she's got her sisters, she's got her best friend, and she's doing the hair and they're doing the makeup and all of a sudden Melanie goes. And it was an entourage of people to help Melanie deal with the poof and everything. It changes the way you live when you realize that you're set apart for something, even your everyday activities become different, because you're set apart. That's why this is the one point that had four verses to it, and I need you to put that picture in your mind. You need to live differently. Now, in the quickest way that I can, I want to present seven habits of a healthy believer. These seven things. I believe are biblically valid for me to require in your life. Say that again so I'm very clear. I believe the seven points that I give you today are biblically valid in both the Old Testament and the New Testament, and therefore I have the right to say, these should be in your life. Everybody ready. Here we go. Point number one. Believers should connect to a community. I'm going to come right out the gate and say there is no such thing as a healthy Christian on an island by themselves. So many people want to tell me, well, you know, I got saved at home and I, I worship at home and I read the scriptures at home. That's fantastic. Jesus can totally save that random person on an island. You know what he can't do. He can't connect that person on an island to a community and keep them on an island by themselves. I believe it is a biblical expectation that believers are to be connected to a community. Let me show you. First we're going to go to Exodus, chapter 19. This is Moses on the mount, talking to God. Here we go. Exodus 19 starting in verse three. Then Moses went up to God and the Lord called to him from the mountain and said, This is what you are to say to the descendants of Jacob. What you are to tell the people of Israel. And this is quote from God. You yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt and how I carried you on Eagles wings and brought you to myself. Now, if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all the nation, you will be my treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words you are to speak to the Israelite. Notice God is speaking about Israel in the collective. He is not speaking in the individual. The individuals are included in the collective. But when God says you are to be holy, you are to be a holy nation. It is the entire nation of Israel that is set aside for God, which is why every individual Israelite was set aside for God. Yes, they were in covenant with him. But in a different way that you and I are, they were in covenant with him as a holy nation. So where do we find this in the New Testament? Fast forward to first Corinthians, chapter 12, verses 12 through 14. This should sound really familiar. Just as a body, the one has many parts, but all its many parts form one body. So it is with Christ for we were all baptized by one spirit. So as to form one body, whether Jews or Gentiles, slave or free, we were all given the one spirit to drink. Even so, the body is not made up of one heart, but many. So this is the apostle Paul in the New Testament explaining that you're not a Christian just because you're on an island, especially to the Corinthians. They have some really crazy wackadoodle ideas. He's saying, why are we one body? Because we were all saved by one Savior. We are all baptized into one family. And in our highly individualistic culture, you often think about your faith as only yours. Right. Rob thinks about his faith and Hannah thinks about her faith and Megan thinks about her faith and Jim, when he thinks, thinks about his faith sometimes. Right. But do you realize that it in the same way that my oldest daughter was adopted into my family, she is now a full-fledged member of my family. My children have another sibling because my daughter was adopted. She's no less my daughter, no more my daughter. She is my daughter in the same way that my other children are. In the same way, every single one of us who belongs to Christ was adopted into the overall body of Christ. Some of you are looking really good. You could be the eyelashes. You could be those nice big cheekbones. Jim, you could be a toenail. It's OK. We need those too. I didn't get to pick on him last week, so I got to catch up. In our individualized culture, we don't like hearing that we need to be part of a group. But I submit to you that there is no theological escape from the reality that every believer is a member of the body of Christ. The only difference is whether that believer is healthy by being connected or unhealthy by staying resistant. There is no such thing. I will say there is such a thing as a person who can get saved on their own. Absolutely. Jesus can appear in a dream, reveal himself to a person, and that person instantly give their life to Christ with no external human being a part of that process. Yes, that person can be saved alone. They cannot be matured alone because we are a community. We are designed to mature one another in relationship. And if I want to take the Holy Nation one step further, what is the collective church in relationship to Jesus? The church is the bride of Christ. Dudes, I know that's really hard for us, but I use the wedding dress analogy. Just go with it. It's hard for us to realize that we are all collectively united to Christ because it is his church that is his bride. So point number one, I believe the Bible requires you to be in community. Point number two, you need to reread the Bible. No, that's not a typo. That's on purpose. You need to reread the Bible. Let's first go to Deuteronomy, Chapter six, verse four through nine, very popular verse. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, with all your strength. These commandments that I give you today are to be on your hearts. Impress them on your children. Talk about them when you sit at home and when you walk along the road, when you lie down and when you get up, tie them as symbols on your hands and bind them on your foreheads. Write them on the door frames of your gates. This is known as the Shema, very popular in Jewish theology. This is the foundation of their relationship with God. We can bring that forward to to Second Timothy, Chapter three, verses 16 and 17. Here's the New Testament echo of the same principle. All scripture is God breathed and useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in righteousness so that the servant of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work. It is the expectation of God that you spend time with his word. Old Testament, New Testament still there. God has revealed himself in his word. It is his expectation of us as his people that we will spend time reading his word, learning his word. Now, the Deuteronomy passage also says impress them on your children. Should be talking about this stuff at home. I would not recommend coming to my dining room table conversation because we go from everything from talking about theology to did the moon landing really happen? Is there a flat earth? Are we going to lose gravity sometime in August? I mean, we put the tin foil hat on in my dining room table a lot, but we also talk about God. We talk about his word. We talk about the reality of faith. It is the expectation of both the Old Testament and the New Testament that believers will spend time in the word. Now, as an ADHD or myself, let me say sometimes I read the Bible and the back burner of my brain keeps chasing rabbit. That happens to anybody else. Hear me out. I have found that one of the best ways for me to spend time with the Bible is not to read it, but to listen to it. I can focus on the Bible being auditory in my ears more than I can focus reading it with my eye. Now, it took me a long time to figure that out. Took me a long time to figure out that when I'm studying and I've got my computer and, you know, I'm digging into things, that's the full brain being activated. But if I'm just sitting in a chair and I'm just trying to read the Bible just to read it, I can get very easily distracted by sounds around me, things around me. So I use an audio Bible. The other thing I like about an audio Bible is you're not distracted by any of the other things that are on the page in your Bible, like the notes at the bottom or the colored maps, the pictures, or even the headings. The headings are not scripture. The headings are added by the publisher. If you're reading an NIV Bible, Zonderville Publications put those headings right there. If you're reading an HCSB Bible, that's Thomas Nelson Publishing, put those headers right there. That's not scripture. I do have a Bible that's up in my office called a Reader's Bible, and there are no headers. There's no chapters. There's no verses. It's just the text of scripture on a clean white page. Anybody wants to come see it after church, just come get me. I'll go get it from my office. It's amazing. It's enjoyable to just read the text of God's Word. The reason I made this point, re-read the Bible, is the Word of God never expires. You don't just read the book of Genesis once. Check it off the list and never go back to it. We continually study and re-read and spend time with God's Word because, A, it is His expectation, B, it is also the tool by which God perfects our faith. The second Timothy verse. What is scripture useful for? Teaching, rebuking, correcting, training in righteousness so that, or because of, or for the reason that, the servant of God may be thoroughly and truly righteous. The servant of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good word. If you do not have time in your week where you actively spend time in the Word, you need to fix that and fix it quick. It is a biblical expectation. Now, for those of you who have the Catalyst app, there is an active Bible in the Catalyst app, and it also has a built-in audio Bible. I think it also has like six different translations. I prefer the NIV. That's why, that's probably the one that will load as soon as you download the app because that's the one I pick, because that's the one I teach out of. But if you don't like the NIV, I think there's like six other choices in there. Pick one that speaks to you, pop it on when you're driving, and instead of listening to a podcast, or instead of listening to the news or jamming out to your favorite mixtape, because I'm that old, we used to do that. Throw the scriptures on for a minute, man. Throw on a book. If it's a short drive, pick a New Testament letter. If it's a longer drive, pick an Old Testament history book. And just let the Word of God fill your car. I mean, it's 2026. Let's get creative with the way we can take in the Word. But make no mistake about it, God expects you to be in His Word. Number three, the third expectation that I believe you must have in your life is you should be communicating with God. Generally, we call this prayer. It can also be worship. So that's why I called it Communicate with God. Take a look at Psalm, verse 55, 16, and 17. As for me, I call to God, and the Lord saves me. Evening, morning, and noon, I cry in distress, and He hears my voice. The New Testament echo of this is 1 Thessalonians, chapter 5, 16 to 18. Rejoice always. Pray continually. Give thanks in all circumstances, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. It is God's expectation that His people will speak to Him. I don't think I can make that any clearer. Prayer ought to be a functional part of your daily life. Now, when I say prayer, a lot of people want to come back and be like, well, what do you mean by that? This is what I mean by prayer. I do not mean that you have to sit and find a super quiet place and light some candles and get the right smell going on and play your favorite worship track in the background and, Lord God, I beseech you on behalf of my incredibly trying people. No. What I mean is the Bible talks about praying without ceasing. The Bible talks about speaking to God in every moment of the day. I mean, open up the bat phone that's in the back of your mind and experience your entire day talking to God about it. Experience everything. You're commute to work. The number of times I have to go, Jesus, we need to help that dude. That man forgot to use a turn signal. Melanie would be mad at him. Right to when you're walking, walking into work, Lord, I'm really not sure what this meeting is about. Please help my anxiety. Help me to experience this the way you would want to. You're in the grocery store and there's either some family ruckus over here. Lord, help them. How about driving by a car accident? Holy Spirit, I pray for that family right now. I don't even know who they are. But God, you know what's going on. Lord, give them grace. Help the ambulance to get here quickly. Or you're driving by the hospital and you say, Lord, help that person. What I mean is not being so self-centered into thinking about the fact that you are the center of your life, but realize that God is ultimately the main character of the story of reality. And we're all just the side quest characters. We're all the NPCs playing along with him. So include him in your entire day. Include him in the way you live your life. I mean, look at the way Psalm said he said morning, evening, noon. I cry out in years. My distress, Thessalonians rejoice always pray continually. There is no reason that you cannot have an ongoing dialogue with God throughout your day. I don't mean that that means you have to live like a monk in a monastery and divide yourself away. There are good times for that. There are good times to have solitary moments of solitude of meditation on the word. Yes, those are good things. I'm not saying that I want you to turn your entire day into what we Christian ease. We call like a quiet time, a devotional time. What I mean is that we should have a daily habit of communicating. That's why I called it communicate with God instead of just pray. I mean, communicate with God. I hear you're super honest with you. There are some sunny mornings I walk into church and I don't want to be here. Is that shocking? Are you excited to walk into work every single time you walk into work? No, there are some sunny mornings I walk in here and I'm so overridden with anxiety and I'm like, God, I just need your help not to screw up. Right. Like sometimes I come to work and I'm like, OK, goal for today. Don't suck out loud. That's all I got. Don't forget something. Make sure you read your notes. Like I there are days I walk in this building and I am just riddled with anxiety and I don't want to be here. I want to go back home and take a nap and we'll just let Jim T. That'd be fine. Church will be over shorter. So I walk in the door and I go, God, this is how I'm feeling. I recognize I could feel it. I could feel it in my stomach. I could feel it in my nerves. I could feel that worry on the back of my mind. But God, I have a job to do and you have placed me here. You've called me here. Sometimes I have to remind myself of the story of how I got here. I got that random email from Bill. I go, God, help me to do a good job even when I don't feel good enough to be here. That's still openly communicating with God. I'm not saying everything is a quiet time. I'm saying that God is a part of your every day. Number four, I believe it is God's expectation that you change your lifestyle. Take a look at Deuteronomy, Chapter 10, verses 12 to 13. And now Israel, what does the Lord God ask of you but to fear the Lord your God? Walk in obedience to him, love him, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and observe the Lord's commands and decrees that I am giving you today for your own good. I purposely tried to choose some Exodus-based passages and some Deuteronomy-based passages so you would see that even before and after the wilderness wandering, God's expectations on his people didn't change. And you could hear an echo of that in Ephesians, Chapter 4, 22 to 24. You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires, to be made new in the attitude of your minds, and to put on the new self created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. It is God's expectation in Old Testament and New Testament that once you become his child, you stop living like your old self and live like your new self. Preachers back in the day used to call that the difference between the old man and the new man, right? I am a new creation and therefore I live differently. The way I like to say it is this. If your life before and after Jesus looks the same, then we could just do some simple math. If Bill plus Jesus equals Bill by himself, do the math. What does Jesus equal? Zero. It's really that simple. Bill plus Jesus should equal something different than Bill before Jesus or Bill without Jesus. And that's the difference that he makes. It is God's expectation that our lifestyle changes when we are part of his family. And this one's going to hit deep for anybody who's ever been to the wilderness. It's going to hit deep for anybody who's been a Christian for an extended period of time. Maybe you've been a church goer for an extended period of time. Here's the problem. Sometimes people come to Christ, they get excited, they start doing discipleship, they learn how to pray, they start listening to their favorite worship music, and then all of a sudden you hit a plateau and you're like, I am holy enough. Stop. And we just stop growing. And I'll just tell you honestly, you can be a spiritual toddler for 70 years. And I'm not pointing at any one person and I'm not even pointing out any one person in our church. But I can tell you from 20 something years of ministry experience, there are spiritual toddlers in almost every church that I've been in. People who started growing were excited and then hit a plateau and just stopped giving their life to Jesus. They wanted their salvation. They gave their soul to Jesus. I definitely want to be in heaven, God. I want the non-smoking section in eternity. But I don't want to keep changing my life to live for your kingdom. They just stopped maturing. It is God's expectation, Old Testament and new, that we consistently and daily walk in obedience. And I like the way Paul puts it in Ephesians, between the old self and the new self. The new you that came up out of the waters of baptism, the new you that is redeemed by Christ ought to have a different lifestyle than the old you. And if there's not, then I question the validity of your salvation. I'll say it out loud. I do. Do I have the right to claim that you're not saved? No, I don't. I do not have that right. That exists at the boss's office. I'm just middle management. That's an executive C-suite decision. I don't get that. But how do you know an apple tree is an apple tree? Because it grows apples. If somebody showed you a tree and said, that's an apple tree, and it's never grown a single apple, could they be telling the truth? Yes, it could be an immature apple tree, an apple tree that never reached maturity to bear fruit. Still an apple tree. But I see no evidence of it. I'm a human being, and I can only look at this plane of existence. I do not get God's special X-ray vision to see into your soul. That's why it's so important. The biggest testimony we could ever give Jesus is a transformed life. The way people see us after Jesus and see the difference before Jesus. Number five, learn the faith. You have a responsibility to learn the faith. Let's go back to Deuteronomy 31, 12 to 13. Assemble the people, men, women, children, foreigners residing in the towns so they can listen and learn to fear the Lord your God. And follow carefully all the words of this law. Their children who do not know this law must hear it and learn to fear the Lord your God as long as they live in the land that you are crossing the Jordan to possess. And you can see a huge echo of this in Matthew 28, again, very popular passage. Then Jesus came to them and said, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore, go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit and the most forgotten part. And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. The way we change our lifestyle is by learning what God's expectations are. We learn from the word and then we live it out. And then you take the next step. You learn something new from the word and then you live it out. And then you take another step, learn something from the word and live it out. It is your responsibility to make your lifestyle match scripture. It's not mine. Listen, I got enough going on with my lifestyle to match scripture. I don't got time to fix yours. It's your responsibility to learn the things of the faith. It's your responsibility to adapt your lifestyle in obedience to Christ. And the only way we do that is to learn from the word. Number six, give yourself to others. I believe it is a biblically warranted responsibility that God's people give of themselves to others. Let's take a look at Isaiah chapter 58 verses 10 and 11. And if you spend yourselves in behalf of the hungry and satisfy the needs of the oppressed, then your light will rise in the darkness and your night will become like noon day. Verse 11, the Lord will guide you always. He will satisfy your needs in a sun scorched land and will strengthen your frame and you will be a well watered garden like a spring whose waters never fail. I'm sure that all sounds super encouraging, but it's the reason I put the verse 10 in front of it. It was the expectation of God through Isaiah that you would spend yourselves in behalf of the hungry and satisfy the needs of the oppressed. Then your light will rise in the darkness and your night will be like a new day. We can see an echo of this in Galatians chapter five, 13 and 14. You, my brothers and sisters, were called to be free, but do not use your freedom to indulge the flesh. Rather, serve one another humbly in love, for the entire law is fulfilled in keeping this one command. Love your neighbor as yourself. Old Testament and New Testament, God expects his people to serve others. I don't think that's a hard concept to grasp, but it's a hard concept to live. Now, I would submit to you that in 2026, in the way that our church operates, we serve others in different ways. Some of you serve here in the church in different ministries. Some of you work with the missions team or you work and serve people outside the church. Some of you do things on an individual basis that aren't even related to the church. All of those things are good and right. I'm not trying to say, and I will say this, I don't like it when pastors get up behind the pulpit and they find verses that use the word serve. And then they limit the scope to only serving in the church. I don't think that's accurate. That's why I wanted the Deuteronomy passage first. It's God's expectation that we as his people will serve the needy, will serve the broken. Now, some of that is done through the collective way we serve the church, right? There's a clothing drive happening right now where we're collecting clothes for the church. That's a corporate way that we band together. We combine our funds. We combine our strength and we can do things that way. But it's also God's expectation that you serve people on an individual basis. Something that I know. Trying to remember who it is. I think it's Dave Ramsey, the guy who carries a dollar in his pocket that doesn't belong to him. I think it's Dave. I saw a podcast one time where a Christian man said he took he took a certain amount of money. And he put it in his wallet and he prayed to God first and he said, God, this is yours. Tell me when to use it. And so he put that and I'll just call it a 20. I don't think it was. But let's just call it a 20 dollar bill. Put a 20 dollar bill in your wallet or in your purse. But before you put it in there, you dedicate it to God. You say, Lord, this is your money. Tell me when to use it. And that way, when you're out in public and you come across somebody that looks like they're in need, you come across somebody that's short at the grocery store. You come across somebody who just needs a hot meal. You have God's money ready for ministry sitting in your purse, sitting in your wallet. You just pull it out and go, here you go. God, do you want me to do this right now? Yes, that's good. Drive up your prayer life. You got to ask God, is this now the right time? That's a simple way of prioritizing serving others and having it on you every day. Something simple. Another thing that we do, like I said, is we band together as a church, right? We do certain ministry initiatives as a church. That is not the only way to serve others, but it is one way. I don't want to limit the scope and rule it out that we do do some pretty cool ministry things together. I know the missions team is working on a national missions trip for us this year. That's going to be great. We should be doing those things as a church, but we should also be serving others as individuals. So I don't want to one does not rule out the other. This is a both and initiative, not an either or. Finally, number seven. I believe it is a biblically warranted requirement that every believer should seek a mentor. Some of you just flex your eyebrows at me. Let me explain. Psalm verse 78. Let's look at verses four through seven. We will not hide them from their descendant. We will tell the next generation the praiseworthy deeds of the Lord, his power and the wonders he has done. He decreed statutes for Jacob and established the law in Israel. When he commanded our ancestors to teach their children so the next generation would know them and even the children yet to be born, they in turn would tear up hell their children. Then they would put their trust in God and would not forget his deed, but would keep his command. New Testament Echo, Second Timothy, Chapter two, verses one and two. You then my son. This is Paul speaking to Timothy. You then my son be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus and the things you have heard me say in the presence of many witnesses. Entrust them to reliable people who will also be qualified to teach others. I began this sermon by stating that the Christian church is always one generation away from extinction. It is our generation's job to mentor the next generation. Where the mentor is going to come from? Yes, you could argue, well, we have pastors and we have elders and we have deacons. So we're going to let them mentor. I just don't think that's enough. I don't think it's good enough. I think the clear biblical expectation, Old Testament and New Testament is every single believer is supposed to mentor somebody else. But if you've never done that before, if you've never stepped out of that box and taken charge and helped a brand new baby believer who doesn't know anything, how are you supposed to learn to do that? I submit the easiest way to learn how to mentor somebody is go get one. Many of you know I have had the same mentor for the last however many years I've been in ministry. Pastor Rick is always the voice of wisdom in my life. Holy Spirit often sounds like Melanie Yolmes, not going to lie, does. But Pastor Rick in his patience with me, in his grace with me, being there when I failed, being there when I said I was going to die. Being there when I succeeded to hold back my pride. Being there when I failed to lift me up because my pride was crushing. I believe that every single believer should have somebody in that wisdom kind of like Jedi Master category who's helping you to navigate through your faith. Because I believe every one of you should be mentoring somebody else. The Old Testament required it. The New Testament requires it. The Great Commission requires it. How on God's green earth are we supposed to grow the church if we do not develop an entire army of disciple makers who are capable of mentoring others? So then that leads to the single inevitable question. You are either ready to disciple someone else or you are not. This is a binary choice. There is no middle ground. You are either at the maturity stage where you are capable of maturing somebody else or you are still growing to that stage and you need help to get there. I do not believe there is some sort of middle place where I am mature enough to disciple others, but God does not want me to do that. He just wants me to be proud and happy with my spiritual maturity. I just don't think there's a place for that. Because you know what that does? And I'm just going to use Ray because he's sitting over here looking really good today. That robs the church of what Ray has to give to other believers. It robs the church of what Jerry has to give to other believers. It robs the church of what Jim has to give to other believers. Let's give them some goodness. It robs the church of what Jerry has to give to other believers. Of what June has to give. If you expect the pastor to do all the discipleship, we are going to fail miserably at the role that God has left for us. That's why I believe it is biblically necessary that every single believer have a mentor and be preparing to mentor someone else in the faith. And let's just take a super obvious one. Ladies, there are certain things that an older Christian woman needs to share with a younger Christian woman that me and all of the other male deacons and elders have no place in that conversation. How are we supposed to disciple young women into the faith unless we release female disciple makers? How are we supposed to disciple young married couples in the faith if we don't release mature married couples? How are we supposed to disciple young men to become godly men if we don't release godly men to make disciples? If you've not been actively mentored, that might sound spooky. I know this is going to make you laugh, but I do believe one of the best examples of modern day mentorship in pop culture are the Jedi from Star Wars. In fact, no joke, I think Dr. Doug is in our live chat this morning. Whenever I call him or I send him a text, he's Qui-Gon in my phone book. Because Qui-Gon raised Obi-Wan and Obi-Wan was supposed to raise Anakin and he really screwed that up. So I identify more with an Obi-Wan. Not everybody I disciple is going to turn out really well. But they were personal. They spent time together. They traveled together. They talked together. They fought together. They camped out together. They shared meals together. The teaching that happened in that fictional universe that George Lucas created for us was relational in nature. Having a mentor is not the same as having a college professor. Now yes, Dr. Doug happens to also be one of my mentors. But that's because he and I built a friendship that exists outside of academia to where he could challenge me and I could challenge him and we could help each other grow. So I'm not going to re-preach all of these, but I just want to read them. Seven habits that I believe you should have in your life. Number one, you should be connected to a church community. Number two, you need to read and re-read the Bible. Number three, you need to be actively communicating with God. Number four, you need to be changing your lifestyle post Jesus to look different than it was before Jesus. Number five, you need to be learning the things of the faith. Number six, you need to be giving yourselves to others. And number seven, you need to be seeking a mentor. So before I give you the takeaway and we get to the Connect card, I want to point you to something else in the Catalyst app. So do me a favor. Everybody who has the app. Dino, if I could have the maturity check-in slide, that'd be super great. So I built a tool in the app that I would like everyone in our church to use. This goes for every single person who's watching online. Just because you're not sitting here doesn't mean I don't see you. You're through that little monocle lens that just keeps staring at me. No, not that one. It's, oh shoot, in the announcement. Okay, never mind. In the app, as soon as you open it, the very first screen you see is a guy and he's like checking his pulse. I created a tool and I want every single person to use. You can do it right now if you want to. You can take it home and do it later. But sometime this week, I need every single person to give themselves a maturity self-check. So if you click on that image, maturity self-check, you're going to see it brings you to a little explanation. It shows you the green graph again. And then you scroll down and there's a form. The form asks you for your contact information and one of the things that you need to do is to get the information. And one simple question. Which of these statements best fits where you are today? The first one says, I'm not sure I fully trust Jesus. That's the pre-Christian category. The second one, I trust Jesus, but I need to learn to live a Christian lifestyle. That's the believer category. My life centers on Jesus, but I need to learn more Christian beliefs. That's the follower category. And then I'm a growing disciple maker and I'm ready to help others. I want to inventory the maturity of every single person in our church. And I'm going to tell you exactly what I'm going to do with it. There's no secrets here. I have already pre-built the pieces of the database so that when you fill out this form, it's going to go into our computer. Why? Because then I have a roadmap of what you need next. I know how many people in the church need us to go deeper with lifestyle. I know how many people in the church need us to go deeper with theology and apologetics. And I know how many people in this church are ready to help me build disciples. How are we going to build a much larger discipleship engine if I don't find out where you think you really are? And there's no wrong answer to this test. You don't have to answer the answer that you think I want to hear. I just want you to be honest. Those of you who are married, ask your spouse. There's nobody that knows you better than the person who sees you getting out of the shower every day. They're going to tell you honestly how you really are. Check with your spouse. See if they agree with where you're at in your maturity. But I want every single person to do a maturity self-check because I want to be able to go, OK, let's just let's just make a fictional scenario here. Next week, we have a brand new person come to our church. They have raised in a non-religious home. They have no background. They've never read the Bible before in their life. I want to follow Jesus. What do we do next? I need to pair that person with somebody who will walk with them for the first year of their faith. Well, how am I going to know who to pair unless I ask you the church get on board with this whole disciple making thing and get in the game? Well, the only way I can know that is to know where you are. If you're not already at the disciple maker stage, I need to know how many people need to work on lifestyle issues. Maybe I need to go to Jerry. Jerry, maybe we need to make a small group for that. Maybe I need to go to the elders. Guys, we have this many people who say they need to learn the things that they need to learn. I think I need to create some kind of introduction of theology class. When can we do that? But I don't know what to build for you if I don't know where everybody is. So that's my big push. Sometime this month, I need every single person to take that. But now with those seven habits out, let me give you the takeaway. Usher's worship team. Oh, no, no, no, nobody move yet. Do you have any questions come in? Let me give you the takeaway as we get ready to bring this in for a landing. God expects his people to live set apart for him. We do this through healthy habits of lifestyle obedience. The seven habits that I mentioned this morning, I believe are biblically necessary in every single believer's life. If you do not have these seven habits active in your life, there's your homework. Pick one. I am not saying turn yourself into super Christian overnight. If there's one habit that I mentioned today, they're like, wow, I could probably work on that. Then do it. Tell me on your connect card what you're working on so I can come up behind you. I could find somebody to hold you accountable. But I believe those seven habits need to be in every person's life.