Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being a part of our worship, whether you are here in our Wilmington campus or you are part of our online campus family. Thank you for braving the weather and being a part of our service today. I think one of the fun things about having the online campus is one of the digital greeter made a comment this morning about how cold it is. And somebody who lives not here and not in our climate goes, yeah, I'm doing just fine. So I think it's very interesting the way we can be interconnected as a church family. We are going to be continuing our grow teaching series this morning. We've been working through what does the Christian growth cycle look like? And so for those who already have the app, I'm going to ask you to get out your phones and to go to the grow tool in the app because it's got the graphic that we're going to work on. If you are joining us either here online for the first time here in the Wilmington campus, there are QR codes like on the back of every chair in here. You can just scan that. You could also go to your favorite app store. Those of you joining us online, you can see on your screen it says catalyst 302.com slash app. There's buttons there for Google and Apple, whatever your particular brand is. But the reason that I want to ask you to use the app is that's where I stuck the graphic. Probably don't need to watch myself preach. You can turn that off. That's where I stuck the graphic for this morning. And I want to just review it so that we all understand kind of what our goal is this morning. So here's the key thought that's going to put all of these messages together. Growing in faith is a process all Christians are expected to pursue. Mature Christians lead others to grow. So growing in faith is a process everyone, every Christian is expected to pursue. You do not just place your faith in Christ and then nothing. That's not the Bible's expectation of the Christian life. The intention is that we begin our Christian life. That's why Jesus in John chapter 3 when he's talking to Nicodemus, he calls it being born again. The implication is that it's the beginning of a life, not the end. It's the beginning of growth, not the end. So every Christian is required and expected to grow. And then once you reach a certain place of maturity, mature Christians are supposed to help others to grow. So you never really leave the cycle. You never really get out of it. So if you're in our app, if you'll scroll down and you'll see one that says grow tool and it'll bring up an image. It's a blue circle with four quadrants. I just want to go over again. What are the four steps in the Christian growth cycle? The first is what I call a pre-Christian. This is someone who has not placed their faith in Christ yet. Pre-Christians become believers when they place their trust in Jesus. So if you are here this morning, if you're listening to the sermon and you have not placed your faith in Christ yet, then you're in the pre-Christian category. That's great. I hope we have those people in our services every single week so we can accomplish the mission. Once someone places their trust, you can see they transition from the upper right down here to the lower right. Then they become a believer. Believers become followers when they grow in lifestyle obedience. We looked at that last week. What does lifestyle obedience, living with kingdom loyalty, really look like? And that's a process that takes time. Then you transition from the bottom right over here to the bottom left and it says followers become disciple makers when they learn to explain what they believe and why they believe it. That's what we're going to talk about this morning. What Christianity teaches and why Christians should believe it. That's the follower stage. And then you transition up to the upper left hand. The disciple maker intentionally shares their faith and invites pre-Christians to trust in Jesus. That's it. Four simple steps. And the whole purpose behind this grow tool is, number one, for you to assess where you are on this path. If you have never placed your trust and faith in Jesus, then you're in the pre-Christian category. If you've done that but we're still working out some of that lifestyle issues, do I live as the Bible is my authority or do I live with my preferences as my authority, then you're in the believer category. If you've got most of your lifestyle issues on lock, but you haven't done a lot of learning as far as what does Christianity actually teach? And this is something I think a lot of modern day churches don't do well. We do well at helping people experience the Holy Spirit, but not learning the word that he wrote. And so we try to make sure here catalysts, we do both of those. Learning what we believe and why we believe it. And then ultimately, if you've already done all three of those, then you should be in that disciple maker category. Not keeping all of that knowledge, not keeping all of that lifestyle obedience to yourself. You should be helping the next generation of Christians to grow and learn what you have already learned. So a believer is someone who has placed trust in Jesus. This is last Sunday's message. That would be really helpful if I read the right one, wouldn't it? There we go. A follower is someone who trusts Jesus, whose lifestyle is obedient to Christ, and is learning what Christians believe and why they believe it. And I think the combining of the what and the why at this stage is very important. There's a lot of discipleship curriculum that's written to teach you what Christianity teaches. So what we teach is called theology. That's the big technical term for it. Theology is what Christianity teaches about God. In my opinion, that's really only half of what we should learn. We should not only learn what Christianity teaches, but side to side to that, we should also learn why on earth we should believe it. Because I can teach you what atheism teaches, but I can't teach you why you should believe it because I don't. I can teach you what Buddhism teaches, right? If it's just a cerebral exercise, if it's just a mental exercise, then there's no reasons behind it. So to me, when we teach, we need to teach theology, which is the what Christianity teaches. But we also need to teach apologetics, which is why we should believe it. Because it does me no good to teach you everything that you should know, but not teach you a single reason why you should actually know that or why you should believe that. So this morning, and I know typically this is where we would launch into the big Bible story, we would go to a single passage and I would walk through that singular passage. This morning we're not going to do that because I want to try in the next 30 or so minutes to teach you the what and the why behind one piece of Christian theology. And I'm going to give you the one that I get asked about the most, the Trinity. And so those of you who are nodding your heads, you realize I have put myself in a very, very steep climb. I'm going to do my best to not only teach you what the Trinity is, but why you should believe it in less than 30 minutes. Right? I know. Yeah, we're probably not going to make it, but let's just pretend that I have goals. All right, so we want to explore the what and the why of the Trinity. So first, let me tell you what the Trinity means, what that word means. The Trinity is the collective name that is used to describe the one in three nature of God as revealed in Scripture. That's what the word Trinity is. And before we get into it, let's start with the first objection. The number of times I hear people tell me, well, the word Trinity is not in the Bible, so I don't believe it. Anybody ever heard that? We shouldn't believe in the Trinity because the word Trinity is not in the Bible. Have you ever considered the reality that the word Jesus is actually not in the Bible? You know why? Because the word Jesus is an English word, and Jesus didn't speak English. The disciples didn't write in English. They wrote in Hebrew, in Greek, in Aramaic. So if our standard is, well, the word isn't there, so we don't believe it, we've made the wrong standard. The word Trinity is a theological word that was created to communicate a concept that is very present in the Scriptures. So the first objection is that the word Trinity is not in the Bible. We shouldn't believe it. You are correct. The word Trinity is not. But the concept of the Trinity comes directly from Scripture. The word Trinity was created in order to communicate a much larger concept than just any one word or any one verse. The Trinity describes one God who exists eternally in three persons. Literally, the word Trinity comes from tri-unity. That's where we get the word Trinity from. God is a triune being. Anybody ever heard that? The God head is three in one, or it can also be described as one in three. So now let me deal with the second contradiction that most people want to throw at you. Most people want to say, I don't believe in the Trinity, not because the word's not in the Bible, but the Trinity itself is a logical contradiction. You can't claim that there's three gods and there's one God. So let's deal with this. A logical contradiction is when something is both A and not A at the same time. For instance, the lights that are above our heads. If I were to claim that the light is both on and off simultaneously, that's a logical contradiction, right? Because A, the light is on, not A, the light's not on. Those two things are mutually exclusive. That's the standard law of non-contradiction. Anybody's ever taken reason or logic. That's what it means. The Trinity is not a logical contradiction because I am not claiming that there is one God who is, in fact, three different gods. That would be polytheism, right? If I was saying that there's one God who exists eternally as three gods, that would be a logical contradiction. But that is not the definition of the Trinity. The Trinity is one God who exists eternally in three persons. I'm not comparing A to A. I'm saying there's one A and there's three B. That is not a logical contradiction. I'm not saying one God in three gods. I am saying one God who is in three persons. I'm going to explain why we get to the three persons. But I need you to understand the two biggest objections to the Trinity. Number one, that it's not in the Bible. That's stupid. The word was invented to describe the concept that is absolutely from the Scriptures. Number two, the Trinity is not a logical contradiction. It's not one A in three A. It's actually one A in three B. God, as his nature and the persons of the Father, Son, and Spirit, the nature and the persons are not the same thing. So we can dispel with the idea that it's not in the Bible. We can dispel with the idea that it's not a logical contradiction. Now I want to show you why as Christians we believe what the Trinity is. So the first thing I need you to understand is that Scripture declares there is only one God. This is what's called classic monotheism, right? Mono meaning one. Theism from the Greek theos meaning God. There is one God. Now let's be honest. Christianity is not the only monotheistic religion in the world. Anybody can think of another monotheistic religion that's not Christianity? Islam, I heard that. Yes. Islam is a monotheistic religion. There's another one. Judaism. So Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. We are all in the monotheism category. We all believe there is only one God. It is only Christianity that believes the nature of the one God is the three persons. This is what makes Christianity unique from all of other world religions. Judaism, they're totally going to support there is one God. In fact, they're going to go to the same Scripture we go to in Deuteronomy that there is only one God. So I want to show you how we get to the concept of the Trinity by showing you the true statements from Scripture that build the concept. So first, Scripture declares there is only one God. And I'm going to fire a bunch of different verses at you. But that's because I want you to see. I didn't make any of this up. So first, Deuteronomy chapter 6 verse 4. This is the classic monotheistic verse for both Judaism and for Christianity. And it reads, Hear O Israel, the Lord your our God, the Lord is one. If anybody is familiar with the word Shema or Shema, this is the classic verse that God is one God. Just in case you were wondering, it's not only an Old Testament fact. We can also look at 1 Corinthians chapter 8 verse 4. There is no God but one. This is 1 Corinthians chapter 6 or chapter 8 verse 4. So Paul is writing to the Corinthians. He's writing in a polytheistic culture because guys, this is in the New International Bill version. Y'all don't get it twisted. There's only one God. And we can also see he writes in Galatians chapter 3 verse 20. God is one. Now this is generally not a problem for Christians. We all understand that we believe in one God. But you do have to understand that historically throughout the history of our faith, it hasn't always been that way. The doctrine of the Trinity was developed, refined, sharpened, and honed as we kind of walked through Christian history. And I'm going to show you some of the mistakes later. But I need you to understand point number one, Scripture declares there is only one God. The next thing I need you to understand, point number two, Scripture reveals that Jesus is God. This is foundational to Christianity. If you are a Christian, Jesus is God. If you do not believe Jesus is God, you are not a Christian. They are 100% mutually exclusive claims. So let me show you in Scripture why do we believe that Jesus is God. Let's look at John chapter 1 verse 1. Probably the most classic verse that people think of when we talk about Jesus being God. In the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God. And the Word was God. John here in John chapter 1 verse 1 absolutely linking the beginning of his Gospel to the very beginning of Scripture in the beginning. God created the heavens and the earth. I don't think it's a mistake that he uses that same term in the beginning. But John opens his Gospel knowing Jesus is God. We fast forward to John chapter 8 verse 58. This is Jesus speaking. Very truly I tell you, Jesus answered, before Abraham was born I am. So there's a lot of people out there who would like to try to tell you that Jesus was a good moral teacher but he never claimed to be God. Those people are not reading the New Testament documents correctly. Number one, how do you claim someone is a good moral teacher and they can claim to forgive sins like God can? That's not a good moral teacher. If Jesus was just a human, he was whack. That is my professional theological opinion. Jesus was whack if he was only human. Going to school for nine years just so I can make that statement. Jesus very clearly declared he is God. If you don't believe me, go to John chapter 8 and read the whole story. I'm only giving you the Jesus's one statement here but read the story. He's in the temple. They're asking him by what authority he teaches. He gives them this answer before Abraham was born I am and they pick up stones to kill him. His first century audience understood exactly what he was saying. They understood we're not trying to kill you because you're a man. We're trying to kill you because you think yourself a God. So if you go to John chapter 8, you will clearly see that Jesus claimed to be God. Let's also look at Matthew chapter 9 verse 2. Some men brought him a paralyzed man lying on a mat. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the man, take heart son, your sins are forgiven. Now Jesus is a first century Jew. There is no Jew on the planet that believes a human being can forgive sins. So this is another example where Jesus is clearly identifying himself as God. Only God can forgive sins because sins are done against God. So point number one is we understand that there's only one God. Point number two, scripture clearly states that Jesus is God. You with me so far? Okay, point one, there's only one God. Point two, scripture really is that Jesus is God. Here's point three, scripture reveals the Holy Spirit is God. Scripture reveals the Holy Spirit is God. The first example I'll give you is from Matthew chapter 28 verse 19. This is a very popular verse. You're probably going to recognize it. Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit. Do you notice that in that verse, the Holy Spirit is considered equal to the Father and the Son? So that in and of itself is an illustration of the deity of the Holy Spirit. But let's go a little further. How about Ephesians chapter two verse 18? This is Paul speaking. For through him, we both have access to the Father by one Spirit. If the Holy Spirit is the one who helps us access the Father, then the Holy Spirit has to be divine. He can't be non-divine and give us access to the divine. So Ephesians chapter two verse 18 also illustrates the divinity of the Holy Spirit. But here's my personal favorite, Acts chapter five. I'll give you a little backstory. Acts chapter five is the story of a husband and wife named Ananias and Sapphira. It is one of these stories in scripture that if I was there that day, Miss Nancy would have been awesome. So Ananias comes up, they give an offering, and they told the church publicly that the offering they were giving was the total amount that they got from selling a piece of property. When in fact, it was not. They kept a little bit for themselves. So let's say they gave 80% but called it 100%. That's what's happening here. Then Peter calls out Ananias and this is what he says, Acts chapter five verse three. Then Peter said, Ananias, how is it that Satan has so filled your heart that you have lied to the Holy Spirit? Fast forward to verse four. You have not just lied to human beings, but to God. That's my favorite verse for illustrating that the Holy Spirit is also God. When Peter is rebuking Ananias for his sinful lying about his offering, he clearly says in verse three, you have lied to the Holy Spirit. Verse four, by the way, you're not lying to us, you're lying to God. Peter is saying the Holy Spirit is God. Everybody tracking with me so far? So scripture clearly reveals there is one God. Scripture clearly reveals Jesus is God. Scripture clearly reveals the Holy Spirit is God. Do you now see the tension? There's only one God, God the Father. Jesus is God, God the Son. The Holy Spirit is God, God the Spirit. But there's only one God. I can totally see and let's just be super honest. I picked probably the most complex issue. We could have gone with anything in all of Christian theology. But I picked honestly, I picked the thing I get the most questions about. I get more questions about the Trinity than almost any other theological issue. You know, we can talk about the resurrection, we can talk about the validity of New Testament documents. This question right here, I get all the time. Why do we believe in the Trinity? Do you know why we believe in the Trinity? Because we believe that the Bible is God's word and what it teaches is true. And if it teaches that there is one God and Jesus is God and the Holy Spirit is God, then we have to work those statements out to something that makes sense. Now, again, I want to say that the definition of the Trinity, one God who exists eternally in three persons, is the summation of all that I just said from Scripture. Right? That one sentence, one God who exists eternally in three persons, is the summation of what Scripture teaches about God. I mean, I only used nine different verses. There are plenty more to be had to show that there is one God, to show that Jesus is God, to show the Spirit is God. I just gave you a selection of them to prove I didn't make it up. But the word Trinity is there to describe this tension that we see in Scripture, where Scripture says there is one God and Scripture also says that Jesus is God and the Holy Spirit is God. So now we have to ask ourselves either A, is what Scripture teaches true? Or B, Scripture is wrong. So if we're a Christian, again, keep in mind we're like three steps into the Christian growth cycle. So at this point, I'm solidly talking to people who place their trust in Christ, whose lifestyle is obedient to the Word. I'm talking to people who believe that the Bible is God's Word and God's Word is true. Then that means we ought to work out how do I understand the truth of God's Word? And let's be honest, God's Word is complex. It's complicated. It doesn't always make sense at the first read. I've been in college for eight and a half, almost nine years, and it still doesn't make sense at the first read. So please let yourself off the hook if you try to read Scripture for the first time and you scratch your head going, what? I do that all the time. It's okay. But the concept in the Bible that there is one God, that Jesus is God, the Holy Spirit is God, that concept is why we have the doctrine of the Trinity because God's Word is true. And God's Word says these three statements, we got to figure out how do these three statements work together? Now, I want to share with you two major mistakes that have been made throughout the course of Christian history. In fact, when we were having our pre-service prayer with the worship team, I said one of the things the modern day church doesn't do really well is we don't teach our history very much. Do you know the amount of heresies that have come up, cropped up, and been put down over the last almost 2,000 years of Christianity? Like you hear all these modern ideas coming out on YouTube, people questioning the divinity of Jesus, and the most recent one, I woke up this morning, a friend of mine who lives out of state sent me a video on YouTube that was making the argument that all of Jesus' disciples had to be teenagers, had to be young teenagers. And he's like, okay, Bill, just tell me, this is not true, right? Like I don't know how many of you just get random YouTube videos sent to your phones where you have to like decrypt them for other people, but that happens to me all the time. And so I'm literally like I got my boots on, my wife's finishing her hair, and I'm texting my friend back and I'm like, okay, so this is an assumption and that doesn't match this verse. And there's a lot out there to understand. So let me show you two mistakes that have been made when it comes to understanding the doctrine of the Trinity, and I want to try to use these as guardrails on the left and on the right. So the first mistake is called monarchianism. Sounds like the word monarch, right? Monarchianism. Monarchianism teaches that Jesus and the Holy Spirit are not God. Jesus is only human, no different than us. It's called monarchianism because it views God as the reigning monarch over the cosmos, which is a true statement. God is in fact God of the cosmos. But that's why I started by showing you that the doctrine of the Trinity is based on three statements. You can't just take statement one and cancel out statements two and three, and that's what monarchianism does. But this was a major conflict in early Christianity. When we were trying to understand how do we think about all the good things that the Bible teaches, one of the ways of handling the tension of there is one God, Jesus is God, the Holy Spirit is God, is to ignore the second two statements and only say there is one God. Well, then that would be the same as Islam and Judaism. But it denies the divinity of Jesus and it denies the divinity of the Holy Spirit. So here's the problem with monarchianism. If you follow it all the way true. If monarchianism is true and Jesus is only a human being just like you and me, then his death on the cross does not pay for sins. He's not God, so he doesn't resurrect. And everything in the New Testament is a farce. Everything in the New Testament is a lie. If Jesus isn't the perfect divine God man that pays for sins, then we can all just go home because it undercuts everything from Christianity. If you deny the divinity of Jesus and the payment that his death made, that's our that's like our number one message, man. Jesus died on the cross and rose to save everybody for God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him. Well, if Jesus's death doesn't pay for sin, then it doesn't matter if you believe in him or not. So clearly we had to throw monarchianism under the bus because if you follow that teaching to its end conclusion, Jesus's death doesn't save. Jesus wasn't actually God. Scripture is not true. There is no sacrifice and we're all going to hell anyways. So clearly we had to throw away monarchianism. The second one, and I do see this one on YouTube, so that's why I included it. So the second one is called modalism, modalism. Think mode, right? You can put a you can put a tool in different modes. So here's what modalism means. Modalism means that God changes modes to also be the sun and the spirit at different times. I want you to think about any anybody who likes theater, right? Think about ancient Greek theater. You would have one actor who would take different masks and he would hold a mask in front of his face and then he would be this character. And then he would put down the mask and hold another mask in front of his face. And now he's a different character. And so he's telling the audience who he is based on what face he's showing the audience. That's what modalism tries to teach us about God. There is one God and the reason that Jesus is God and the Holy Spirit is God is it's God the Father wearing a Jesus mask. And then after Jesus dies on the cross, he puts the Jesus mask down and he picks up the Holy Spirit mask. And now he's wearing the Holy Spirit mask. So you understand that's what modalism teaches. It tries to understand there is one God. Jesus is God. The Holy Spirit is God. But it explains it by using masks. God the Father came to earth. So that means Jesus is still divine. Jesus is the divine God man. But the reason Jesus is the divine God man is because he puts the Jesus mask and it's still God the Father behind the mask. Here's the problem. Number one, you're starting out by saying Jesus is a liar. Right? Jesus is disingenuous in who he is. But it goes deeper than that. I think about, let's say, the story of Jesus when he is at Lazarus' tomb and he is about to raise Lazarus from the dead in the like two thirds through the Gospel of John. I don't memorize chapters and verses. I just memorize stories. So when Jesus stood in front of Lazarus' tomb, what did he do? He prayed. He prayed out loud. And you know what he said? He said, Father, I thank you that you hear me. I know that you always hear me, but I say this for the benefit of those who are here. But if modalism is true, while God is on earth wearing a Jesus mask, there's no God in heaven because there's only one God. And so if he comes to earth and he puts on the Jesus mask, who's Jesus praying to? There's no one in heaven. The entire throne of heaven is vacant because God couldn't figure out. Like, what? That doesn't make any sense whatsoever. That means every time Jesus prayed, he lied. That means every time Jesus spoke of his Father in heaven, he lied. And if Jesus, who is God, in fact lied, then he's not God. So you see how modalism? It sounds good at first. Oh, yeah, it was just one God. Now, let's follow it through. So Jesus dies. Jesus resurrects. Now Jesus sends the Holy Spirit. If the Holy Spirit is here with you and I, God's still not minding the store at home. How are we to have the Holy Spirit here and still expect Jesus to return in his second coming if God wearing his Holy Spirit mask is already here with us? Then there's no God in heaven and there's no Jesus returning. Do you see the problem with modalism? Modalism does not adequately explain the beauty and the depth of the teaching of scripture. But this was a major, major fight in Christianity. Right around AD 325, there was a church council that was called the Council of Nicaea. It's my favorite church council because it's when St. Nicholas walked up and pshhacked somebody in the face right in the middle of church. It's my favorite story. Wait till Christmas and I'll tell it again. St. Nicholas walks up to a dude named Arius who's trying to say that Jesus isn't God. And St. Nicholas decides to defend the divinity of Jesus by throwing down and jacking somebody in the grill right in the middle of a church council. Yes! Don't tell me Santa don't love Jesus. But can you see how the doctrine of the Trinity has been refined over the years? The doctrine of the Trinity is based on three key facts that are all true. There is one God. Jesus is God. The Holy Spirit is God. Also keep in mind, let's talk about a scripture where all three members of the Trinity are visible in one scene. The baptism of Jesus by John the Baptist. Jesus in earthly form walks up to his cousin in the Jordan River. And he has a quick exchange and John the Baptist says to Jesus like, yo bro I should probably be baptized by you. And he's like, no, no, no, let's do this so we can fulfill all righteousness. And so John the Baptist baptizes the earthly son of God. At that time the Holy Spirit descends in the form of a dove that John the Baptist can visibly see. And God the Father speaks from heaven, this is my son in whom I am well pleased. If modalism is true, that story cannot be true. Because if it's only one God, Jesus mask, Holy Spirit mask, then they cannot be in the same place at the same time. Which is weird considering God's already omnipresent. So I'm just going to say upfront, modalism comes with a lot of problems. But it was a very big debate that we had to have 300 and so years into our faith to establish these three simple facts. And again I want to review. Scripture says there is only one God. Scripture reveals that Jesus is God. Scripture reveals the Holy Spirit is God. So how do we get to the doctrine of the Trinity? Here it is. The Trinity is rooted in Scriptures revelation of God's nature and character. His nature and his character. When we get to the Trinity, all three members of the Trinity share the same nature. Which means any of those descriptions of God, his omnipresence where God's presence is not limited by space. His omnipotence, God's power is not limited in any way. His omniscience, God's knowledge is not limited in any way. God the Father, God the Son, God the Spirit, they all have the same omni-level attributes because that is their nature. Just like all of us are human beings and we all possess the same nature. All human beings possess the same nature. There are certain characteristics or qualities that make up human beings. And that doesn't mean that all of us are one being or all of us are not one being. We can share a nature. But then Scripture also goes a step further. We can see the members of the Trinity conversing with one another. Go all the way back to Genesis at creation. Let us make man in our image. Now, I would submit to you, in and of itself, the very beginning of Creation's story does not fully reveal the doctrine of the Trinity. No, it doesn't. It's definitely an illusion to it. It is. And this is where I got to teach you a new term. It's called, shucks, what is it? I literally just drew a blank. Progressive Revelation. Thank you. By now Doug's probably already said it online. Progressive Revelation. As the Scripture unfolds, we get more and more information about the nature and content of God's character. Right? We don't learn everything in Genesis 1. We don't learn everything by the time of David. We don't learn everything at the exile. We don't learn everything in the Gospels. As Scripture unfolds, it reveals more about God's plan, about His nature, and about His character. So the Trinity has all three members of the Trinity, one God, share all the same nature. All those omni-level God-size attributes. However, the three members of the Trinity can converse with one another. That means that their persons, their personhood is not all one person. What makes up a person? The three key elements that make up personhood are a mind, a will, and emotions. Notice that those are all immaterial things, right? Your mind, your will, and your emotions. In the New Testament, I can see that the Holy Spirit is grieved. In the Gospels, I can see that Jesus was tired. In the flood story with Noah, I can see that God experienced sorrow, loss, regret, whichever word you want to put there. The doctrine of the Trinity keeps there is one God. They share the same nature. But the way Scripture describes the interaction between the members of the Trinity rules out both monarchianism and modalism. There has to be a better explanation. How can there be one all-powerful God, and yet within that one God, we see three different persons that can converse with one another, that minister together, that interact with one another? I mean, the Bible says that Jesus was filled with the Holy Spirit during His earthly ministry. How can you possibly believe in monarchianism or modalism and believe that Scripture is true? I don't need the word Trinity to be in Scripture because the word Trinity is derived from Scripture, from all of these different... and I know I'm bouncing all over the place this morning because I'm trying to show you that the reason we believe in the Trinity is it is the singular best explanation of all of the available data that Scripture gives us for the nature and character of who God is. There is one God. That's the Father. There is... Jesus is God, the Son. The Holy Spirit is also God, the Holy Spirit. And they together are one God who exists eternally in three persons. That is what it means to believe in the Trinity. Now, why do we believe in the Trinity? Because that's what Scripture teaches. Now, if you want to start questioning Scripture, then you're going to have to take a couple steps back. Do I actually believe the Word of God is true? That's why this lesson is in the middle, right? We didn't start at the pre-Christian, making everybody understand the complexity of Christian theology. That makes no sense to me. I know there's a lot of discipleship curriculum that's out there that starts by let's teach theology. I disagree with that approach because if I teach you all of these complex things, but your heart and your lifestyle are not submitted to Christ, it's just... I don't want to say it's worthless knowledge because it's true. It's theologically accurate knowledge. But it's not going to be transformative. It's not going to change the way you live your life. Versus, now I can understand and I can articulate, why do I personally believe in the Doctor of the Trinity? Because I believe that Scripture is true. I believe Scripture makes it super clear there's one God. I believe Scripture makes it super clear Jesus is God. And I believe Scripture makes it super clear the Holy Spirit is God. And when I try to understand the relationship of the nature and the character of God, I got to not go with monarchism. I got to not go with modalism. But I can clearly see the persons of the Trinity interacting in Scripture. So they can't just be masks, right? Can you honestly see God the Father having a conversation with Jesus and putting a mask on and looking up at Himself and putting a mask down and looking back down? And then the Holy Spirit's got to speak and then what? Does God the Father speak through the Holy Spirit to write Scripture about Jesus? God, we just get so tired. Or can we just explain that the complexity of the Godhead can share a singular, powerful God nature, but also explain the personhood and the interaction of the individual members of the Trinity. And within the Godhead, before any creation was ever made, there is diversity within unity. To quote the second century father Augustine, he said, The Trinity only makes sense when you understand that God is love. Because in order for love to be real, love has an object. I love my wife, right? So love has an object. Love also has a participant. I said, I love my wife. Love also has a relationship that connects the two of us. Now, I think Augustine's analogy breaks down a little bit because it makes the Holy Spirit feel like this amorphous power versus an actual person. But have you ever considered the reality that why does the Church of Jesus Christ be the bride of Christ? Why do we reflect God's nature? Number one, all human beings were made in the image of God. But number two, as you and I sit in this room today, as we are all brothers and sisters in Christ, our unity and our diversity within that unity is the very reflection of his nature in the Trinity. That's why we can be one body of Christ, not just our church, but literally every church on the planet, every other church, everywhere in the world. All Christians are part of one body. But sometimes we meet in different places and sometimes we wear different sports gear and sometimes we sing different songs. And sometimes we preach from different translations. We preach in different languages. But have any of you ever questioned the fact that you are related to, let's say, Christians in Australia or Christians in Pakistan or Christians in South America? The diversity that exists within the unity of the body of Christ is the best living representation of the Trinity that I could offer you. If we can be one body in many parts, we reflect God's loving nature of being three persons in one God. That's what the Trinity is. And that's why we believe it. So let me give you the takeaway here. Here's how we're going to bring this in for a landing. Oh, no, hold on. Rewind. Take that down for a second. I forgot one thing. Why, and here's my better explanation, why do Christians believe in the Trinity? Because of those three facts, Scripture makes it clear there's one God, Jesus is God, the Holy Spirit is God. Denying the unity of God violates Scripture. Denying the deity of Jesus violates Scripture. Denying the deity of the Holy Spirit violates Scripture. Denying the diversity of divine persons violates Scripture. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, diversity within divine unity agrees with Scripture. The doctrine of the Trinity is derived from Scripture, even though that word itself is not there. That is why we believe that there is a triune Godhead. And that is also what makes Christianity distinctly unique. All right, Dino, now hit me with it. Here's your takeaway. The Trinity is the best explanation of the facts that there is only one God, that Jesus is God, and the Holy Spirit is God. Yes, the word is not in the Bible, but the concept is woven through the pages in a way that's undeniable. Does that make sense?