Good morning. Everybody's awake this morning. Man, the worship team did a great job. Good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I have the privilege of being the pastor here. Here at Catalyst, we are about one thing and one thing only, and that is loving people to life change. Loving people to life change. This is how we have interpreted the mission of the gospel. So, if you are here this morning, if you are joining us on campus for worship, I need you to know that this church loves you. If you are watching us online, even if it's after the fact, even if you're watching this on a day that's not Sunday, I want you to know that this church loves you. But we love you enough to tell you the truth, and that is we don't want you to stay the same. We want you to meet the Savior, the Son of the Living God, who died to forgive your sins and who offers you the Holy Spirit to change your life. So, that's how we get to life change. The gospel's not done at the resurrection. The salvation was bought at the resurrection. The life is only get to act in the Holy Spirit and living the way God instructs us to. So, I'm dressed as a doctor this morning. It will be my final week as your spiritual health clinician, and this morning we will be concluding my teaching series entitled Habits for Health, except that's not the right message for today. So, just put up the title. I may have forgotten to change the title. That could be my fault. Today we're going to be talking about probably the most uncomfortable spiritual habit, the habit of stewardship. I know this is uncomfortable, so let's get the uncomfortable elephant out of the room up front. Mr. Bill, could you please confirm for me and the church that no matter how good of a sermon I preach today, I don't get a raise. There you go. Here's what I need you to understand. Just like every other week in this series, your prayer life doesn't change my job. The way you spend time in your Bible doesn't change my job. The way you fast doesn't change my job. The way you worship doesn't change my job. The way you trust God in your time and your finances doesn't change my job. So, with that elephant out of the way, I want to talk to you about what stewardship is. And the first thing I need you to understand is stewardship is more than just money. So, please hear me. Stewardship is more than money. And I'm going to go ahead and quote my mentor, Pastor Rick Grant, who is here with us in January. Your life has two forms of currency. One of them is the money that you carry in your purse or your wallet. The other one is a currency you may not think about, but it is directly related to the first. And that is your time. That's your time. How you use your time and money in this life is, by definition, stewardship. So, let me tell you a secret maybe you don't understand. Your time is as much of something you are answerable for stewardship-wise as your money. But they are uniquely related. Has anybody ever noticed that you spend your time going to work? And what do you get for the benefit? Well, what's the benefit of going to work? You get a paycheck. That's right. You go to work to get a paycheck. Then you get off of work, and what do you do with that paycheck? You go pay bills. I get that. After hopefully bills are paid, you use the money that you earned at work enjoying the time you have left. So, there's a direct relationship between your time and your money. I could say it this way. You spend your time making money, and then you spend your money enjoying your time. They are directly related. We go to work, we spend our time making money. Then when we're not at work, we choose to allocate the money we have to enjoying our time. Your vacations are an example of that. My family's investment in Xbox Live so my children can play games with their friends in other states. That's an investment in the way my children spend their time. Those of you who pay a cell phone bill, yes, your phone may be used for work, but anybody who checks their socials on their phone is using their time. Here's the unique thing about time and money. One of them is a renewable resource, the other is not. So, between your time and your money, which one can you make more of? You're right, your money. You could spend extra time making more money. Anybody who's ever tried to pick up some overtime before or after a vacation knows exactly what I'm talking about, right? You intentionally spend your time to make more money. Let me ask you this. Can you spend any amount of money to create more time? No, you cannot. So, to quote Pastor Rick, your time and your money are both resources, but since you can't spend money making more time, stewardship is more about time than money. That does not mean stewardship does not involve money, but what I need you to understand is the two are uniquely related. Many of us work four, five, my wife works seven days a week. She never gets to leave her office. Why? Because she is the CEO of Yom's Life Affairs. She works at home. She gets up, she's at the office. She goes to sleep, she's at the office. So, anybody who is a stay-at-home mom or a homemaker, trust me, I don't think that's an easy job. I watch my wife kill it seven days a week. She pays the bills and this and that. You're spending your time doing your job and then you spend what you get from your job enjoying your time. That is the basis on which I would like to approach stewardship today. It's not just going to be about dollars and cents because I don't think dollars and cents sometimes means as much as minutes and seconds. Right? Especially if you have spare dollars and cents, you'll spend the dollars and cents to save the minutes and seconds. Why? Because in the back of your mind, you're thinking, I can always make more dollars and cents, but you can't make more seconds and more minutes. So, I'm going to invite you to turn your Bibles with me to the book of Ephesians. The book of Ephesians we're going to look at chapter 5 verses 15 through 19. Ephesians chapter 5 verses 15 through 19. This is not going to be a typical passage that you would hear used to teach stewardship. I'm going a little bit on the wily edge of the envelope today. But it's because I really want to drill home stewardship is not only money. Sadly, I think that word has been co-opted in Christian teaching to where anytime brings up the word stewardship, you immediately think the word tithing. It's not that tithing is not a component of stewardship. But if we were to draw a nice big Venn diagram, if you're only spending your time over here looking at the monetary aspects of stewardship, you may be missing the larger picture about living a life that is worshipful to God. So, let's take a look. This is Ephesians chapter 5 verses 15 through 19. The apostle Paul is writing these words from prison. So, he's in prison at this point. I'm going to say probably Caesarea, but that's a guess. I don't remember exactly where he was when he wrote the prison epistles. He's writing from prison. Pop quiz. What city is the book of Ephesians written to? Ephesus. You guys are like scholars. This is so fun, right? So, the book of Ephesians is written to a city. The city was called Ephesus. The book of Ephesians is written to all of the Christians who live in a specific city. The reason I point that out is we need to understand the author and the audience of the context when we come to scripture. So, Paul is the author of the book of Ephesians. He's writing to the entire church, every single Christian that lives in the city of Ephesus. So, unlike let's say 1st and 2nd Timothy or Titus that have a direct recipient and then an indirect recipient, the direct recipient of this book is all Christians in a specific area. We know that the Holy Spirit revealed this for all of us today. So, Paul is writing through the church at Ephesus to you and I. His advice is directly applicable to you and I. So, look at what he says here. So, be careful how you live. Don't live like fools, but be like those who are wise. Make the most of every opportunity in these evil days. Don't act thoughtlessly, but understand what the Lord wants you to do. Don't be drunk with wine because you will ruin your life. Instead, be filled with the Holy Spirit, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs among yourselves and making music to the Lord in your hearts. It totally sounds like a stewardship sermon, doesn't it? Yeah. So, this is what I'd like to do. I want to go through this a little bit slower with a little bit a couple pieces and point out why I believe this verse might be the key to Christian stewardship, but we overlook it because we're going right to passages that talk about money. So, here's the first thing I want you to understand. My lifestyle is a reflection of my faith. My lifestyle is a reflection of my faith. Look at what he says here in verse 15. So, be careful how you live. Don't live like fools, but live like those who are wise. Now, I think the first sentence is a little obvious. Be careful how you live. We go to church one day a week. Hopefully, you live the other six and a half days a week, right? If not, then we have a whole other kind of church service that we have to plan when that's over. So, we live seven days a week, but we're only in church. And I'll give you the benefit of the doubt a half a day, right? Give the benefit of the doubt. You woke up early and you made it to your c-group and we're at church and then you go out to lunch with your church friends. So, your church experience takes up half a day. What about the other six and a half days a week? Youth pastor I had growing up, he always used to say, if your life was a movie, right? If people were able to see your life like the Truman Show movie. If people were able to just look at your life third party without you knowing about it, would your life read like a Christian film? I can't say that's not mine. I'm just quoting some wisdom that was given to me back when I was coming up. But you know what, Sean? I think it's totally true. If someone were to look at your life from the outside, third party, hopefully, like hopefully, I get somebody super awesome to write the score. You know, I've always wanted that mood music. You walk in somewhere. You know? I just think it'd be super awesome. Walk in with some super heavy 80s guitar riff. But no matter the soundtrack, right? No matter the soundtrack that you play in your car. Whether you're jamming out to worship or you're jamming out to Guns N' Roses or you're jamming out to Tim McGraw or pick your favorite artist. No matter the soundtrack to your life, does it read like a Christian film? Or does it read like somebody who goes to church on Sundays? That's a totally different question, right? Be careful how you live. And then he says two very things. Don't live like fools. Live like those who are wise. I cannot read this verse without thinking about Mr. T. Because I'm a child of the 80s. I grew up watching the 18. Man, I'm pitiful. Don't live like... Who was that? Somebody left really hard. That was good. Don't live like fools but live like those who are wise. Let me ask you a question. How do you know someone who's a fool? Just think about it. How do you know someone's a fool? Is it after they make their first stupid mistake? Like as soon as they make their... They're perfect for 30 years and make one mistake. You classify that person as a fool. Probably not. You would classify it as a mistake because it's aberrant from the normal things they do. How do you know someone's a fool? When you watch them over and over... When their lifestyle dictates their bad decision makers, right? This is not the time to elbow your neighbor just in case you're wondering. That wasn't it. I'll give you one later but it's not it. When their lifestyle illustrates they're foolish. That's how you know someone's a fool. So when he says, be careful how you live, don't live like fools. Don't make consistent lifestyle choices that make your reputation look foolish. He says but. So there's a juxtaposition here. Don't do this. Let's do this but live like those who are wise. Now again, same question. How do you define someone as someone who is wise? Is it the very first time they give you like some fortune cookie level advice when you're reaching on phone? Probably not. It's probably after a couple conversations. After time and time again, you realize this person is a wise person. Again, do you notice the lifestyle implications of these two words? You only know when someone's a fool when their lifestyle tells you they are. And you only know someone is wise when their lifestyle tells you they are. So even though Paul's not using the word lifestyle here, he's using live. Don't live like fools but like those who are wise. Does your day-to-day life make you a fool? That was the moment to elbow your neighbor in case you missed it. Does your day-to-day life read like you are someone who is wise? Let me ask you another question. How many times do you get a phone call or a text from a friend asking for advice? Okay. If you're in that boat, then someone thinks you're wise. Now be careful, if it's the fools who think you're wise, then maybe you're not. But do you see how your lifestyle creates a reputation and that reputation influences the way people treat you? That's the essence of lifestyle Christianity. The way I live influences my reputation for the good or the bad. And then the way that reputation sits with others influences how people relate to me. I get lots of phone calls asking biblical and apologetic questions. It's probably not a surprise. This is what I've chosen to dedicate my life to do. It's what I've chosen to get my education in. My conversation with Micah on the way into church today was about the difference between, oh gosh, what did he ask? The difference between Shaol and Hades from an Old Testament to a New Testament perspective. Micah asks the most complicated questions. I love that he's a big thinker, but Gary, I'll be honest, at like eight o'clock in the morning my master's degree hasn't woken up yet. And so I'm like, whoa, whoa, I need a rock star and a coffee before I get any more questions for my 12 year old. But I have become a source of wisdom to my son. He knows he can ask me questions and I'm going to do my best to give him a good answer even if the answer is I don't know. And I'll be honest, I tell him that at least twice a week. My wife can be here, she can witness it. Micah will ask questions that I just don't know the answer to. And I'll say, you know what, I don't know. Let's go look it up. I don't know, that's okay. But I at least know in my son's eyes, I am a source of wisdom. So let me ask you this. Let's get outside of you. Who is your source of wisdom? Who do you look at in your life? Now do not elbow your neighbor with this next question. Who do you look at in your life and be like, yo, that person is an idiot. I know they are foolish. I know they are stupid. Listen, you can ask five different people for advice. Don't call, fill in the blank. You just thought of somebody. You can laugh about it. It's okay. You and I both know you did. That person you think of is foolish. Now ask yourself the same question. If I wanted advice, if I was struggling with something, if I didn't understand something, who is the person that I would reach out to? You've defined that person as a wise person. The reality is you are one of those people to everyone. Are you a source of wisdom or are you a source of foolishness? And in and of itself, that may just be one variable. But the reality is it speaks to your lifestyle. It speaks to who you are and it speaks to how you've spent your time investing in yourself, in your faith, and in others. So your stewardship is reflected in your lifestyle. Here's the second thing I want you to know. Stewardship requires a conscious effort. Stewardship requires a conscious effort. Let's look at verse 16. Just 16. Make the most of every opportunity in these evil days. So I'm going to start at the back end of the sentence and then I'll come back to the beginning. In these evil days, there's a lot of debate over what is Paul calling evil days? Is he calling evil the presence of the Roman Empire in the Jewish homeland? That could be considered evil days in the same way that in the Old Testament when the children of Israel went into exile and they were sent away into the land of the Assyrians and the land of the Babylonians that they were in an evil land. Well now the oppressors have come home. The oppressors are right here in Jerusalem and Judea and Galilee. That could be the evil days. That could be one. Whilst that is historic, totally historically accurate, I don't think it's theologically accurate to where Paul's going. I think when we're talking about evil days, Paul is a first century Jew. He's also a first century Pharisee. That means he understands his Old Testament really, really, really well. Smart dude. It's a theological term. Smart dude. He is very wise in his theological understanding and I think what Paul understands is the same thing that every other Old Testament author understood. That after Genesis chapter three, creation is in a state of sin awaiting a messiah who's going to save us from that. From Genesis three all the way through to the return of Christ in Revelation, we're in evil days. Why? Because sin is still allowed to rule on earth. People sometimes ask, well if you believe in such a loving God, why is evil so prevalent? And listen, I'm not going to make light of that. That is a legit question. If you've never been asked that question before, prep for it because every good Christian needs to have a solid answer. So I'm going to give you my coffee table answer and then if you want a deeper answer, let me know on your connection card. You want to talk about evil and we can talk about it. So when I believe in a good God, why is there evil? Anybody ever got a cut on their hand? Right? Just okay. Yeah, Mackenzie's pointing to it. Thank you very much. So anybody ever got a cut on their hand? Well, I was working at my last church and we were working outside. We were cleaning up the yard. I had a knife. I was stupid and the blade was facing the wrong way when I went to cut through something and I cut right through the whole top of my hand. I probably cut it a good two inches down to the bone and had to go and I had to go get stitches and I am a super, super scared weenie person when it comes to needles. So like I couldn't even look at it when she was putting the lidocaine in my hand. Like it was bad and for a while the stitches hurt and then my hand healed and then eventually they took the stitches out and I was a weenie again and then I got ice cream that made me feel better. But I never defined my hand by the cut. Why? Because intuitively I understood that my hand was there before the cut and the cut was just a problem in my hand, right? And then the hand then the cut heals. Now I have this nice little scar that reminds me that I got a really cool cut. You know scars are cool for stories. But the cut wasn't part of my hand. It wasn't part of my hand's design. It was something that was done to my hand that then got fixed. That's the same thing with evil. God did not design creation to contain evil. Evil is like the wound in the hand. Doesn't mean God doesn't have a plan for evil. Evil has actually already been defeated at the cross of Christ and we're waiting for the wound to finally be healed. So when someone says to me and they say, well pastor if you believe in such a loving God why would he create evil? I said stop. God didn't create evil. God created free will creatures, thus as human beings and we do some evil mess. But let's not blame God for all the evil that people do. Just like a wound in my hand, I had a cut for a time. There was a time when I couldn't look at my hand as whole because there was a problem with it. It had a cut in it. But God made my hand so it could heal itself. Well, God sent the band-aid for evil on all of humanity and in a Christian worldview that's Jesus. So Jesus is the solution for evil. Then the atheist comes back and they say, well how come he hasn't done it yet and in which I would respond, why do you have to be the determiner of the timeline? Right? Why do you get to decide how God deals with things? You asked me to explain evil, I explained it. Evil's like a cut on your hand. It's not supposed to be here. It won't be here then but it's here right now. So don't define the hand by the cut. You define the cut in the hand. Because the thing the atheist has to answer for is if they want to come at us and say, hey Mr. Christian, why do you believe in evil? I go, hey Mr. Atheist, how do you define anything that's good? The atheist is just as much on the hook as you and I are. If they want to make the Christian answer for evil, I want to hear the atheist answer for good. Because in an atheistic worldview, if there is no solid moral being like God, morality is basically preference. So that was nothing to do with my sermon but it was a fun little, it was a fun little jaunt. In case anybody asks you how to make the most of every opportunity, you'll have a good answer. These evil days, these evil days in my opinion are all of the days before God fixes the wound in creation that we put there. Once God fixes this, we're no longer in the evil days. So that means you and I were born in the evil days and unless Jesus returns before we graduate to eternity, you and I will have lived all of our life in these evil days. So now let's go to the first part of the sentence. Make the most of every opportunity. How do I do that? If I know all of my life, I'm going to live in these evil days and I know that evil in and of itself doesn't exist. It's just like a cut on my hand. I was born into a world that is wounded. So that means I need to make the most of every opportunity to treat as much of that wound as I can. As many people have been hurt by the evil that does exist in this world and it does. Let's not run from it. Let's not try to hide our God or protect him. Trust me, he's big enough. But when I see the opportunities that evil creates, if I represent the creator who created it, I mean what did God say at the end of Genesis chapter 1? Each day he said and he saw it and it was good. Except for the end of day 6. Day 6 after he creates Adam and Eve and it was yeah somebody got it. It was very good. Creation was very good until humanity made a decision that was very bad. And once we made that very bad decision, now we get to deal with evil until Jesus fixes it. And that's the cool thing. God has already made a plan to fix evil. In fact, 2,000 years ago when the son of God died on a cross and he rose 3 days later and then 40 days after that he sent the Holy Spirit. It's like the hand has already been bandaged, right? And we put the Neosporin on it and then mommy takes me out for ice cream because that's how I deal with band-aids and now I'm just waiting. What am I waiting for? I'm waiting for the evil days to be done with. So if I know that you and I have to live in evil days, then how do I make the most of every opportunity? I spend my time and my money representing my king. Why? Because he's the one that defeated this. So he's the one who needs to be represented. I spend my time and my money representing the one person who defeated all the evil days. Evil days were defeated 2,000 years ago. In a Christian worldview, we don't still suffer with why is evil here. We may have to answer why is it still here? Well, why is God taking so long? That's a good question. Off the cuff, I would say because I believe in a God who loves everyone and he's going to take the maximum amount of time to save the maximum amount of souls. That's what I believe. I think the only reason and Jesus said that these days will come to an end but nobody except for the father knows when that is. It could be tomorrow. I don't know that. He didn't make me privileged to that information. So all I can do is day by day, minute by minute, hour by hour, second by second, do everything I can to treat the wound that's in front of me until the surgeon comes and gets rid of it for good and he sews it back up. And if you go all the way to the end of the Bible story, we don't actually live in heaven with God forever. The very very end of the Bible has a unique ending. It's kind of like if you've ever been to a writer's clinic, you have the beginning, you have the middle and you have the twist. Every good book has a twist at the end. The Bible's twist isn't that we live with God in heaven forever. It's that he makes a brand new earth free of the wound, free of the evil and that's what we get to inherit. That's why we should be doing this is because this is numbered and there's a brand new creation on the way that's free from the wound and we'll get to experience. Has anybody ever read the Garden of Eden story in Genesis and thought, man, I wonder what that looked like. I wonder that frequently. Okay, there's a few of those questions that as much as we study scripture, there's no positive answer for other than I'm going to wait and ask Jesus when I get there. You know the number one thing I want to do when we get to the new earth? I want to pluck something off a fruit tree and eat it because I want to know, does it taste different? Did it look different? You know all that Genesis tells me is God made everything and he let us eat. Everything was good and it was lovely and in my mind that means it's tasty and juicy and yummy and I just want to know where's the beef jerky tree? Somebody amen me on the jerky. Thank you very much. All right, here's the third thing I need to understand about stewardship. I should measure my choices by God's word. How do I determine how to make the most? I measure my choices by God's word. Let's take a look at verse 17. Don't act thoughtlessly but understand what the Lord wants you to do. Notice this word thoughtlessly engages the brain. Right? Don't act as if you know thinky. Don't do that. Thinky before you acty. That's the theological translation. Thinky before thy acty. Now it sounds churchy. Don't act thoughtlessly and or I could turn this around. Think about the way you live. Think about what you do but understand again do you feel the intellectual engagement here? Don't act thoughtlessly. Understand what the Lord wants you to do. How do I learn what God wants me to do? There are only two options. Option A. I hear from the Holy Spirit through his written revealed word. Option B. I hear from the Holy Spirit through a direct personal revelation. Did you notice that both of them rely on the same source? The only way you can know and a lot of people will say, well, Pastor Bill, do you still believe that the Holy Spirit speaks to people today? Heck yes, I still believe that. You know why? Because the Bible didn't exist for the first 400 years of our faith. Jesus did not write the gospel of Matthew. Who wrote Matthew? See, Bible scholars, you are all. The Bible didn't exist for the first 400 years of our faith and yet people got saved and got baptized and got taught. You know what that means? That means your lifestyle is not contingent on how many Bible verses you can memorize. It's contingent on how much of the spirit you can obey. Now we do have a benefit. We have the benefit of the written revealed word of God that the Spirit inspired every letter of every page. Totally believe it. Yes, but that's like getting a love letter from your spouse and having her sit at the table next to you and say, hang on, I don't want to talk to you. I want to read this letter one more time. Gentlemen, I don't think your wife would be too happy with you if you treated her like that. I don't think your wife would be too happy with you if you treated her that way day after day after day. And you pulled out the next love letter but ignored her personally and didn't spend any time with her personally. How do I know what the Lord wants me to do? You have two choices. You A, can read what the Spirit wrote on the pages or B, you can hear from the Spirit in prayer. Either way, he is the only source to know what the Lord wants you to do. So don't, and this is the other thing, don't check out your brain when it comes to your discipleship. Think about stuff. In my opinion, Christians fall into a couple of categories and one of them are the overthinkers. We're the headfirst people. That's me. I think all the time. It drives my wife nuts. I'm constantly thinking and scheming and trying to understand and I got more books on my nightstand than I could possibly read. And I've got like two audiobooks going depending on what car I'm in. Like it's ridiculous. I got my head way too far out ahead. And sometimes my wife is like, but it just feels right. I'm like, okay, hon. Let's, the Holy Spirit can speak to my heart just as well as he can speak to my head. Let's just put the brain aside for a minute. What's the Spirit saying to do? Because at the end of day, let's be honest. It's always better to do what the Holy Spirit tells you to do. Like totally is. I recognize this is a Baptist church and half of you are getting super uncomfortable because we're talking about the Holy Spirit speaking. I get it. But if the Holy Spirit revealed the word and you're willing to hear him speak through the written page, you kind of got to justify it, right? So don't act thoughtlessly. Don't check out your brain when it comes to the way you live. Understand what the Lord wants you to do. That also means it's not just enough to know what is right. I mean, how many times we teach our children you can know what is right. But until you do what is right, you haven't demonstrated you care what is right. You can quote chapter and verse to me all day long. But if your lifestyle doesn't reflect what you know, then you might know it but still not care. It doesn't change you until you understand what the Lord wants you to do. And I would say in the subtext of the sentences, you have to make yourself do it. How many times parents would you look at your children and say, of course they know what I expect of them. They know to do their chores. They know to make their bed. They know, I mean, does nobody raise your hand, but does anybody have the child who just automatically does what's right every single time without being asked? Because if so, I would like parenting advice, like legit real. Everybody has to discipline to not just understand but do. When you understand by spending time in the written word of God, guaranteed you're going to hear what the Spirit wants you to do. By spending time in prayer, reflecting and listening to God, you're going to learn what the Spirit wants you to do. It's part of your lifestyle and your actions. Here's the next thing I need you to understand. Chasing temporary pleasures will never satisfy. Look at 15, 18a. So, this is the first half. Don't be drunk with wine because that will ruin your life. That was like a totally different sermon but I need you to see it in context. Ultimately, keep in mind we're talking about first century, right? We're talking about distractions that existed in the city of Ephesus at the time that Paul was writing. People were still getting drunk and ruining their life in the first century. So, over binging on substances is not a new problem, right? It's not something that just got invented in our modern era. This existed then. But what's the larger distraction? Don't be drunk with wine because that will ruin your life. Being distracted by earthly things. I could put almost anything in place of this wine. Don't be overcome with you could pick a drug. You could pick a food. You could pick and you could pick almost anything that that ruins your life by it becoming the idol that you search for. When you understand that your stewardship is your time and your money, you can't just go to church and give in the offering plate and live however you want because that's being hypocritical. What God wants you to do is both. He wants you to live for him and give to him. But the idea that I can just do this. Why? Because it's going to ruin your life. And trust me, I have friends who've gone down this road with this substance, with other substances, with other things. And it all ends the same. Why? Because sin is basically chocolate covered poison. Sin is basically the poison that is going to ruin your life. Coated in something that looks super yummy. Right? It's chocolate covered arsenic, chocolate covered cyanide. It looks like a super yummy Snickers bar until you bite into it. And at that point, you've already ingested the poison and it's going to work its way into your life. It's going to work its way into your marriage. It's going to work its way into your family. It's going to work away into your relationship with your friends. Because that's how poison works. Is it seeps into all these other areas. And I know some of you have experienced that problem. So, I'm not trying to belabor the point. What I want to point out to you is not only is Paul calling us to live positively a certain way, he's also causing us to ignore or live against those negative choices. Again, how do you define a fool? Someone whose lifestyle is foolish. How do you define a wise person? Someone whose lifestyle is wise. Either way, this involves all of your life. This involves all seven days. Let me just turn the other way around. This doesn't say don't be drunk with wine at church because that will ruin your life. Paul assumes that you're a Christian seven days a week. He assumes that when you put the word Christ on your life as a label, that you don't take it off when you leave church to put on your selfish idolatry outfit. He assumes that you're not considering only a Sunday morning style Christianity. Paul's assumption in the letter is that you live it day by day. And I'm going to put that right there. I was wondering where it went. I was like, it's moving. I know it is. And here's the final thing I want you to learn. Worshipping God should be my priority. Let's look at the last half of 18 and 19. Instead, instead of what? Instead of being distracted by selfish pleasure and idolatry, instead be filled with the Holy Spirit, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs among yourselves and making music to the Lord in your hearts. This is why I think this is perhaps one of the best passages when we talk about stewardship is because we got to get away from the idea that stewardship is just about the money. Because think about it this way. If stewardship were only about money, then the more money you have, the bigger steward you would be. No, the more money you have, the more responsibility you have. I'll give you that one. The more you have to be a good steward of. But when we look at the variable of time, every single one of us has the same number of minutes and seconds in their life. 525,600 minutes. It's a number of minutes in a single calendar year. Thank you to my musical theater education. I went to high school. I went to high school for musical theater and that was a very popular song from the Broadway musical rent. 5,500,600 minutes. Yep, I know. I got to sing it in my head to make sure I got the number right. On that standard, we all have the same number of minutes. On that standard, we are all the same level of steward. Your lifestyle needs to dictate your stewardship. That includes the way you spend your money. But it starts with the way you spend your time. It starts with how much you are willing to surrender to God and how much you're not. How much of your life are you willing to give and how much do you hold back? So here's what I want you to do. Take me back to the title slide, please. It just has the open graphic on it. Daniel's going to come up and in a minute, we're going to close with a song before we go to the connection card. Because I want to really do I want to really do what the end of this passage says. If stewardship is about worship, then what I need to do is I need to make sure that you get it right. We put priority in priority place. Stewardship is about asking yourself the question, God, how much do I worship you with all that I am? That includes the way I spend my time. How much of my time, Lord, do I give to you? How much of my finances, Lord, do I give to you? How much of my relationships have you as a part of it? How much of my family conversation at home, whether it be at the dinner table or driving to the store, Lord, how much are you a part of? How much of the way I live my life are you first? That's a big question and it's one that really needs to be answered for each person individually. Daniel is going to lead us in a closing song. Here's the question. You can stay seated. Here's the question I need you to ask yourself. We already sang it. It's a fantastic hymn. I grew up with it. My question is, when you sing the words of this song, how true are you being? Right? How truthful are the words, Lord, I surrender all to you? Are they in your life? After he leads us, then we'll talk about a step of commitment. All to Jesus I surrender. All to him I freely give. I will ever love and trust him in his presence they need me. All to Jesus I surrender. May be Savior, holy Thou. Let me feel Thy holy Spirit truly know that Thou art mine. And I surrender all. All to Thee, my best Savior. I surrender all. Every voice say now, say I surrender all. Oh, I surrender all. All to Thee, my blessed Savior. I surrender all. Oh, I surrender all. Take a moment. Just bow your head in prayer. Let's think about the sermon. Take a moment. Just bow your head in prayer. Let's think about the sermon. Sometimes we have to pause and just do business with God. Let the words that you heard sink in and make them your own. It's not the time to think of somebody else. Think of you, think of yourself. Let's receive our quiet prayers this morning. We pray in Jesus name, amen. God is so worthy that sometimes we just get so busy we forget about it. You know? So this is what I want you to do. If you're here in the sanctuary I want you to either use your cell phone and scan the code at the very top of your handout to bring up your connection card or use the paper one that's in front of you. This is your moment of commitment. This is your moment to participate in the service. And I have a simple question for you. The question is, how good is your stewardship of both your time and money? I'm not going to sell you a car. I'm not going to sell you a car. I'm not going to sell you a car. How good is your stewardship of both your time and money? I'm not going to separate the two. I began the sermon that way and we're going to close it that way. How good is your stewardship of your time and your finances? Do you trust God and do you prioritize him at the top of the way you allocate your time? Do you trust God and allocate him at the top of the way you spend your money? Because I would argue both are parts of godly stewardship. So before I ask the ushers to come forward and take the offering, because that's an ancillary step, I need you to decide in your heart how good is my stewardship? And if it needs to make a change, then make a change. This should be no different than when I asked you to review your prayer life, when I asked you to review your fasting, when I asked you to review the time you spend in the Bible, when I asked you to review the amount of time you spend in serving God. When you fast, when you pray, when you give, when you serve. Christianity is kind of an all or nothing gig. He gave his all and we owe him our all. So what is your stewardship today? And if it needs to make a change, then make the change. That's what the connection card is for. That's why you can tell me, pastor, I need help. I need to grow in fill in the blank. Lord, I have been sitting by. I'm not serving your kingdom. I need to grow and fill in the blank. Lord, I have been holding back trusting you in my finances. I need to grow in fill in the blank. That's what stewardship is. Stewardship is recognizing that you are a citizen of a heavenly kingdom and living like it matters. I love being an American citizen. I am so thankful to God, especially on a weekend like Memorial Day weekend. I am so thankful that I was privileged to be born in a country where I never had to fight to say the name of Jesus. That's a gift. But the greater gift is my relationship with Jesus. The greater gift is knowing who my king is and giving him my life. Because here's what I can tell you. If you're a Christian, let me clue you in on the end of the story. The king eventually comes back for his subjects and our lifestyle needs to reflect our allegiances to him. I believe that we should pray for all of those who serve in our American government. Absolutely. The Bible requires me to. But if you ask me right now to draw a line between my allegiance to a man-made government and my allegiance to the king of kings and lord of lords, that's not a hard choice for me. I pick my side early on and I'm good. But I try to live it every day, not just on Sundays. So what is your stewardship of the way your time is spent with your family? And what is your stewardship of the way your finances are allocated? There are plenty of different ways that you can give to God. So Dan, if you guys want to come forward, this is the part of the service where I'm asking you to actually do something. So I was having this conversation with somebody, I forget who it was, but in my opinion, a sermon should be like 80% education and 20% motivation. That's why I like having a connection card at the end of the service. You need to do something in response. If you've never trusted God in your finances before, then give a single gift today and find out what it's like. If you struggle to make it a habit, I would say it should be a habit. The Bible gives a pretty clear standard that 10% is the beginning of spiritual discipline of giving. It's not the end, it's the beginning. Maybe you're not ready to work up to that. That's fine. I'll be honest, I'm not allowed to carry cash money because I'm really, really bad at keeping track of it for my wife. And when you have to answer to the CEO at home, you learn how to play according to the rules. So that's why we use the electronic giving and we give consistently every month. We program it, it comes out, it works. It makes it a priority and also works for the way I live my life. Because I get to be a Christian disciple today when you know, Visa, MasterCard and electronic giving is a thing. So if you have questions about that, please, I know that Mr. Bill is here. We can get you the answers you need. But my question about stewardship is about more than just your money. It's about your whole life. Because if your lifestyle is for Jesus, then your giving to him isn't a problem. If your lifestyle is not for Jesus, that's why I think people relegate stewardship than just about the money. It's not just about the money. It's about loving and worshiping the king who deserves the time and the money. So let me pray and I'm gonna ask the gentleman pass the baskets and minister to the church. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for the privilege of making you first in our life. You are King, you are Lord, you are God, you are Savior, you are Messiah. We as your subjects acknowledge our place in your kingdom and worship you with our time and our money together to honor who you are. Lord, we give to you this morning as an act of worship. We surrender to you all of our time and all of our money because you saved all of our soul. Jesus, we love you in your powerful name. Amen.