God, we thank you and praise you for your goodness. God, we praise you for our lives and the testimony that we have that we can live by you in everything that you've done in us and through us. Just, I praise you and thank you for placing my feet on solid ground and changing who I once was into who I am and who I am every day becoming. Jesus, and I pray that you would guide each one of us as we walk with you, Lord Jesus. Give us the tools that we need, God, to go and share this incredible goodness that we know about, Lord. Let us share with others so that they too can know about the God who has always been faithful to us. Jesus, we praise you for your faithfulness and we ask that you would give us strength to be faithful to you in the way you have been to us. Jesus, we praise you for who you are, for the sacrifice that you've given for us because of love. It's so simple yet so complex, Jesus, that you loved us so much that you gave your one and only son for us. In everything that we do, in who you knew we would be, you still chose to be faithful and a good, good God. Jesus, we praise you for that. Jesus, we pray that you would be with this service today, that you would open the hearts and minds of these people, Lord, that we would be equipped to go and do your good work. Lord, thank you for the opportunity to come together and worship you corporately and together. Jesus, we praise you for you are good today. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. For those of you who don't know me, I am privileged to be the pastor here at Catalyst today. We are going to begin a brand new teaching series entitled Habits for Health. And I have decided that it would be best to deliver this message this morning. In fact, every message in this series dressed as a healthcare professional. But before I get into our teaching, if you work in the healthcare industry, would you please stand? Can we just say thank you to these amazing people? Thank you very much for serving all of us. So this morning we begin my teaching series entitled Habits for Health. But before I get into that, I want to give you my definition of what a habit actually is. So here it is. A habit is an acquired behavior regularly followed until it becomes almost involuntary. And that last word is super important. What's a habit? A habit is an acquired behavior regularly followed until it becomes almost involuntary. And I think we can all admit some of us have good habits and some of us have bad habits. Right? Maybe more of us have bad habits than good habits. That's okay. I'm not here to make you feel bad about yourself this morning. But we do need to admit that we all have certain behaviors in our life that some are good and some are bad. So what's the difference between a good habit and a bad habit? So here's what I submit to you this morning. We call it a bad habit when its effectual outcome on our life is negative. When its effectual outcome on our life is negative. So let me give you an example of one of my bad habits. When I was 18 years old, I moved out of my parents' house and I very quickly developed a soda drinking habit. Now you're going to say, but Pastor Bill, drinking soda is not bad. That's super true. But drinking 3-4 liters of soda a day is probably... Yeah. The number of people who just jaw dropped. Yes. 18-20, I consumed about 3-4 liters of soda every single day. I would wake up and have about a half a liter for breakfast. I'd have another about a half a liter at lunch or a liter to a liter and a half at lunch. And then I'd have dinner and then of course you have fourth meal. So at around 11 o'clock to midnight, I had a whole nother snack. And so I could easily consume 3-4 liters of soda a day. I'm going to go ahead and tell you that that wasn't really good for my health. I think no one questions that, right? So there's an example of a bad habit. And why is it a bad habit? Because that repetitive repeated motion that became almost involuntary has an effectual outcome on my life that is negative. But what about good habits? We call it a good habit when its effectual outcome on our daily lives is positive. You know what my good habit is? I don't drink soda at 3 liters a day anymore. So I just turned a bad habit into a good habit. But think about that for just, I know this is a very simple analogy, but I need you to grasp this concept before we start talking about what we're really going to talk about today. You have habits in your life. You have acquired behaviors that you regularly follow that are almost involuntary in nature. And some of those acquired behaviors have a net positive outlook on your life or a net positive impact. And some of them have a net positive or a net negative impact, right? I love ice cream. Anybody else love ice cream? Yes, Mr. John, I see that hand, right? Praise God for you right there. You know what else I learned? I learned you're not supposed to eat ice cream in half gallon increments. I didn't know that. I didn't know that. When you buy the little tub at the store, I thought that was a single serving thing. I didn't realize that you're not supposed to eat it in half gallon increments. That was a bad habit. I would buy a gallon of ice cream and eat half of it watching a movie on Monday night, the other half of it watching a movie on Tuesday night, and by Wednesday night, I need more ice cream. That makes sense to me people. That bright. But that doesn't make, now here's the thing, just because it makes sense to me and just because I enjoy it doesn't make it good. Right? So here we go. Just because it makes sense and just because I enjoy it doesn't make it good. How do you define whether something is good or bad? The effectual outcome on your daily life. That is how we determine good habits from bad habits. So my next question has to be, how do your habits, those repeated things you do in your life that are almost involuntary, how do they affect your spiritual health? And that's where this series comes down. So here's the key thought for this series. Ready? My habits determine my health. I want you to say that with me. My habits determine my health. Now one more time for everybody who didn't do it the first time. My habits determine my health. I'm going to have you say that every single week for the next six weeks. And six weeks from now you're going to be healthier. Now the reason I chose to dress like a doctor is, number one, I'm overly theatrical and so I get the right to do that. But there's another really important thing here. It's not just a gimmick. It's not just an outfit. Here's what I need to understand. When you go to the doctor's office, what does the doctor do? Or the nurse practitioner. Okay? Here are all my nurses. To be honest, you do most of the actual patient work. So when you go to the doctor or the nurse, what do they do? They look at your height, weight, gender, blood pressure, blood sugar. They take all of these numbers and what do those numbers represent? Well any one number by itself only represents one part of your body. But when they collectively look at them all together, it's a portrait of your health. What we're going to do over the next six weeks is we're going to check the numbers. I'm going to give you six different things in your life that determine part of your spiritual health and we're going to check the boxes and we're going to see where's your blood pressure at, where's your cholesterol at, where's your health to height to weight ratio. You know what happens every time I go to the doctor? I get a physical just about every two years and I go in and I tell the doctor the same thing. Dude, just like kick the tires, check the oil pressure, you know, do whatever you got to do. Take the blood, run the numbers. You know what happens? They run the numbers and every time I've been to three different doctors, they tell me the same thing. I say, so what do the results look like? And they're like, well, you know, you probably know this, but you're a little overweight. You know, you're a little heavier than you should be even for a man of your size. He said, so we're probably going to be and the doctor opens the chart and y'all, I am as healthy as a horse on the numbers. I look like I'm an athlete. I am not an athlete. Just in case we didn't catch that from the previous series, I'm not. But for some reason, I have, I apparently have really, really good genes and I'm very healthy numerically. My blood sugar is great. My blood pressure is great. My cholesterol is great. Yes, I'm still overweight, but sometimes there's something about your health that the numbers don't always see. So what I hope to do over the next six weeks is give you some very real markers that you can assess your spiritual health. For the next six weeks, I will be your spiritual health clinician. And I want you to evaluate your life on these six different habits to understand how healthy spiritually you are. The other reason I chose to wear the lab coat is most of you go to the doctor and you never question what they say. So for the next six weeks, you can't question what I preach. All right. So key thought, my habits determine my health. Now the thought for this week is, or the habit for this week that we're going to look at is the habit of prayer, the habit of prayer. Now everybody can groan because you're super excited for what I'm going to say next. Watch this. Prayer protects us from temptation. Matthew 26, 41. I'm going to give you this as an opening verse and then we're going to jump into a larger teaching that Jesus gives. So here's the first thing I need you to understand about the habit of prayer. Prayer protects us from temptation. Let's look at Matthew 26, 41. Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. Now this is Jesus himself speaking to his disciples. So he gives us two very key elements of the habit of prayer. Remember what a habit is. A habit is a repeated thing that you do until it becomes almost involuntary. The first thing he says is watch and pray that you will not fall into this big word here, temptation, right? And the first thing I need you to understand about temptation, it's not a sin to be tempted. You know how I know that? Jesus was tempted in the wilderness. Jesus did not give into temptation and thus he did not sin. So the first thing I need you to understand is we live in a world of temptation. Like in case that's massively revelatory to you today. We live in a world where there's all kinds of temptations to be disobedient to God. That's what sin is, disobedience to God. Being tempted is not a sin. Being tempted and being able to recognize, hey, that's disobedient to God. God wishes me to do this. I'm going to choose to do that. So being in a habit of prayer keeps you more familiar with what God wants for your life. Those of you who are married or who are ever thinking about getting married, husbands do not answer my next question. I'm just going to say it out front. Is there something that you can do that really drives your spouse crazy? Don't answer. Husbands, be wise around. This is church. Don't answer. There are several things that I can do at home that really just irk my wife. They're not bad. They're not mean. But I know not to do these things. You know why? Because I love my wife. It's not that she holds authority over me. It's not that she bribes me. It's not that she owns me. Do you know why I choose not to do those things that bother her? Because I love her. And because I love her, I make different choices. Because I love my wife, I make different choices in the way I do things. This is how prayer changes you from temptation. Yeah, that was a totally plausible woman. Thank you. Melanie is at home. My children are sick. She's watching online. So let her know you love her every time I mention her name. So put her in the comments below. I love you. Prayer keeps you familiar with God. And the more familiar you are in your relationship with someone, the more you make decisions based on who they are. You know why I know the things that my wife likes and don't like? Because we talk. Because we communicate. Because we're intimate together and I know she likes this and she doesn't like that. She hates it when I do this. She doesn't hate it if I do that. I choose this over that. Isn't that simple? So how does prayer protect us from temptation? It's not a magic bubble. It's not the Iron Man suit. It's not anything special. It's simply this. The more you spend time in relationship with someone, the more they become a part of your The more you consider how your decisions impact how they feel about what you do. So prayer not only guards us from temptation, but then we have the second sense. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. Now without going into a huge theological treatise, if you were to rewind back to Genesis chapter one when God created Adam, what did he do? God reached into the dust of the ground. He formed Adam. And then what did he do? He breathed. The Hebrew word is ruach. It means spirit. So we as human beings are a two part creature. Part of us is physical. It was made from the ground of this earth. But part of us is spiritual. It was breathed in by God himself. This is why the nature of humanity is super important to underpinning a lot of how we learn our relationship with God. There is a part of me that is physical and there is a part of me that is not. I leave this earthly body. This earthly body will stay here on this planet. But there is a part of me that's inside of this earthly body right now that's not going to stay on this planet. Right? When Jesus was on the cross, what did he say to the thief next to him? Today you will be with me in paradise. So there is a part of you that is tied to this earth that will stay here. And there is a part of you that is spiritual that will be with God. Period. So if I understand that, now look at this sentence here. The spirit is willing. That's the eternal breath of God part of me. But the flesh, that's the earthly part of me is weak. I've got to choose to make the spirit govern the physical. And when we talk about some of these other spiritual disciplines, you're going to have to make an active choice to take your spiritual life and put your physical life subject to it. That's what the entire practice of fasting will do for you. Trust me, we'll get there. When we talk about prayer, Jesus says watch and pray so that, meaning what is prayer going to do for me? Number one, prayer is going to help me avoid temptation because my relationship with God will be such that when I see something in front of me, I'll go, that does not make my father happy. I'm going to choose this. And secondly, I've got to recognize the relationship between the spiritual part of me and the earthly part of me. The earthly part of me still wants to drink three gallons of soda a day. The Bible wants to eat a gallon of ice cream at a time. That's not super good for my physical health. It's also not super good for my, it makes me very lethargic. I don't want to pray. I don't want to study my Bible. Did you ever notice how when you're physically tired, your spiritual disciplines go down? So there's a relationship here. So does everybody understand this? So this is foundational. Now I want us to look at Jesus as he taught about prayer. So do me a favor, turn your Bibles with me to Matthew chapter six. If you're digital, you can tap, but turn or tap with me to Matthew chapter six. I want to look at verses five through 13. While you're turning there, let me give you the backstory. This is the gospel of Matthew. Who wrote the gospel of Matthew? Fantastic. Bible scholars, all of you. So Matthew wrote the book of Matthew. Who was Matthew? He was a tax collector. That's right. He was a tax collector called to be a disciple by Jesus himself. And what is Matthew's main message in Matthew's gospel? This is the promised Messiah of the Jewish people. The gospel of Matthew is more Jewish than all of the other three gospels. There's a lot of Hebrew language and Hebrew culture in it. Matthew chapters five, six and seven are the very famous sermon on the mount. Jesus is on an elevated platform and he is teaching a largely Jewish audience. And it's in this setting that we find Matthew chapter six verses five through 13. This is Jesus himself teaching us about prayer. So let's jump into the sermon here at Matthew six starting in verse five. This is the New Living Translation. When you pray, don't be like the hypocrites who love to pray publicly on street corners and then the synagogues where everyone can see them. I tell you the truth. That is all the reward they will ever get. But when you pray, go by yourself, shut the door behind you and pray to your father in private. Your father who sees everything will reward you. When you pray, don't babble on as people of other religions do. They think their prayers are answered merely by the repeating of their words again and again. Don't be like them for your father knows exactly what you need even before you ask him. Pray like this. Our father in heaven, may your name be kept holy. May your kingdom come soon. May your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today the food we need and forgive our sins as we have forgiven those who sin against us. And don't let us yield to temptation but rescue us from the evil one. I really like the way the Lord's Prayer feels and sounds in the New Living. It just has a very contemporary feel. But there's a few points that Jesus makes when he's teaching about prayer and that's what I want to show you. Here's the first thing Jesus makes. Prayer is between you and God. In case that was confusing, let's start foundational. Prayer is a conversation between you and God. That also means prayer is not just information from you to God. Conversation implies two-way communication. Whenever you make time for prayer, you should also make time for listening. If you in your relationship with your spouse only spoke at your spouse but never listened for a response, is that a conversation? I don't think your marriage relationship would be built or edified if all you did was talk at your spouse but never waited for response, never listened to hear. So prayer is a conversation between you and God. So let's start looking at just verses five and six. These three words are my favorite. When you pray. Do you notice this doesn't say if you pray? It doesn't say that. It says when you pray. There is a very clear expectation on the part of the Savior that prayer should be a part of your spiritual life. I can explain this culturally by reminding you that pretty much all of Jesus' audience for the Sermon on the Mount are Jews. Jews already believe in God, they already believe in a creator, they already believe in the entire Old Testament, they believe that God has a covenantal relationship with a special people called Israel, and they believe in prayer. Sure, all of that is totally true. It still doesn't say if you pray. It says when you pray. So the first thing I need you to understand is there is a very real expectation on the part of the Savior that you make time for prayer in your daily life. If you don't, you're not healthy. Ouch. Let's move on from that. Don't be like the hypocrites who love to pray publicly on the street corners and in the synagogues where everyone can see them. This is, if you've ever not thought about it, this is exactly what hypocritical prayer looks like. I'm going to give you an example. While I'm standing up here on the stage, I choose to give this super long, lengthy prayer with all these big words. Does that mean that that prayer is not effectual? No. But can you see into my heart? Can you know whether I was talking to God because I wanted to talk to God and I just happened to be standing up here, or I'm only talking to God so you can see me? You can't see inside my heart. Only I know the difference. Only I know whether the prayer I gave up here was so y'all could see me pray or because I really want to talk to my father and you just happen to be watching. And the same difference that when I'm speaking to my wife, let's say one of you comes across me in the Walmart or in the Target or in the grocery store and I'm saying something very loving to my wife. Do you question whether I was saying that so that you could hear it? No. Because you probably think, oh, I just happened to come across him in the grocery store. He just must love his wife that much. But yet when it comes to prayer, we automatically think the other way, don't we? When you see somebody praying out loud, you're like, oh, they just want to be heard praying. Do you really get the right to determine that? It's really only my heart that determines whether am I praying? So in this example, the hypocrite loves to pray publicly so that everyone can see them. Hypocritical prayer is prayer done not to talk to God, but to be seen in prayer. If the only time you pray is when you're around other people, be careful, you're probably a hypocrite. Just like if the only time you consume ice cream, you're consuming it a gallon at a time, be careful, it's probably not good for you. If the only time you pray is when other people are watching, it's not good for your spiritual health because you're not actually praying for God to hear you. You're praying for other people to think that you pray more than you really do and that's dangerous. So don't be like the hypocrites who pray because other people can see them. And look what Jesus says, I tell you the truth, that's all the reward they will ever get. You know the easiest way for God never to answer any of your prayers? Only pray so other people can see you ask. Then you've already gotten what you wanted out of it. The people around you, the other humans around you think you're more spiritual than you really are. What you asked for means zero to God because you didn't decide to ask for it privately between he and you. You decided to ask for it in front of a bunch of other people. So what you really wanted was to be seen as holy by humans, not heard your request by God. Easiest way for your prayers to go unanswered is pray so other people can see you asking God. I tell you the truth, that's all the reward they will ever get. But when you pray, now Jesus turns again, when you, it doesn't say, but if you get around to praying, but if you wake up early enough to pray, if you pray on your commute, if you remember to pray, it just says when. There's a general expectation on the part of the Savior that prayer is a part of our life. When you pray, go away by yourself, shut the door behind you and pray to your Father in private. There is a level of intimacy in every relationship that can only be shared in private. I think we get that in the physical. You've got to translate the intimacy, get away from thinking of sheer physical intimacy and ask yourself the question, how vulnerable are you in prayer when you're talking to God by yourself? Physical intimacy is easy, we understand that, we understand it happens in a marital relationship, we understand it requires complete and total vulnerability. Spiritual intimacy with God requires the same level of vulnerability. You can't hold back, you can't hide, you've got to be in that moment quietly behind a closed door, just you and your Creator telling you exactly what's going on in your heart. Because here's the funny thing, do you honestly think when you're praying to God you're actually hiding anything? Like have you ever considered that? Have you ever considered when you sit down to pray that God doesn't already know exactly what you're going to say? So then why does He need me to say it? That's what my child would ask, I can hear Micah sitting right there. He's saying, well if God already knows then why am I going to say it? And I would look back at my son and say, I already know you love me but I love to hear you say it. There's part of your relationship that's built by you expressing what's going on inside of you to your Creator, to your Father, to your Savior. Do it quietly. Create a space in your life. My prayer closet is my explorer. It's my car. Because there's nobody in my car but me. Jesus might judge the way I drive but He doesn't judge the way I pray. I'm in my car, there's nobody else around. I can turn the music up, nobody knows if I'm talking on the Bluetooth to somebody from the church or I'm just talking out loud to Jesus. My prayer is my protected space. I can tell God how I feel. And it's okay if I feel scared. And it's okay if I feel frustrated. And it's okay if I feel worried. And it's also okay if I feel full of faith and thankful and gracious and glad and joyous and all that stuff. God doesn't just want my needs, He wants my life. So find a place in your life to have private conversation with God. So that's the first thing you need to understand. Prayer is just between you and God. Second, prayer is not about the amount or the repetition of words. Prayer is not about the amount or the repetition of words. Let's look at verses seven through eight. Again, when you pray. Now that all worked! That's great. When you pray. You notice that not if, not if you get around to it, not when you remember. When you make prayer a priority. Don't babble on and on as people of other religions do. Now remember, Jesus was preaching this sermon in the first century on a hill in Galilee in the Roman Empire where society and culture was polytheistic. There was all kinds of gods. There was all kinds of goddesses. There was all kinds of pagan temples and shrines and thrones and all kinds of stuff going on. We have the advantage today of largely living in a society that's normalized Christianity. Christianity hasn't even been born yet at the time that Jesus is preaching this. Judaism is one of the only few legal religions in the Roman Empire other than the polytheistic Roman gods. So what is Jesus referring to? Jesus is referring to the way the pagans of His day would pray. He's referring to the way the pagans of His day would pray. And you know what they would do? They would have a syllable or they would have a word or they would have a phrase and they would repeat it over and over and over and over. And the more you could repeat it, it was like the more spiritual your prayer was. So I grew up in an American Baptist church just outside of Trenton, New Jersey when I was a kid. And when I was nine, we moved to Tallahassee, Florida and I discovered that there were Southern Baptists. And Southern Baptists had like drums and guitars. Whereas the American Baptist church that I grew up in had a Steinway grand piano that nobody was allowed to touch, which now I understand if I had a Steinway, I wouldn't let kids touch it either. And then we had this pipe organ. So when I moved to the south, people prayed differently. So I'm going to give you an example from my childhood of what this looks like in practice. So Jesus is saying when you pray, don't babble on as people of other religions do. He's talking about the pagan religion of his day. But let me give you an example from my childhood. We moved to Tallahassee, Florida. We walk into this Southern Baptist church. There's drums, there's guitar and bass and there's a huge choir and somebody gets up and they open the service. They go like this. Father God, we just welcome you, Father God, into this place. Father God, we are so thankful. Father God, for your presence. Father God, for your joy. Father God, for your grace. And the words Father God became a drone. It wasn't something they said to address him. It was something they said. It was like a religious um. Think about this. I can say the same exact prayer. God, we're so thankful that you're here. Your presence, your glory. Right? They just took the word um and replaced it with a title. In the Pentecostal church, we'd address the Holy Spirit. In the Baptist church, we address Father God. It doesn't really matter. But the point is, don't over inflate your prayers with words that don't actually have meaning. They're just taking up a second for your brain to catch up. Just pray slower. God, I'm thankful that you're here. God, I'm thankful for your pause. Like let's be honest people, he's the creator of all the universe. He just wants his kids to talk to him. Don't over inflate your prayers with words that just conflagrate the situation. So when I have to take this don't babble on, I'll be honest, I didn't grow up in first century Rome. I didn't grow up in a pagan empire. I didn't grow up with you know temples right down the street where you had sex with temple prostitutes on Sundays. That wasn't my childhood. But I experienced this. And then of course I grew up and I moved into the Pentecostal church and there's a whole other set of babbling. Right? And so I see a vestige of this in our Christian society today. Don't inflate your prayers with words that don't have any meaning. So don't use $13 theological words when $5 Kmart words will work. I'm pretty sure God understands what you mean. Sometimes when I'm around people from school or I'm listening, not Dr. Taylor because he's I mean if he's watching this morning he's basically a redneck with a PhD. So that's why he and I get along so well. But there are some people who they're either in ministry or they're in Bible college and you can totally tell who these people are because they have to use all these like $13 theological words in their prayers. Like Father we thank you this morning for your amazing justification, for your glorification and your adoration at your magnific- like dude, God I thank you for joy. Thurn! Use the $5 Kmart words and don't overfill with the $13 theological words. Why? Because you're really just adding words that have no value. When we talk to God, don't babble on like people of other religions do. Why? Their prayers will be answered by merely repeating their words again and again. Don't make the mistake of thinking that your prayers have more power because of your word choice. Whether that's by repeating words or by using these like overly theological terms. The prayer of a child of faith is just as powerful as the prayer of an adult with a theological PhD. So that means your word choice isn't the thing that makes the difference in your prayers. Don't be distracted by repeating words. Don't be distracted by overly large words. Don't be like them. Why? Because your father knows exactly what you need even before you ask. Understand the omniscience of God. God already knows everything. That's the theological term I need you to get out of today's sermon. Everything. God already knows. Why do we pray then? In the same way that I love it when my daughter sits on my lap and talks to me about her day. I want to have relationship with my children. Can't tell you how many times Mike has tried to explain Minecraft to me. It's right over my head. Doesn't mean I don't like hearing him talk about it. It doesn't mean I don't like it when Emily sits down and tries to explain something to me from YouTube that I just don't get. I get it. I'm an old person. I accept. It doesn't mean I don't love hearing my children talk to me. You don't have to out think God or over inflate your words in order for your prayers to be effective. God wants to have conversation with you. Your prayers are not made more powerful by the way you repeat or the words you choose. Next. Now we're going to get into Jesus's example here. Prayer should put God, his holiness and his kingdom first. Here's what I need to tell you before because now we're about to look at what is commonly referred to as the Lord's Prayer. When I grew up, the Lord's Prayer was something we were supposed to memorize and repeat, right? As a child, we were taught to memorize it. We were taught that this is the like the super most holy prayer because Jesus wrote this prayer and so praying this prayer is more powerful than praying any prayer you can come up with. Now let me ask a simple question. If the previous three verses are true and the power of prayer is not in the word choice, then is the Lord's Prayer any more powerful than your prayers? No, it's not. Here's what I want you to learn this morning. The Lord's Prayer was never intended to be a mantra that you repeat. It was intended to be a model that you follow. So let me say that again. The Lord's Prayer is not a mantra to repeat. It is a model of how to build a prayer that you can then work in your own language. You can work it in your own way. Because think about this. If the Lord's Prayer was truly powerful because of its word choice, then saying it in English means nothing because Jesus didn't speak English. You'd have to go back and repeat it in Aramaic or Greek or Hebrew, whichever language Jesus spoke it in first. It's not about the word choice. It's about the thematic model that Jesus builds for us of how to understand how to talk to God. So with that, here's what I need you to understand. First, prayer is... No, go back. Go back just one. Yeah, prayer should put God, three things. God, His holiness, and His kingdom first. Now take me into the text and let's look at verses 9 and 10. Jesus says, pray like this. No it doesn't say if you pray, pray like this. It says pray like this. First, our Father. Just take these two words. What are the two things it teaches us? Number one, it teaches me my relationship with God. Number two, it teaches my relationship with everybody else who prays to the same God. He's all our Father. It doesn't say my Father, which God could have said. Jesus in divine human form could address His Father in heaven in a totally different way than you and I could because He's actually the second member of the Trinity. But He didn't say that. He said our Father. Who is Jesus' audience on this mountainside? Likely just outside of Capernaum. All the Jews. So what do the Jews think about this relationship? Our Father. They totally know they're God's covenant people. So when we address our Father, we're talking about the God who is my Creator, who is my Savior, my covenant God, but who's also your covenant God. And your covenant God, and your covenant God, and your covenant God, and everybody who says these two words. So these first two words open my perspective to not only how I relate to God, but how I relate to everyone else. Our Father in heaven. This places Him above us. Just in case anybody was curious, God's position of authority outweighs human position of authority. And He outweighs it for everybody. We are all down here because we are His children. He alone is up here because He is the Creator, the Sustainer, and the Father. So our Father in heaven, may your name be kept holy. Now dig back into your Old Testament for a little bit. God is a holy God. God is a righteous God. I also learned in the Old Testament that God is a patient God. God is a loving God. God is a miracle working God. Those aren't New Testament ideas. God poured out 10 plagues on Egypt just so He could let His people go. You know what the end of that sentence is? Let my people go so that they, anybody know the end of the sentence? May worship me. One person got it. Let my people go so they may worship me. All 10 plagues were about getting God's people into the wilderness to worship Him privately. So the entire story of Exodus is about God receiving worship from His people. God's pretty serious about wanting to be in right relationship with His children. So our Father who is in heaven, may your name be kept holy. Now how do I keep God's name holy? Now we really have to have a Jewish mentality here. Is this verse justification for me to judge every person in shop right who uses the name of God incorrectly? No. Who is the only person that I have control of? Me. Yes. Now you're getting it. So our Father, that means me and everybody else who is related to God, who is in heaven, who has more authority than me, may your name be kept holy. I could rephrase that. Hey God, the God of me and everybody else who goes to my church, please help me to honor your name. That's the New International Bill version. Please help me to remember how holy you are and to keep your name in a holy context. And in Hebrew, the name is also representative of the person himself, right? May the name of God be kept holy. That means the name, the person, the authority, the will, all of it is wrapped up in this name. May the name of God be holy in my heart. That's what the context would be to Jesus' listening audience. They're like, yeah, I need to hold God in a holy place in my heart. This is not the gospel according to Christina Aguilera. He's not the genie in a bottle that you just go to with your request and then you get stuff and then you put the bottle back on the shelf. That's not the holy God who unleashed the 10 plagues of Egypt. That's not the holy God who gave the entire land of Canaan to Abraham's descendants. That's not the holy God that ultimately tore down the walls of Jericho. And I could go on and on through all of the Old Testament. God's pretty serious about having a relationship with his children. What's sad is as New Testament Christians, we sometimes disconnect ourselves from the Old Testament God because we only see him as angry and mean or whatever. And you miss the amount of times that he's patient with his children, the promises he makes to his children, the fact that he protects his children even when they're in time out. There's a whole 70 years that happened at the end of the Old Testament called the exile period. Daniel's in there in the lion's den. Esther's in there protecting everybody from genocide. There's a massive amount of patient loving God in the Old Testament. That's not just when Jesus shows up or when the Holy Spirit shows up. No, God's loving from Genesis to Revelation. But we've got to keep him holy in our hearts. And if I'm keeping God in a holy place in my heart, then may your kingdom come soon. Now again, Jewish audience, this word means a lot, right? If I'm a Jew, I understand that I have a covenant relationship with God. I understand that he's made certain promises to Abraham about the land that he's going to give us and the king that he's going to send to us. The Davidic covenant. I'll give you a forever king. So when a Jew talks about the kingdom of God, they're talking about something that's real and yet also not... It's a here and also not yet here kind of mentality. The kingdom of God is real, but it's not done being actualized. The same thing holds true for you and I today. Let me ask you a simple question. Is Jesus still king? But does the world look like it's under his kingship? But does that mean he's not king? No, he still is king. He is king right now. He's on a heavenly throne. He's not on an earthly throne, but Jesus is still totally king. That means his kingdom is real and you and I are a part of it. But is his kingdom fully actualized on earth today? No. So there is such a thing as the kingdom is here and yet not fully realized yet. This is like theology 2.0. You just got to come with me here. Jesus is still king, but we don't see his kingdom in full authority on earth yet. So when you and I are trying to bring this into our modern day understanding of being a New Testament Christian, we're still jointly related to God. We are still responsible to hold him holy in our hearts. We are also still responsible to wait for his kingdom. And I think this is the part that a lot of New Testament Christians miss because you have to have a solid Old Testament understanding of God. Jesus is coming back. Okay, that was the amen moment. Everybody missed it. Let's just rewind. Jesus is coming back. Yes, yes. Why? Just ask yourself a simple question. If the only thing Jesus died on the cross for was to save you from hell, why does he have to come back to do that? He doesn't. He's coming back for his kingdom. There's a promise that's outstanding from the Old Testament that Jesus is the king of kings, the Lord of lords, and he's going to rule on an earthly kingdom. I don't think any of that is metaphorical. I think it is literal. When God says kingdom, I think it means kingdom. You don't just get to unwind it and decide to apply it into some sort of spiritual, ethereal idea. No. When God says I'm going to be a king over a kingdom, I'm pretty sure that's what he meant. And I think we can trust his words because he's God. So you and I as New Testament Christians need to realize that when we are entering into prayer, you are praying to the king whose kingdom is yet to be here. Let me ask you a simple question. If you had the chance to be best friends with the next person who gets elected president, not the president right now, the president who's about to get elected, regardless of who it is, regardless of what party is, regardless of anything else, if you could be best friends with the person who will be in power, would you choose to? Most people would probably... Kingdom people, not government. Come on, help me. Remember, I don't like politics. You got to follow my example and then just jump. If you had the chance... Or let's say we live... Let's say you live in Britain and there's an actual king. Like by the way, did you know, just total rabbit trails, I'm sorry, we're going to pause. We're going to pause and we're going to have an ADHD moment. Did you know that Queen Elizabeth, when we get to like June of this year, she's going to be the longest reigning monarch in human history? She's already the longest reigning female monarch in all of human history. But I think it's like June 2nd. I don't know, my kids were learning about history and so we deep dove Queen Elizabeth. Man, that woman has been ruling England for a long time. I think it's 70 something years at this point. She's got to make it to like June 6th and she'll be the longest reigning monarch in history. But there will come a time when the Lord's going to call Queen Elizabeth home. Oops. All right, that's okay. There will come a time where the Lord's going to call Queen Elizabeth home and there's going to be a new king, right? If you could be friends with the new king before he was the new king, wouldn't you choose that? I'll just take the whole US government out of the equation. If you could be friends with the next king, wouldn't you choose to be? Well, here's the reality. Isn't Jesus, he's already king but his kingdom's not here yet. So if you could choose to be in right relationship with the man who's going to be the king of the world, why would you choose not to do that? It seems really silly to wait for him to be king and then choose to make him important. No, he's king now. The challenge is will you make him king of your heart before he's king of the planet? Because there will come a time, I believe Revelation's super clear, there's coming a time where Jesus is going to be king of the entire planet Earth. I think it's a literal understanding. But I can choose to make him king of my heart, which then makes him king of my marriage, king of my family, king of my children. I can choose that today. May your kingdom, understanding our relationship to the kingdom, and may your will be done on Earth as it is in Heaven. Basically, again, internalize this. As Christians, so here's what's tough. We're filled with the Holy Spirit from the moment of our salvation. But you know what the Holy Spirit doesn't do? He doesn't automatically override your existing human will. So the Holy Spirit is in you and yet, and I don't understand this, how are you the sovereign God of, I'll just totally admit right here, this is where your pastor's an idiot. I'll tell you. I don't understand how God can be the sovereign creator and sustainer of the entire cosmos and yet indwell me with his spirit and still let me screw up. I'm still a human being. I still have a free will. And even though I am indwelt with his spirit, he allows my free will to exist. And he allows me to make stupid choices. Yeah. He could just as easily turn me into an automaton where I can only choose to obey. But those who are forced to love, it's not real love. Love requires choice. Go all the way back to the Garden of Eden. Garden of Eden's rules are really simple. Don't eat from that one tree. Eat from everything else. Like it was pretty much the simplest rule you could get and we screwed it up. Why? Because God created free will creatures because without them, he could not be genuinely loved. He has to create a creature who's allowed not to love him in order for love to be genuine. So may your will be done on earth in the same way it is in heaven. You know what's done in heaven? Creatures freely choose to love and worship God. How do I know the angels have free will? Because there are angels who fell. There are angels who made the choice not to worship God. That means, and now the Bible doesn't specifically say whether angels can still fall or not. So that'll just, I'll leave that for your lunchtime debate with your family. The Bible does not make it clear. But what it does make clear is since freedom of choice is something that an angelic being can have, all of the other angels who are still in heaven are freely choosing to obey and worship God. That's what he wants done here on earth. To have a whole group of creatures who freely choose to worship him. And I'm going to sneeze. Sorry. It would have been easier just to turn the microphone off. I'm sorry. I'll do that next time. So we need to put God first. And then finally here, let's look at the last thing Jesus teaches. Prayer reminds us of our need for God. Now take me to prayer reminds us for our need for God. We'll come back to the question. Prayer reminds us for our need for God. Let's look at verses 11 through 13. Give us today the food we need and forgive our sins. Now keep in mind Jewish audience, when you think about daily bread, what's the Old Testament story that comes to mind? The manna in the wilderness. They had just been redeemed from slavery, but they needed his sustaining power day by day by day. Sounds an awful lot like being a New Testament Christian. We can be completely redeemed from the authority of sin, from the destination of hell, and yet still need his provision day by day to learn how to live for him. Totally true. And forgive us our sins as we have forgiven those who sin against us. Here's a tough one. If you accept that God forgives you of your sins, but don't forgive others when they offend you, you're a hypocrite. Totally. You're a hypocrite. And I'm not saying that to judge you. I'm saying that to tell you the truth. Who are you to accept the forgiveness of a holy God and not forgive another fallen human being? Like, get over yourself. If we're going to accept the forgiveness of a super holy, almighty, sovereign God, and we're going to accept his forgiveness of our bad choices, then we must also be willing to forgive everybody else's whose bad choices hurt us. Even those who hurt us deeply. And I don't want to gloss over the reality. There's some very real things that people hurt people. And hurt people hurt people. Right? Hurt people can hurt people more. You can hurt people by accident. You can hurt people on purpose. But if we are truly going to accept the forgiveness of God, we've got to be able to forgive others. And finally, don't let us yield to temptation. Let's get back to that free will thing for a minute. If your free will still stands, then that means you are free to choose to obey. Temptation may present itself to you, and you are free to say, no thank you, and move on. You are free to turn a different direction and not have to give in. And if you do choose to give in, then it's on you. You can't come back and use the classic, the devil made me do it. No, the devil offered it to you and you freely ate it. Don't look back now and blame Jenny Craig. You totally ate that all on your own. Right? Trust me, I'm a doctor. Now you all need to pray because your pastor just quoted Dre. Just saying. All right. So, I'm going to end today's message by giving you your health question for the week. So here it is. Your health question for the week. If the measure of your spiritual health was determined by your habit of prayer, how healthy are you? Right? It's not the moment to elbow somebody. This is the moment to elbow yourself. I want you to dig deep down and ask yourself a simple question. When was the last time you had a private moment of prayer with God that wasn't so someone else could see it? Remember, we're checking numbers here. This is the pulse. Like, if the measure of your spiritual health was determined by your habit of prayer, how healthy are you today? Because this is one of those things that every healthy Christian should have going on in their life. Whether you pray first thing in the morning, whether you pray after you get that first cup of coffee. You know? I mean, some of us need coffee before you can be human. I get that. Wake up like a werewolf, drink the coffee, turn into a human again, and then spend. I like to pray in my car. That's my personal space. Nobody's in the truck but me. I can pray on my way to work. I can go to the store. Like, that's my space. And I also make a habit out of it. So now, every time I get in my car, it jolts me into prayer, right? Some people have a prayer room at home. You have a room that's a prayer closet, right? You have a room that's dedicated. So when you walk into that space, you can tune out the world. If you do not have a habit of prayer, be careful you might not have a spiritual pulse. Because this is where we got to start. So do me a favor. I want everybody to pull out your cell phones or grab one of the Kinect cards that's in front of you. Because I need you to be very honest with me this morning. Some of you who are either here on campus or perhaps you're joining us online, you've never created a habit of prayer ever. That's okay. Then today, we're going to get out the paddles, clear, and we're going to shock you into health. We're going to shock and bring you into having a renewed spiritual life. So on the Kinect card, you're going to put in your name, your email address, and then it comes down here and it says, what is your next step? It's very simple. I need you to tell me what your next step is. For some, it might be, listen, I need to first, I need to have a relationship with God at all. I don't understand who this God is. I have questions. That's great. I love questions. I love questions because I get the opportunity to answer them. Use the Kinect card, go down to the bottom, ask me the questions that you want to ask. If you've already entered into a relationship with God, then I got to ask, how much do you communicate? How healthy is a marriage if a husband and wife never speak? How healthy is your relationship with God if you and he never speak? If that's your next step today, then I want you to go down the bottom of the card and I want you to say, I'm going to commit to X minutes of weekly prayer, I mean daily prayer every day. I don't know how I would stay married if not get to talk to my wife every day. Even if she's out of town, even if I'm out of town. Take that time for a 10 minute FaceTime call in the morning or in the evening. Some of you travel for work, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Why? Why do you not crave right relationship with your spouse? Why do you not crave right relationship with your creator? Why do you let yourself off the hook? Oh, he already knows what I'm going to say, so I don't need to say it. You don't treat your children that way. You don't treat your spouse that way. Please don't treat God that way. So, look at your next step. What are you going to do today? Become more spiritually healthy. I'm going to ask the ushers to come forward and Dan grab one of the announcement sheets from Donna because I totally forgot to grab it on my way up here. While you're filling out your connect card, the ushers are going to come forward and Ben if you could come play the piano for me very briefly. I also want to give you an opportunity to worship the Lord in giving today. Not because you're paying me back, you're not giving me a tip for giving a sermon. I get the privilege of doing this every single week. But because I believe it is part of our spiritual discipline and we'll get to stewardship later on in the series. Trust me, we're going to get there. We're going to talk about these 6 things that you got to have these habits in your life. One of them is giving of your finances to God. It's a trust factor. It's an obedience factor. It shouldn't be a guilt factor. So if you're feeling guilty this morning and that's why you want to give to God, just keep it. I don't want you to get the idea that I'm asking you to give out of guilt. I'm asking you to give because he's worthy. In the same way that I ask you to join in worship, when the worships team up here doing such an amazing job, it's so that we can worship God. In the same way that I'm telling you to have a relationship with God in prayer daily, it's so we can worship God. That's why we give today. So I'm going to ask you to pray with me. Then the ushers are going to pass the baskets. If you use the physical connection card because you're here on campus, just put it in the basket. It'll go right to the office and it'll get to me. Or you can give electronically by going to catalyst302.com slash give. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we worship you this morning. We worship you because you are great, because you are holy, but most of all because you're God and we're not. We are your creation and we worship you as our creator. We are the saved and we worship you as the savior. We are the children and we worship you as the father. Lord, we give back to you of the many blessings that you've given to us today. Lord, we give to you because you are worthy and because we place our trust in you. Receive all of the gifts given this morning, whether they're physical or digital, receive them into your storehouse as gifts of worship for your greatness, as gifts of thankfulness for your generosity of blessing in our life. We worship you today. In Jesus' name, amen.