That sweet, sweet name of Jesus. That sweet, sweet name of Jesus. The name that overcomes every other name. Lord, we worship to you today for everything that you are. Regardless of your gifts, regardless of your blessings, just for the awesomeness of who you are. Lord, we're so thankful for your presence. We're so thankful for your sacrifice. Lord, be with us today as we receive your word. Let it penetrate deep into our hearts. Father, thank you for this time that we get to honor you together. Be with us this morning in the mighty name of Jesus, we pray. Amen. Amen. ... Good morning. Yeah, make sure I use the technology correctly. Good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I will be your personal health technician for the day. Now, everyone regrets coming to church. Now, my name is Bill. I'm the pastor here at Catalyst, and it is my privilege to share with you from the word of God today. Here at Catalyst, we are pretty much about one thing, and that is loving people to... That's right. Loving people to life change. Jesus loved everyone, but he didn't leave everyone where he found them. And that's part of our process as a church, is to help bring people along deeper in their relationship with Jesus. And one of the ways that we do that is by studying his word together. So we're going to continue my teaching series entitled Habits for Health. Now, before we get into that, I'm going to give you a review of a couple definitions. First, what is a habit? Or no, excuse me. Today's message is going to be Habits for Health, the habit of serving. So we're going to be talking about the habit of serving. What does it mean to serve as a Christian, and how do we do that? So now let me give you a definition. What is a habit? A habit is an acquired behavior regularly followed until it becomes almost involuntary. An acquired behavior regularly followed until it becomes almost involuntary. If you have those three things in your life, something that you have acquired, you didn't start naturally, that you do on a regular basis, almost involuntary, we're going to call that a habit. And sometimes we have good habits, and sometimes we have bad habits. So we call it a quote unquote bad habit when its effectual outcome on our daily life is negative. I had a soda habit when I was a young man. I drank three liters of soda a day. I think most people would say that's probably not good for you. Its net outcome on my life was negative. However, the reverse is also true. We call it a good habit when its effectual outcome on our daily lives is positive. So as you review the habits of your life, are the results of your habits negative, or are the results of your habits positive? Because it's really the results that determine the difference between good and bad habits. It's not whether you like it or not. I am an ice cream aficionado. I love ice cream. That does not mean that my ice cream habit is always good for me, but it tastes good. Right? It's a good habit to explore. It's a good habit to enjoy, but its net gain if I enjoy that habit too often, that its net gain on my life will ultimately be negative. So I want to give you the key thought that's going to meld all of these messages together. I want you to say this with me. Ready? My habits determine my health. Now for everybody who's still waking up one more time. My habits determine my health. Now when you were to go to the doctor's office, what's the doctor going to do? They're going to check your height, your weight, your gender, your blood pressure, your blood sugar, all these different things. They're going to take them all into account in this nice fun little matrix inside their heads. They're going to determine how healthy you are. Well, I'm going to do that with you over the next several weeks as we not look at your physical health, but we examine your spiritual health. Now who can tell me what habit did we look at last week? Prayer. That's right. Thank you. Anthony came to church. Everybody else took a break. Thank you, Anthony. So last week we talked about the habit of prayer and we saw how there's an expectation on the part of Jesus. He said, when you pray. Not if you get around to it, not if you have time, not if it makes it into your already busy work schedule, but when you pray. Today we are going to look at the habit of serving. So if you brought your Bibles or you're watching along at home, I want you to turn or tap with me to the Gospel of John. It's going to be very easy to find. It's the fourth book of the New Testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. And we're going to go to chapter 13. John chapter 13, we're going to read verses 3 through 17. In fact, I think I'm going to use this. Oh no. No. I'll read this one. So Matthew chapter 13, verses 3 through 17. While you're turning there, a little back story. Who wrote the Gospel of John? Very good. Bible scholars all. John. Was John an apostle of Jesus? Yes, he was. What was John's day job before Jesus called him into ministry? He was a fisherman. John had a brother. What was John's brother's name? James. James, there we go. I heard a murmur and I wasn't sure what we said, right? So John and James are fishermen. They are largely from the same area as Peter and Andrew. In fact, Peter, Andrew, John, and James were business partners at one point. How do I know that? Because in the story where Jesus says, Peter, let me borrow your boat, he goes out, he lets out, he catches this massive amount of fish. Somehow he signals from the water way out in the deep and John and James come running. The only way that happens is if they had a pre-established understanding of how to work together. So James and John are fishermen, followers of Jesus. John is also the last of the four Gospels to be penned. It's penned towards the end of the first century. So here we go. Let's take a look at John, chapter 13, verses 3 through 17. And I'm reading it for you in the Holman Christian Standard this morning. Jesus knew that the Father had given everything into his hands, that he had come from God, and that he was going back to God. So he got up from supper, laid aside his robe, took a towel, and tied it around himself. Next, he poured water into a basin and began to wash his disciples' feet and to dry them with the towel tied around him. He came to Simon Peter, who asked him, Lord, are you going to wash my feet? Jesus answered him, what I am doing you don't understand now, but afterward you will know. You will never wash my feet, ever, Peter said. Jesus replied, if I don't wash you, you have no part with me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head. One who has bathed, Jesus told him, doesn't need to wash anything except his feet. But he is completely clean. You are clean, but not all of you. Verse 11, for he knew who would betray him. This is why he said, you are not all clean. When Jesus had washed their feet and put on his robe, he reclined again and said to them, do you know what I have done for you? You call me teacher and Lord. This is well said, for I am. So if I, your Lord and teacher, washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you also should do just like I did. I assure you, a slave is not greater than his master and a messenger is not greater than the one who sent him. If you know these things, you are blessed if you do them. So where are we right now in the Gospels? We are in the upper room. We are in the beginning of the Passion Week where Jesus will sacrifice himself. And he is having a very private and intimate moment with his disciples. In the upper room. But there are a few things that I want to point out here. So the first is this. We must set aside our pride to follow Christ's example. We must set aside pride to follow Christ's example. And I would submit to you this morning, there are two enemies of service and pride is a big one. Let's take a look at verses three and four. Jesus said, I will not betray you. Let's take a look at verses three and four. Jesus knew the Father had given everything into his hands. Now let's just quickly review here. Jesus is the incarnate Son of God. That means he is fully God and fully man. That means Jesus knew the plan. Right? Passion Week, the cross, the resurrection, these are surprises to us as humans. But they are not surprises to Jesus who is the divine Logos, the Son of God. Right? So Jesus understood that his Father had given everything into his hands. He understood fully that he had come from God. And he understood fully that he was going back to God. If you do not understand this sentence, this opener, you are not going to understand the power of the story. So let me ask you a simple question. Did Jesus know he was God? Yes. The answer to that question is yes. Did Jesus know he was God? Yes. John 3 right here tells us that. Jesus knew the Father had given him all authority, everything into his hands. He also knew that he came from God. He also knew that he was going back to God. These are sure things in the mind of the Savior. But look at the next sentence. So he got up from supper, laid aside his robe, took a towel, and tied it around himself. Now I would say this is probably the best description of Jesus' entire life and ministry. Jesus is the divine Son of God. So that means Jesus was around before everything. That's a theological term. It means all heaven and earth, everything. Right? Jesus was around before everything. In fact, if we go to John 1, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and through him all that was created, and there's nothing that was made without him. Jesus pre-exists all the cosmos. He will also be Savior and King for all eternity. And yet, he set aside his robe. I don't think John is making a mistake. And I don't think it's an accidental ad. Was Jesus wearing a robe on this very night? Most likely. That was part of their common dress for the day. But in the grand picture, see, in John, we have a much more elevated Christology. So Christology is the study of Jesus and the development of who he is in the Bible. Matthew, Mark, and Luke, they're the synoptic hostels. They give you a very earthen historical picture of Jesus. But in John, we open with John as already the divine Son of God. John knows that Jesus is God. So when John writes a story and he said, he laid aside his robe and he took on a towel, he is also giving us an indication or a key that Jesus is the King of Kings, but he laid aside the robe of royalty and he put on the towel of servanthood. That's the whole mission of Jesus. I mean, from birth to death to resurrection, that's what he did. In fact, if we go to Paul, it said he thought of himself not equal with God, but willingly set aside. He willingly set aside some of his glorious nature in order to become a servant. If we don't see it here, we might be tempted to forget that we bring pride into the equation when we serve. So many of you know this. I super suck at sports, right? I say that all the time so that whenever they restart the softball league, no one makes the mistake of inviting me to play, right? So Mike would just said that in front of the whole church. So everybody knows, Bill doesn't play. But I am a musician. I am a singer. I am a stage performer. I went to a performing arts school. I studied acting and singing and dancing and all that super fairy fun stuff in high school. And everybody made fun of me all the time because I'm a super big dude and I cannot play a single stitch of sports. But put me in a choir and I can sing. Give me a guitar and I can play. You know one thing I can tell you that all musicians have in common, and this is not to insult our worship team. They're the exception. They're amazing. But most musicians were a little flaky and sometimes we can be a little prideful and we can be a little touchy about our skills because we love being out there. We love doing it. I'll tell you assuredly, pride is one of the most biggest enemies to being a Christian servant, to being a servant who serves in order to honor God. And that's really the difference. Because some people come to me and say, Pastor, you believe that only Christians can do good acts of service? No, that's just stupid. You don't need to believe in Jesus to serve your fellow man. In fact, I think the church could do a better job at that, honestly. We don't have to believe in Jesus to do good for people. But the difference is those of us who do believe in Jesus, we do good for people because of him, not because of me, not because of, look at me, I am so amazing. I'm going to serve better than everybody else. That's not the heart of a servant. That's not setting aside the robe to pick up the towel. That's why the opener of this story is important. John is letting us know that, listen, Jesus... And the other reason I think the first sentence is important is so you don't get distracted and think, well, maybe Jesus didn't know he was God. Maybe he didn't know all that he was putting down. No, he knew. Look at what it says here. Jesus knew the Father had given him everything into his hands, all authority on heaven and earth. Jesus knew he came from God and he knew he was going back to God. Let me just ask you a simple question. If you were born into the royal family of England and you were set to be the next royal when Queen Elizabeth graduates this life, and you willingly knew you came from royalty, I'm going back to royalty, would you bother serving the little people? I have to be honest. If that was me, I might not. Because I'd be trained my whole life to believe that I was meant for greater, that I was purposed for bigger. We have to let go of that mentality if we're going to be the kind of servants that Jesus wants us to be. It doesn't matter where you come from, how much authority you have, how good looking you are, how skilled you are, how much money you have, where your job is, where your job isn't, what the color of your skin is, how much you weigh, how cool your accent is. None of that matters. Why? Because Jesus knew all of that and he set aside the robe for the towel. So if we're going to follow Jesus' example, we have to set aside our pride. But there's another enemy. So let's take the next thing. Serving is also humbly meeting a need. Somebody asked me, how do you serve? You humbly meet a need. What does that look like? Well, I don't know. What are the needs in front of you at the moment? Let's watch the way Jesus handles this. Now that he set aside the robe for the towel, let's look at verse 5. So he says, next, he poured water into a basin and began to wash his disciples' feet. Does anybody else think this is kind of icky? Right? Okay. Me and Anthony, we're going to have a moment, right? So, I personally don't like feet. Is that okay to say in church? Like I don't like feet. The idea of washing feet feels really weird to me. But I have to remember, I have grown up in our time, in our country, in our culture. So let's take off the 2022 glasses for a minute and let's go back to the first century. There's a huge cultural impact here that we miss if we just look at feet and washcloths or you know, go to the dollar store and get you a little loofah. That's not what was going on here. So, first I have to ask the question, why do the disciples' feet need to be washed at all? What was the common footwear of the day? What was the common road of the day? Dirt roads. What do dirt roads and sandals equal? Dirty feet. Dirt road plus sweaty sandal feet equals icky sweat mud between your toes. Right? Everybody's super interested in lunch right now. Yucky sweat mud in between your toes. Now, keep in mind, only wealthy people in Jesus' day had any mode of transportation that kept their feet off the ground. Maybe a donkey. Romans, maybe a horse. Right? But the common everyday person got there by putting one foot in front of the other. They had leather thong sandals. Feet are all out in the open. If it's raining, you're walking through mud. If you're walking down the main thoroughfare of a city, you're walking through animal excrement in the street because that's the way they did it. So, by the time you get to someone's house, your feet be nasty. Okay? That's another theological term for you today. Your feet be nasty. So, what do people do? Well, there was a common understanding of the day. If I were to invite you into my home, it was my responsibility as your host to clean your feet. Because hospitality is a big thing in ancient Near Eastern culture. It's still a big thing in Middle Eastern culture today. Be hospitable. Love your fellow man. So, it was a common understanding that if I were to invite you over to my house, it is my responsibility to see that your nasty feet get unnasty before coming into my house. But as I already told you, I don't like feet. Thankfully, if I were of a wealthy enough stature that I had a home, I likely also had servants who served in my home. So, I would call upon one of my servants and they would be responsible for cleansing your feet before you entered my house. This does two things. A, it accomplishes the Middle Eastern goal of hospitality. I show you care and concern. B, it keeps your nasty feet off my floor. That's also a thing. But here's the thing. Culturally, the lowest of the lowly servants washed the feet. Jesus is the one who took the robe off. He's the highest ranking person in the room. And yet, he is the one who takes off the robe. He pours water into a basin. He began to wash his disciples' feet. And this is important, to dry them with the towel tied around him. What is the towel? The towel is the symbol of Jesus' servanthood. What is happening here? Watch this. Jesus, taking on the role of a servant, puts himself in a position to take that which makes humans dirty and put it on himself. That's what just happened right here. Jesus is foreshadowing what you and I now already know what's happened. We have 2,000 years of history and the benefit of the... I'm going to put that right there. Right there, canonized word of God. We have the benefit of knowing what Jesus came to do. They don't. This is happening in real time. So what does Jesus do? Jesus is showing him his story. He says, listen, I knew I came from the Father. I know I have all authority. But I'm going to take off that authoritarian robe. I'm going to put on the role of a servant. And what's going to happen? Through my service, I will make you clean. I will take that which makes you icky, dirty and nasty and I will take it upon myself as I am your servant. That's what Jesus is telling them. He's making a massively theological statement through a common cultural act. He's humbly meeting a very important need. I think sometimes the loudest statements we can make for Jesus are ones that are made in our common everyday vernacular. You don't have to have the $30,000 theological words to show someone the love of Jesus. It's one of the reasons I love the mission statement here at Catalyst. Loving people to life change. It starts by loving people. And y'all be perfectly honest, as a pastor, there's one thing I've learned in 20 years of ministry. I'm going to save you the $50,000 in getting a Bible degree. Here's the most important thing you need to understand about ministry. People do not care what you know if they don't know that you care. $40,000 degree and 20 years of ministry and I learned the very thing that my mentor taught me on day one. Could have saved all that time. People do not care what you know until they know that you care. Jesus as the example sets aside his pride. He also sets aside something else. Lazyness. I'll be honest, laziness is the enemy of service. Lazyness keeps us comfortable in our recliners, in our beds, in our pillows, in our soft microfiber blankets watching Netflix and eating cheesy popcorn. Instead of setting aside the pride, setting aside the comfort, doing an act of service. Now, are we the people who ultimately cleanse people from sin? No. No act of service that I as a human can do will equal the act of service that Jesus has already done. Yes, totally true. I am not teaching heresy today. But you know what? I bet you that one act of service that I can do might draw someone closer to the servant who can cleanse all of them. It's not my job to do Jesus' job. It's my job to introduce everybody to the Savior who already did the job. He's already taken upon himself everything that makes you and I sinful and dirty. Oh, thank you very much. Forgot. Jesus has already done the big servant job. What we have to do is be culturally aware. What's going on around me? One thing that I have been trying to teach my son. So Micah's 12, just about as tall as my wife, dear goodness. I'm trying to teach him every time we're in public, whether we're going into a restaurant, whether we're going into a store. If the door doesn't automatically open, you hold that door open for every single person coming in and out. Then you come in and you catch up with me and your mother. Simple act of service. Every time... And sometimes my wife and my younger daughter, they get embarrassed. When we're on our way out of Olive Garden having lunch, I will legit hold open the door. Welcome to Olive Garden. Thank you so much. Have a fantastic evening. I will straight up greet for Olive Garden on my way out the door. I am not ashamed. But that's because I make it a point to remind myself to be hospitable at all times, in all places. And yes, most people tend to think it's pretty funny. Another thing since... I mean Rob, you're probably going to get this since you're a height advantageous individual. You ever been walking through the grocery store and you're walking by? Yeah, he just did it. And you see somebody who just can't quite reach that grocery store? Can't quite reach that can on the top shelf, right? I'm like, may I reach that for you? And sometimes they're like uber insulted. And then sometimes you have the people who are trying to catwalk up the thing. And I'm like, whoa, whoa, whoa! Please don't hurt yourself. Look. Boop. There you go. You want another one? Boop. Right there. Simple acts of service. But you know what it shows? Number one, it shows that I'm not oblivious to the humans around me. Because they're my mission field. I'm not oblivious to the other humans that live in my community. Because you know what? Jesus died for them too. Jesus died for all of them as he did for me. Jesus cleansed all of them as he did for me. So I've got to get over my pride. I've got to get over my laziness. But watch this. I've also got to get over myself. Watch this. We may not know the result of our service. You may not know the result of what you do. Watch. Let's take a look at verses 6 through 9. This is Simon Peter. Absolutely favorite. He's the ADHD disciple for sure. Watch. John chapter 13. Take it to verse 6. He, this is Jesus, came to Simon Peter who asked him, Lord, are you going to wash my feet? Do you see how Peter realizes he's lesser than Jesus? So when Jesus flips the script, Peter doesn't get it. Has anybody ever been in a situation where like, God, I totally do not understand what you're doing right now in my life. Come on. That was me all last week trying to figure out how to buy this house. God, I understand you're in control. I understand you've decided not to explain what's going on to me. And I understand that that really freaks me out. That was my prayer all week last week. Donna can tell you. I was freaked out most of the last week. Sometimes I don't get it. Sometimes I don't. And I think that's okay. Because here, if I'm understanding this culturally, Peter doesn't understand what's going on either. Peter the redneck fisherman called by Jesus does not get it. Lord, are you going to wash my feet? Peter has to be southern. He's a redneck. And then Jesus answered, well, what I am doing you don't understand now. Did they fully understand the way that Jesus was going to die and forgive sins? Do we see it in the way he spoke? Yeah, we totally do. But they didn't get it yet. They hadn't experienced the resurrection. They hadn't experienced the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in Acts chapter one. So let's give them a beat and give them a little pause. Allow them to be human. Allow them to be real people. Jesus says, but what I am doing, dude, you just don't get it yet. Be patient. But afterwards you will know. But you will never wash my feet ever. Peter said, Jesus replied, if I don't wash you, you have no part with me. And then on a dime, right? Favorite ADHD. But Lord, not only my feet, wash my hands and head too. I mean, Peter goes from, no, Jesus, don't wash my feet to give me a whole bath. Jesus, I mean, Peter had no problem changing gears on a dime. Why? Because Peter understood he didn't understand. Peter understood, I don't understand. I think that's a powerful statement. Because there are times where God is going to call you to do something and you're not going to get it. So let me ask you the question. When presented with the service opportunity that you don't understand, do you do it or do you back away? I would submit to you the godly thing is to do it. Because if you back away by merely what you don't understand, what you have ultimately said to God is, my understanding is more important than your calling. Do you think Moses understood when he stood in front of the Red Sea and he put that staff down at that moment? Do you think he understood the physics of how the Red Sea was going to part? Do you think when Elijah stood on Mount Carmel and taunted the prophets of Baal, hey, Mazar-gadi on the potty, what's going on? Do you think he fully understood the pillar of fire under how that was going to work? Do you think Joshua understood? And I could go on and on. Do you think Esther understood? Do you think Daniel understood? I think one of our big problems as Americans is we have a Burger King fast food mentality to Christianity. I want it my way and I also want it in one simple transaction so I can feel good about my evangelistic efforts. I want to say hi, introduce to Jesus, we have a prayer, I move on. I move on, yay, God, I did my job, back to my life. We want a full understanding of the picture. What I get, and I love Peter, he is my absolute favorite. He doesn't get it, but at least he's willing to admit I don't get it. And all of a sudden, I don't understand, well, fine, then wash my hands, wash my feet. What does Peter not understand? He doesn't understand what Jesus is symbolizing. He's not just symbolizing cleaning the exterior of the feet one time. The feet represent humanity. The icky and the nasty and the dirt represent sin. And what Peter does not fully understand yet is that what Jesus is about to do will cleanse him from sin for the rest of his life. You and I understand that immediately when we come to the story of the Bible because we have the advantage of having the entire Word of God in a book. This book wasn't canonized like this for hundreds of years after these events took place. Those first few hundred years, Christians had to live on a whole lot more faith and a whole lot more spirit. Because we didn't have the book yet. Now we're blessed. We have the written Word of God inspired by the Spirit of God. And somehow we forgot to show people the love of God. I'm not sure how that worked. But here, Simon Peter doesn't get it yet. And then watch what happens. We may not know the result of our service. The next one. To follow Jesus is to follow his example. To follow Jesus is to follow his example. Let's take a look at verses 12 through 15. When Jesus had washed their feet. This implies Jesus cleaned the feet of every single person in the room. So theologically, what is Jesus saying? I'm here to cleanse everyone's sin. Not just the special people. Not just the people who came to my dinner invitation. There are plenty of parables that unwind that mentality. He washed their feet. Then he put back on his robe. There will come a moment in the history of Jesus where he takes off the role of a servant. And he regains the role of the king. When did that happen? Some would argue it happened at his resurrection. I would say absolutely definitively it happened at his ascension. Whether the 40 days between his resurrection and ascension. Anybody wants to debate that one with me over lunch. You buy and I'll talk and we'll have a great time. So he puts back on his robe. He reclined again and said to them. Do you know what I have done for you? You call me teacher and Lord. And this is well said for I am. Like duh. I am your teacher. I am this word Lord here in the Greek is kourios. It means one who has authority over you. If you've ever been in the military, right? If there's someone in the military who has a higher rank than you. That is by definition your kourios. Your commanding officer. Your centurion. So Jesus is saying here. I'm not just the person who teaches you. I am also the person that directs or commands you. And this is true because that's who I am. So if I your commander and your teacher. I have washed your feet. You also I love this word. Ought to wash one another's feet. For someone who's getting a degree in philosophy. This word ought is a fantastic word. You know what it implies? The word ought implies moral value. It's not just something I should do. That's something that might be good for me. When he uses the word ought. Something I ought to do. I have an obligation on behalf of my savior to do this action. What's the action? If my savior, the king of kings, the lord of lords, the promised messiah of Israel. Born of a virgin. Died on a cross. Resurrected from a tomb. And ascended from the Mount of Olives. That guy? If that guy was willing to be a servant. And I belong to him. I have no justification for not also being a servant. So in case no one told you. Being a Christian is not part of being in a club. It's being on a team. That serves the rest of humanity. Our job is not to put on the nice new. You know you get those gold name tags. Anybody ever had a job where you get a gold name tag. And all of a sudden you get your name on it. Maybe your title. Comes with a corner office. A fancy chair. Man, I've made it. You know what your title says? Servant. Why? Because our king of kings and lord of lords took his robe off to put on a towel to be a servant. That means all of us ought to wash one another's feet. We ought to be looking for opportunities to serve our fellow humans. Why? Not just because service is good. And this is where our theology has to match with our practice of our faith. You can go out and do a good thing for someone. And you can go out and do that same good thing for Jesus. What makes the difference? Whether you told them or not. Right? So if I go and let's pretend that I know how to fix cars. Another thing I don't know how to do. Right? But let's just pretend. Or no. Better example. My neighbor has a computer problem. Right? This will put it more in my alley. I'm a geek. My neighbor is having a problem with their internet. Or my mom who calls me anytime she has a cell phone problem. I am the long distance tech support for my parents who live in South Florida. They call me up. They try to explain what's going on with the phone. I'm like on Google because I'm not an android user anymore. But they stuck with it. So I got to like Google it and find the menu structure and help find. Am I doing all of that just because I'm a good person? Or am I doing all of that because Jesus has made me that good person? That's the difference. If he as our teacher and Lord was a servant, we ought to watch one another's feet. Why? For I have given you an example. This is Jesus talking. I didn't make it up. I promise. It's in the book. You can read it for yourself. If Jesus set the example, then the easy question to ask is, When was the last time you followed that? This is a hard one. Because it's not just asking me do I believe something. It's not just asking me do I know something. No. Jesus is asking are you doing something? Is your Christianity just get out of hell insurance? Like is it just fire insurance for your eternity? Or I could say it the other way. Are you a Christian just so you can reserve the non-smoking section in heaven or in eternity? You can have non-smoking or smoking. Is your faith just the fire insurance from hell? Or is your faith to actually follow the example of Jesus of Nazareth? I think on Easter, we proved beyond a shadow of a doubt. Jesus of Nazareth is an actual historical figure. He actually lived. He actually died. He actually rose. If you did not hear that, talk to me. Trust me. It's true. But I can tell you I spent plenty of years as a younger man knowing that I was a Christian but living like a pagan. Sunday morning was the only time that I looked like a Christian. Definitely not Friday night. Totally not Saturday night into like 1 a.m. Sunday morning. But then somewhere around 7 a.m. or 8 a.m. or sometimes 9 a.m. On Sunday morning, all of a sudden, I took off my worldly robe and I put on my Christian towel and I went to church. And then I felt like a Christian. But my lifestyle did not reflect this moral ought to follow an example. You should do just as I have done for you. Now, there are some denominations within Christianity who still practice foot washing as a symbol. If you've never been or witnessed a foot washing, it is an incredibly humbling experience. My cousins, when they got married, so I have my female cousin when she married her husband, he washed her feet as part of their wedding ceremony. It's the only time I've seen it done in a wedding. I've seen it in other places. But that moment really stuck in my mind. Because obviously, my cousin, I've known my whole life that I've grown up. But here's this guy who thinks that he's good enough to marry into my family. And of course, I have problems with that. So, you know, to see him make himself a servant in such an amazing way in front of a couple hundred people who are in that church, man, that's a powerful statement. My life is meant to be a servant. My life is meant to give up my pride, to give up my laziness, to give up my control to follow Jesus' example. One last point. There is a blessing that comes from serving. Let's look at verses 16 and 17. There is a blessing that comes from serving. I assure you, just take these three words for exercise. Does Jesus tell the truth? That one took a minute. Let's ask that again. Does Jesus tell the truth? Yes. Yes, there we go. Okay. So, I assure you, so if Jesus is telling me something, am I assured that what he's about to say is true? Yes, I am. I assure you, a slave is not greater than his messenger. And a messenger is not greater than the one who sent him. If you know these things, you are blessed if you do them. Do them. Now, I absolutely believe that God blesses his people. In fact, I was having a wonderful conversation about blessing with my faculty advisor from school. But I'll tell you this. Blessing does not always equal dollars. So, let's just take that. In our American mentality, we often boil everything down to dollars and cents. The blessing of God from the beginning to the end of the Bible is so much bigger than dollars. What is money? You realize money, our dollar, our American dollar didn't exist when Jesus was alive. That's how insignificant it is in comparison to his kingdom. It definitely didn't exist when Joshua was taken Canaan or when Daniel and Esther were in Babylon or when Abraham was receiving the first promises of blessing from God. So, you've got to get out of your wallet-based, money-based, you know, what's in your wallet mentality. The blessing of God is so much bigger. It encompasses things like provision, protection, security. It encompasses those things, but it's greater than that. And if you have not experienced God's direction, that's a blessing. Oftentimes in the Old Testament, God is viewed as the shepherd and we are viewed as his sheep. The shepherds not only protect the flock, they provide for the flock, they direct the flock. They move the flock. He keeps them away from the running water. They're going to drown in, moves them to new pastures so they can eat. Just think of Psalm 23. That's all about God's shepherd blessing on his people. But there's a promise in here just in case you missed it. First, we understand a slave is not greater than his master. Who's the slave? That's all humans. Who's the master? Jesus. A messenger is not greater than the one who sent him. Who's the messenger? Humans. Who's the one who sent him? Jesus. Jesus. So, if you know these things, which I think we all get that right. Anybody in here think they are better than Jesus? Don't raise your hand. Put that on your connection card so we can talk about it. If we understand that we're not better than Jesus, if you know these things, you are blessed if you do them. Here's the tough truth today. You will not be blessed by God for knowing what's right if you don't do what's right. I can't water down the Bible for you. Jesus is the one who said it. I'm just trying to help you have some light on that. You can know what's right and still ignore it and not be blessed because of it. Or you can know what's right and do what's right and be blessed by the King of Kings, by the Lord of Lords, by the returning Savior. Because you did what you knew was right. All I can do today is beg you to get this. Beg you. You know why? Because there's millions and millions and millions of people on this planet who are going to go to hell. Because we haven't figured out how to love them into the kingdom. We've put up picket signs or we've stood our ground on our theology instead of understanding that theology... And I'll be honest, here's my take. Theology, as important as it is, is an in-house discussion. It's a kitchen table discussion, right? I shouldn't be interviewing you on your theology on your way inside my house. I should be opening the door. I should be loving you. I shouldn't give you a 50-question interview and a questionnaire and ask you where you stand on the sovereignty of God or the constitutional creation of man or what millennial view you have of the coming kingdom. We shouldn't put our theology before our missiology, the mission. Our mission is to love people into life change. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind and your strength. And love your neighbor as yourself. Our mission statement in five words gets the great commandment and the great commission. Puts them into Oreo and it's fun. I also love Oreos in case I didn't mention that. See? My question to you today is very simple. Do you do this? Are you a member of the kingdom that actually serves? Because here's the reality. There's no retirement from the kingdom of God. There's no retirement. There's no, I've been in this church life long enough and I, you know, pastor, I've done this and I've done that. That's fantastic. Please find a Bible verse where it tells me that you age out of the mission and we'll talk about it. But what I see is it's a lifelong calling to represent Jesus to a hurting and broken and lost world that needs to know he died for them. Before they can know how to understand him. So, it's not that I think theology is important. I think apologetics is important. But we don't put all of that on the front door and make it a requirement to get in house. Let's get people saved and then we teach them and raise them. Right? That's just as stupid as, and granted I'm not a fisherman, right? But I do understand that to be a successful fisherman, you don't take a boat out on the water and then stand there and say, come you lucky fish, come jump in my boat. I'm pretty sure that's not how people fish. Why? Because in order to be successful, you have to get to where the fish are. You have to give them something they need. You have to meet a need, take the time, don't be lazy, and love people enough to draw them into serving. So, are you doing that today? Are you practicing this additional habit for health? So, do me a favor, everybody who's here, pull out your cell phones. So, this is a part of our service where it's time for you to respond. If you're watching at home or you're online, if you'll go to catalyst302.com slash connect, those of you who are here in the room, you can scan this QR code right off the screen or scan it. It's also on the handout that we gave you. I'd like everybody, drop my stethoscope. Again, it's one half of a doctor outfit. I want everybody to pull up their connect card. This is your chance to respond. Are you a servant? You know how I define a servant? People who actually serve, not people who call themselves servants. People who call themselves servants but don't actually serve are liars and hypocrites. Are you a servant today? So, do me a favor, fill out that connect card, and you can see there what's my next step. Maybe you're here, you're either in-house or online, and you've never made the decision to trust in Christ. That's your first step. Today, I surrender my life to Jesus. I accept his forgiveness. I'm now part of the team. Maybe you need to get baptized. If you've never been baptized, please put that on your card. Let me talk to you about it. I want you to understand the full understanding of what baptism is a symbol of. Maybe you need to join a community. Maybe it's time for you to take that step. Not just attend Catalyst. I want to be a partner. I want to be on Team Catalyst. Some very exciting things coming down the road. Not totally done sharing it yet, but trust me, you want to be a part of Team Catalyst. We got some big things coming. Maybe you're here, but you're not in a service position yet. I need you to join the team and get in the game. Maybe you need to learn how to live by the Spirit. Follow God's direction in your life. So if you're joining us online, go to Catalyst302.com slash connect. You can click there. I watched online. I attended online. Even if you're watching this service after the service has ended, I still want to hear from you. This is your opportunity to actively participate in our service. I get connect cards all throughout the week from people in other states. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays. Connect cards still roll in. We're still able to minister to people. Why? Because this service is going to be online later. If you're watching this online and it's after the service time, please know I'm still looking to hear from you. I want to connect with you and I want to find out how I can help you to grow in your faith. While you're finishing filing your connect card, I'm going to ask the ushers to come forward. If you do not use your phone, there are connect cards here in the chairs in front of you. Please pull one out. Please fill it out. You can put it in the basket along with this morning's tithes and offerings and turn it in that way. It'll still get to the office. I'll still be able to connect with you. But I'd like to invite you to give and give to the Lord in worship today. Not out of compulsion, not out of guilt, and definitely not out of the idea that you're going to buy your way into heaven. That does not work. Salvation comes by faith alone, through Christ alone, because of God's grace alone. But giving is a spiritual discipline. We're going to get to it later on in this series. But I'll tell you right now, trusting the Lord in your finances is a tough one in our culture because we're so money driven. Don't put money before God. Put God before money. That's why we give. So I want to pray with you and then we're going to give this morning. Heavenly Father, I thank you that you have called us to follow your example, to trust you in all things, to worship you above all others. Lord, we give our tithes and offerings to you this morning because you alone are the King of Kings and you alone are worthy of all of our worship. Receive our gifts this morning in the attitude in which they are given, not in compulsion, but as we worship you as our risen Savior. Receive it in Jesus' name. Amen.