If you are listening to this sermon, even if you're watching it online, after the fact Sunday is already gone, you're watching it Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, next week, next month, or next year. I need you to know that this church loves you and we want to see you grow in your relationship with Jesus. And one of the ways that we do that is by studying His Word together. So that's what we're going to do this morning. I'm going to be continuing our series entitled Habits for Health. And this morning we are going to talk about the habit of the Bible, specifically how we spend time with God's Word. Now as a way of review, let's first review the definition. What is a habit? A habit is an acquired behavior regularly followed until it becomes almost involuntary. And again, I want to point out that just because you don't have the habit right now doesn't mean you can't acquire it. The implication is that even those habits that you don't have can be gained. You can create new habits. You can get rid of old habits. You are not stuck in the habitual paradigm in which you live right now. You can change that. But we need to define the difference between good habits and bad habits. So we call a habit bad when its effectual outcome on our daily lives is negative. If there is a behavior that you have acquired, that you regularly follow, that has a negative impact on your life, that's a bad habit. You should probably work on getting rid of that. Now the reverse is also true. We call it a good habit when its effectual outcome on our daily lives is positive. Paul, can you turn me down just a tad? I feel like I'm already yelling at everybody and I'm not excited yet, so it's only going to get worse. So we call it a good habit when its effectual outcome is positive. If you have a habit, something you've acquired, that you regularly do, that benefits your daily life, then that's a good habit. And you should continue those. So here's the key thought for this series. Here's the key thought we're going to use to string this all together. Read this with me. My habits determine my health. One more time. My habits determine my health. That is why I have decided to wear this costume every week for this series, is I want you to understand that I am your spiritual health clinician. And just like when you go to the doctor's office, when you go to the hospital, and they measure a bunch of things about you, your age, your height, your weight, your gender, your blood pressure, your blood sugar, cholesterol level. They take all of those individual markers and as a unit, they all establish how healthy of a person you are. When I go to the doctor, and I try to go about every year, every two years, I'm like, okay, doc, pull the, you know, check the tire, check the oil pressure, all that fun jazz. Tell me how healthy I am. On the numerics, I'm rather healthy. Am I overweight? Yeah, totally. Guilty. Do I still have a propension for ice cream at every meal? John, looking at you. Exactly. Right? If John can make it to be that age and that good looking, eating ice cream, I'm going for it. You're my life goal right now, John. That's what it is. But there are other habits that I practice that I know are healthier for me. So as we look at these different spiritual habits, I would say that as Christians, we need to live a spiritual life, right? Last week we talked about the fact that we're both physical creatures and spiritual creatures. We looked at Adam and how he was formed from the dust of the ground but breathed in by God and that we have a spiritual life. Your spiritual life requires spiritual habits, things that are going to help you grow and be healthy. So this week we are going to talk about the Word of God. And I want to make one point here. The Word of God is only as good for you as the amount and frequency of it that you eat. Kind of like broccoli. So let me give you a little story. Two brothers are hungry. They walk into the forest. They start looking for food. In a clearing, they come upon a tree, beautiful tree, bearing these amazingly lush fruit. They're tired. They sit down. They lean their backs up against the tree and they eat their fill of this delicious fruit. One brother says to the other, we should take this home. And he goes, yeah, we totally should. So one brother takes his shirt and he holds it out like this and he fills the front of his shirt with fruit and he rushes home. The other brother looks at him, goes home, gets a shovel, digs up the tree and the roots and moves the tree to his house. One brother had enough for one or two days. The other brother had enough for a lifetime. The question is, are you bringing the source of nutrients home with you or do you have to come here every time you eat it? Right? Exactly. Right? That one's okay to preach. I would imagine many of us growing up in America, we have Bibles at home. As a pastor, people give me Bibles as a gift sometime. I probably have two dozen different Bibles at home. Different translations. Some of them have different, different side notes, different studies. There's a ton of them. You know how many of those I actually read at home? Maybe one. And most of the time I listen to the audio Bible and so I've got ears in and I'm listening to it on my phone. It's not wrong to have Bibles at home. It's wrong to have a whole bunch of Bibles at home and never eat any of it. That's like bringing the fruit tree all the way home just to look at it and see how pretty it looks on your nightstand. Just to look at it, it's the one that you keep. It's the family Bible. It's the nice big one, leather bound, super expensive, sits in the middle of the living room and you dust it off so people think you read it but you don't actually. If you're going to bring the source of life all the way home, maybe you should actually eat it on a semi-regular basis. And let's remember, what's the definition of a habit? Something that is acquired that we regularly do that's effectual outcome on our daily life is positive. So this morning I want to share with you just a few scriptures to show you why the habit of spending time in the Bible is important. Here's the first one. The Bible teaches us how to live. The Bible teaches us how to live. We're first going to go to 2 Timothy chapter 3 verses 16 and 17 and I'm going to share it with you in the New Century Version. This is probably not a surprise scripture to anybody that studied the Word of God before. All scripture is inspired by God and is useful for teaching, for showing people what is wrong in their lives, for correcting faults, and for teaching how to live right. Using the scriptures, the person who serves God will be capable having all that is needed to do every good work. Now you're going to notice I chose a very dynamic translation for this verse. That was not an accident. When I'm reading the Bible, when I'm studying the Bible, I am flipping back and forth between all kinds of different translations because I understand the science of how things are translated and I want to get the fullest reading because let's be honest, who wrote the book of 2 Timothy? Anybody remember? Micah? It was written by God so it was an unfair choice, right? Which human penned the book of 2 Timothy? Paul, that's right. Did Paul write in English? No. English as a language did not exist. When the Apostle Paul wrote this letter to Timothy. So we're reading a translation of Paul's writing. It is okay to read a couple of different Bibles to get the full picture of what Paul was sharing in the Greek because I'm reading it in English. All scripture, first thing I need to understand, and my son is totally correct, the Holy Spirit is the divine author of scripture and then the Holy Spirit inspired or worked through certain human authors. This one has to be the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the divine author of scripture. I'm going to talk about this first one because I'm going to talk about the time when the Apostle Paul is the mentor, he's being trained to do ministry under the Apostle Paul, when he says all scripture is inspired by God. He is directly referring to the entire Old Testament. At the time that 2 Timothy was written, all of our New Testament wasn't written yet. So we've got to remember that the word of God in our faith, it was born on the pages of human history. Jesus was born, give or take, about 4 BC. died on the cross, 30 AD, rose, ascended, the church is born, we start planting churches. Paul's letters are some of the first to be written in all of Christendom. So this all scripture directly applies to the entire Old Testament. But because it's the Holy Spirit who's inspiring Paul to write this very verse, and it is also the Holy Spirit that inspired all the rest of the New Testament, implication is the whole Bible. You see what I'm saying? Could I claim that Paul knew in advance that St. John was going to write the book of Revelation? Right, we learned that after it happened. When Paul was writing 2 Timothy, John hasn't penned Revelation yet. Now some people will say, well look, then that means Revelation's not inspired. I don't think so. Because of the principle, Scripture interprets Scripture. So this all scripture, this applies to the entire Old Testament and our New Testament today. That means your whole Bible. That's what that means. You can take this, your whole Bible is inspired by God. Now in the Greek, this word inspired does not mean inspired in the way we use it when we talk about movies. A story was just so moving and exciting that we made it into a lifetime movie. This word inspired literally means God breathed. So if you're reading a more literal translation like the ESV, and possibly even the NKJV, it's going to say all scripture is God breathed or breathed by God. It literally means spoken by God in the same way that in the first chapter of Genesis, God said, let there be light and there was light. It is literally spoken by God and is useful. So the first thing I have to ask you this morning is if Scripture calls itself useful, what do you use it for in your life? And you don't have to elbow anybody. You don't have to poke anybody. But just think over the last seven to ten days of your life, what have you used Scripture for? How is it useful in your life? Because Paul is describing Scripture as if it is a tool, not just a piece of jewelry. It's not just a book that decorates your nightstand or your coffee table at home. It's a tool. And if it's a tool, then I mean, it suggests that the tool is useful for something, that we do something with it. So it's useful for, and now we're going to get a list here. So keep in mind this is the Apostle Paul telling us what we're supposed to use Scripture for. The first is for teaching. That one, that word hasn't changed. When he means teaching, he means learn stuff. That's what he means. Just like we teach today. We have teachers who teach people today. The word teaching means learn stuff you done did not know. So all Scripture is inspired by God and is useful to learn stuff you did not know. Four, showing people what is wrong in their lives. Now that's one of the reasons I like the NCV's version of this particular verse. The word of God is supposed to be the ruler by which you measure your lifestyle. Has anyone ever heard the Bible being referred to as the canon? Anybody ever heard that term, right? Few people have heard the word. It's not canon like on a pirate ship, okay? So the first thing I need to understand, it's not like our canons. No, the word canon, c-a-n-o-n, in English comes from the Greek word, canon. K-a-n-o-n if you transliterate it. And it literally means measuring stick. That's literally what it means. The Bible is supposed to be the yardstick, the ruler, the tape measure, the odometer. Pick your analogy that you wish. The Bible is supposed to be the tool that you measure your lifestyle according to. If I want to know how long my shoe is from front to back, I would get a ruler or a tape measure. If I want to measure my son's feet, I would get a yardstick. Why? Because what's on the ruler? You know what's on a ruler? It's a preset state of measurement that we all agree is true. We all agree is right. You know, if you get out a tape measure, how many people have a tape measure at home? Just show of hands, right? Okay, almost everybody. How many people have ever gotten their tape measure out and measured the tape measure to see if the tape measure is right? Well, okay. Thank you for some honest people. Praise Jesus for the three of y'all that thought about it. Most people pull out the tape measure and automatically assume it's correct. Why do you not do the same for the Bible? If the Bible is our tape measure, if the Bible is our ruler for life, why do we open it and then try to decide whether it's right or wrong versus the tape measure? Just pull it out. That's 26 and a half inches. Didn't stop to check to see if the inches were correct. That's what Paul is saying here. Not only is it useful for teach learning stuff you did not know useful for teaching us what is wrong in their lives. What am I doing now? Also, when I'm learning what is wrong, don't you know I'm also learning what is right, right? I'm learning the right way to live for correcting faults. Good morning. Welcome to church. My name is Dr. Bill. I'd like you to know that you have faults today. Every one of us does. If you're here, thank you. If you're here this morning and you believe that you do not have any faults, please on your connection card today tell me. I would like to talk with you about my pride. All of us have them. All of us have faults. And you know what? It's okay to be human in church. Did you know that? Did you know it's okay to go to the doctor and tell them the truth about your health? The same way it's okay to come to church and tell me the truth about your spiritual health. Wow. Pastor, I didn't know I was allowed to not be perfect when I came to church. When I was growing up and my family would have a fight, right? We'd be... I mean, and now please, I'm about to tell a story. No one elbow your husband or wife or your child if you're sitting next to them. We would be fighting like cats and dogs. When I was in my young teenage years, I was rebellious as mess. I did not like following rules. I was always smarter than my parents, every typical 13-year-old. I know. I was more so, but every typical 13-year-old. And we would be... My dad at the time, he owned a dark hunter green Ford Explorer. And that's what we would ride to church in every Sunday. And I would get in the back seat of the Ford Explorer and we would be fighting like cats and dogs, me and my mom and dad. And then magically, as if by some miracle of God, when the front tires of my daddy's truck hit the church parking lot... We were the holiest family at our Baptist church. I'm sure I'm the only person who's ever had that experience. Absolutely. Right? Welcome to Catalyst. Y'all are the perfect church on the planet. If you're watching this video, welcome to God's perfect church. He loves everyone here. We all have faults. The idea that you can come to church and think that we don't know you have faults is just arrogant. That's what the Bible's here for. It's here to correct our faults and for teaching us how to live right. Notice there's the reverse. You can't learn what is wrong without a standard of what is right. You can't learn what is evil without a standard of what is good. You can't learn what is bad without knowing first what is good. So the Word of God is here to teach us things we do not know, show us where we're wrong in our lives, correct those faults, and teach us to live right. So again, let me ask you a question. If the Bible's a tool, how do you use it? Do you use it to stop the door? Do you use it to hold down the tank on the back of the toilet and make sure it doesn't fly away? Do you use it as a decorative piece in your living room? Or do you use it as a sharpening stone to sharpen your character? Right? In my last church, they had a trail life troop, and I would have to teach the boys how to appropriately sharpen knives and hatchets and all sorts of outdoor stuff. You know what? When you sharpen something, it's kind of a gritty, violent process. It scrapes and it's uncomfortable, and sometimes there's sparks and sometimes there's heat. But what happens here? Using the scriptures, the person who serves God will be capable, having all that is needed for every good work. The Bible doesn't benefit you if you don't use it as instructed. That's like getting a brand new toy on Christmas that says, batteries not included, and then complaining when it doesn't work right, because you didn't use it right. That's why grandparents always buy batteries to go with presents, right? Because you know, all of you are smiling, you've been there. You have a five-year-old who opens a present and they're super excited about it, and they're like, mommy, can we unwrap it? And we're like, yes, but grandma forgot to send batteries. Praise God, we have a junk drawer. If you do not use the Bible as instructed, you don't get out of it what you're supposed to. All right, so let's move on to the next thing we need to understand about the Bible. The Bible speaks to our hearts. The Bible speaks to our hearts. Let's move over to Hebrews, chapter 4, verse 12. This is the English Standard Version. For the Word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. Another very powerful verse to tell us the exactness about the Word of God. So, the Word of God is living and active. How do I know that? Because the Spirit that wrote the pages of Scripture is a living and active Holy Spirit. He's not a passive and dead Holy Spirit. The words of Scripture are as powerful today as the day they were penned. Let me say that again just so you hear it right. The words of Scripture are as powerful today as they were the day that they were first penned by the first human author under the direction of the Holy Spirit. Why? Because the Holy Spirit is God and God is all-powerful. He never runs out of power. He's the divine energizer. He never runs out of juice. Therefore, the Holy Spirit never runs out of juice. Therefore, the Word of God, which is inspired by the Spirit, never runs out of juice. You get that? And yet we have that power source sitting right at home and sometimes we forget to interact with it. It is sharper than any two-edged sword. Now, why does he use this? Well, the writer of Hebrews lives in first century Rome. You know what the primary Roman weapon was that they carried? A two-edged cutlass. It was a shorter sword. It wasn't long like the three musketeers. They had the longer, thinner, rapier. It wasn't a light saber. Roman said, I'm going to cut this. Roman centurions carried a small double-bladed sword. You know why it was double-bladed? Because they didn't have a good metallurgy that we have today. And after about three or four whacks, one side became completely dull. And you're basically beating people like a club. So you'd spin it around in your hand. And now I've got another sharp edge to keep doing battle with. So the writer of Hebrews is intimately familiar with the wartime of his day. Inasmuch as if somebody were to write an analogy today, they could talk about tanks or about firearms or about nuclear weapons. Why? Because those are things that aren't common knowledge. For him, he's saying, listen, the word of God is sharper than any two-edged sword. It will able to pierce the division of soul and spirit of joint and marrow. Now, he's making an alliteration here. Anytime you see a Hebrew author say something twice, that's called a doublet. Dou-u-b-l-e-t. I'm bad at spelling, but you can ask my wife later. She knows how to spell it. Doublet. And what it means is the Hebrew author is bringing special emphasis to something. And he's saying it poetically in two different ways. Soul and spirit, joint and marrow. Do you notice how those two ways automatically relate to the two different constitutions within humans? Soul and spirit is your spirit side. Joints and marrow is your flesh side. What is he saying? The Holy Spirit's inspired word of God is so sharp that it can bring division between the good and the bad, the right and the wrong on both sides of your human constitution. If there's a problem on the spiritual side of your life, the word of God has a solution. If there's a problem in the physical side of your life, the word of God has a solution. There is no part of you as a human that cannot benefit from the word of God. That's what he's saying. That's what he's saying. And then finally he says this. All the way down to discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. Paul, if he is the writer of Hebrews. And I will say if because there is a debate. Paul may be the author of Hebrews. He may be not. One of the reasons I would argue for Paul here is this last part. Not only is he theologically making the distinction between the spiritual side of man and the human side of man, he's also getting to the willful or the volitional side of man, which is something very unique that God gave humanity when he created us. He created us with a will. He created us with the ability to say, no daddy, I don't want to do that. Right? Do the grass get the option not to be grass? No. Do palm trees get the option not to be palm trees? No. Do strawberries? No. Do humans get the option to be disobedient to our nature? Yes. We totally do. And what I love about this, if this is Paul, and he read wise, or another first century writer was just way off point, the word God can divide down to our very intangible will, our desire to obey or to disobey. That's a powerful distinction. Because there are times, and I'll be honest, my parents are going to watch this certain later, so they'll come and let you know, but I'll tell you the truth. I was an incredibly disobedient child. In about four hours, spoke for the giant eight men coming from South Florida together. I was an incredibly disobedient child. I was the child that you... You were like, Bill, sit in that chair. No. Sit down. Okay, fine. But I'm standing up on the inside. Right? That is right here. That is all me all day. You could never force me to give up my will. You might be able to force my external obedience, but I would never relent that you could force my internal submission. And that's why I think our modern day vernacular really needs to get these words clear. I can demand obedience from my children. That's an external action. Sit in that chair. Do not do that thing. But as a parent, you can never demand submission. That has to be granted from the lower to the greater. In the same way, the Word of God can tell you what's right. But you could read that Bible verse 50 times, and if you want to disobey, your human will still gets the option to do it. God can, in the Old Testament, I'll tell you what, Old Testament God gave a lot of reasons to be obedient. And somehow people still chose to be unsubmissive. Like, I don't get that. But you and I have the same opportunity today. You and I have the same opportunity to choose to submit to the will of God. To choose when the Word discerns the thoughts and intentions of my heart and says, Bill, that's not good for you. You should put it down. And I say, but God, it's chocolate coated. I really, really want it. Chocolate, thank you. My son just ruined my sermon right there. Sin is like chocolate covered poison. He knew exactly where I was going. Because I tell him that all the time. Sin is like chocolate covered arsenic. Looks great on the outside. The minute you bite into it, it brings death in your life that you did not expect. Because it looks yummy on the outside. Chocolate covered poison all day. But when the Word of God can discern the thoughts of my heart and the Holy Spirit says, Bill, I know that thing is covered in chocolate and it looks really delicious. But when you bite into it, it's going to bring death to your marriage. It's going to bring death to your relationship with your children. It's going to bring death to your relationship at work. It's going to bring death to your relationship with your church. Is that instantaneous moment of chocolate on your lips worth the death that it will bring? Now we go all the way back to Eden. What was Eve's big temptation? It was good on the eyes. It looked good. It was good for food. Good for eating. But God, it tastes so good. That's why the Word of God has to divide all the way down to that willful part of you. Because we will willingly eat the poison because we want the chocolate. Third thing I need to understand about the Bible. The Bible is the only book that can grow your faith. And I'll be honest, this one hurts a little bit for me because I love books. But I need to tell you the truth. The Bible is the only book that can grow your faith. Romans chapter 10 verse 17 in the New King James. So then faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. I love books. I love learning things. That's why I'm finishing up going to school. My wife and I were just resorting our family books at home. And I had two boxes of books that went downstairs to my office because they're the books I need to do my schoolwork. I love books. But I can tell you assuredly, no matter how many books I read, there is no book that stirs the Spirit of God within me the way the Word of God does. You know why? Because the Spirit of God that wrote the Word of God is the same Spirit of God that lives within me as a Christian. The Spirit of God that wrote the apologetics books that I really like, whether it's William Lane Craig or Dr. Geisler or Dr. Taylor who was with us on Easter, the Holy Spirit may have lived within those men and indwelt those men, but he did not inspire their books the way the Holy Spirit inspired the Word of God. There is no book that can transform your spiritual health the way the Bible can. That does not mean that all the rest of the books in humanity are bad. You can ask my wife, I have a little bit of a book buying problem right now. Pretty much every single week a new Amazon package is showing up. And it's another book that I need on something that I need on something. But none of those books, none of those books transform my relationship with Jesus the way the Word of God does. Why? Because faith comes by hearing. Now hearing can be also internalizing a good sermon. Those are great. But when sermons are not based on the Word of God, they're not sermons. They're Ted Talks. Okay? So let's just be super honest. When we come to church we should hear the Word of God taught, not the Word of man. That's just like super big point for me. Minor soapbox. I will step back and continue my sermon now. So then faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. There is no other book that will transform you. There is no other book that's the right measurement tool. Right? What does the Word of God say? That in the last days people will look, herds and groups of people will look for those to teach what they want to hear. You know what you want to hear? You want to pull out a tape measure that tells you you're exactly perfect and doesn't need to change. And how many people go looking for that tape measure? How many people go looking for the tape measure that's already Jim Boussé sized? Right? Woop, woop. Jim's perfect. Now here's the problem. Everybody who's not Jim is not perfect. So then we need another tape measure. We need a Daniel sized tape measure. We need a Gary sized tape measure. We need a George sized tape measure. And then all of a sudden nobody knows which one's right. Because everyone has decided that I am the measuring tool. I am the God of my own perfection. The rest of you are welcome. When we measure to the Word of God and we all agree there is a single correct tape measure, that is where our faith is grown by our hearing or reading of the Word of God because it is the only book that can do so. Next thing I need you to understand about the Bible. The Bible will always be true. The Bible will always be true. And here I want to defend the actual value of scripture. Look at Matthew chapter 24 verse 35. This is in the New International Version. Heaven and earth will pass away but my words will never pass away. Not only is the Word of God living inactive. Not only is the Word of God the only canon for your lifestyle, the only tape measure. The Word of God is also inspired by the Spirit of God. And God is an eternal all-powerful omniscient being. That's why the Word of God never passes away. When somebody holds up their actual physical Bible and says this Bible will never pass away. What they're intending to mean is the truth of the Word of God not the actual book. And we need to make a distinction between the Bibles that we buy at a bookstore or that you might order on Amazon. Now they contain the Word of God but the book itself is not what the promise is based on. The book contains the Spirit-inspired Word of God. Because if that was the case and it was just your specific Bible. Then what about the Bibles that are written in Spanish? What about the Bibles written in Portuguese? What about audio Bibles? No, it's the Word of God. The Spirit-inspired truth that exists within the pages of the Word of God will never pass away. Why? Because they're inspired by the all-powerful eternal completely omniscient, fully omnipresent and omnibenevolent God who wrote them. And that's why it's super important to understand the characteristics of God. This is how what we know about God influences the way we live. If I truly believe that God is eternal, that means he never goes away. If I truly believe that God is all-powerful, then he never runs out. Then he never gets tired. He never runs out of energy. If I truly believe that God is omnibenevolent or all-loving, then all of his words are for my benefit. That doesn't mean for my comfort. And I really need to say that. If you've ever read the Word of God and gotten uncomfortable, it's because you need to change. And it's trying to lead you to a point where you will get rid of something in your life. If you've never had that experience, bro, spend some time in the Word. It's the best sharpening stone you'll ever find. And all of a sudden you'll be reading and you just start weeping or you get like really angry or you get really shy. You're like, wow, the Holy Spirit who is living in you is illuminating the Holy Spirit who wrote the book. And it becomes a two-way street. That's why sometimes when I read the Old Testament, I feel bad sometimes for the characters who existed in the Old Testament times. Because they didn't get the indwelling of the Spirit like you and I did. You know, I think about Rahab in the story of Joshua, the amount of faith it took to betray her entire town because she said the Lord has given you this land. She didn't have the Holy Spirit. All she had was the witness of the Exodus. She said, that God's in charge, not whatever that God claims to be. The amount of faith it must have taken. Whereas you and I today, when we come to Christ, we are indwelt by the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit that lives in you is the same Holy Spirit who inspired the pages of the very Bible that you own. That's where this symbiotic relationship comes from. Here's the final thing I want you to understand about the Word of God. The Bible is the focus of the church. Now we're going to go back. We're going to end at 1 Timothy, chapter 4, 11 and 12. Chapter 4, 11 through 13. This is the New Living Translation. Teach these things and insist that everyone learn them. Love the NLT on this verse. Teach these things and insist that everyone learn them. Now anybody who loves youth ministry, you're going to recognize this next verse. Don't let anyone think less of you because you are young. Be an example to all believers in what you say, in the way you live, in your love, in your faith, in your purity. Until I get there, has Jesus come back yet? Not according to my eschatology because I won't be here. I'm a pre-trib rapture guy, so we'll get to that one later. But when I get there, focus on the reading of the scripture to the church. Encourage the believers and teach them. Now when I was a youth pastor, I always started here. Don't let anyone look down on you because you are young. And then when I learned a little bit more, I widened my gaze and realized that this verse is contingent here. Teach these things and insist that everyone learn them. Why? Because Timothy was a young man. In first century culture, you were a young man until you turned 40. Just so you can put it in context. Timothy is any age under 40. Once you became 40 years old, you were then eligible to be considered an elder in your society. At 40, you became a respected elder of your community, a respected adult whose opinion had validity. But see, Timothy is being trained by the apostle Paul. Paul is over the 40-year-old line. Timothy is under the 40-year-old line. So why does Paul have to tell them, don't let anyone think less of you? Because there were people thinking less of him. That's why he had to say it, right? Remember, this is a letter, we're only reading half the conversation. Why does Paul have to tell Timothy, don't let anybody look down on you? Because people were. Because he wasn't considered old enough to be good at what he was good at. He wasn't considered old enough to be called to serve God in the way his life was called. But notice here, teach these things and insist that everyone learn them. If this is, I just understand this. If this is Paul teaching this sentence right here, who is Paul talking to? Timothy. Who is Timothy supposed to be teaching? The church. Teach these things. What are these things? Everything that Paul has given to Timothy, Timothy is responsible to teach. And by the way, Tim, while you're laying it down, while you're dropping it like it's hot, insist that everyone learn them. The idea that you can come to church and not learn is anti-biblical. It just is. The idea that we make churches and people come to church, but they're not challenged, they're not shown what the word of God says, they're just like a poem and then like a life coaching and a TED talk. No, because I'll be honest, there's nothing that I can say to you that's going to change your eternal destiny or benefit your soul. If I can try to illuminate what God says, that will change your eternal destiny, that will illuminate your soul. But my fun little story about two brothers in a tree, that's just a parable. That was for me, that wasn't for him. This is the author that changes lives. That's why I think it's so important for the text of scripture to be on the screen while a biblical communicator is communicating. Because really, this is what changes your life, I'm just the sideshow. I'm trying to help us learn it, but this is what changes lives. Don't let anyone think less of you because you are young, I've had that a lot. And then look, be an example to believers in what you say, in the way you live your life, your faith. This is your lifestyle testimony right here. Now here's what's cool about this verse. This verse is also an instruction to every single Christian in the church. Why? Why? Because if I go to the end of the Gospel of Matthew, and I look at what we commonly call the Great Commission, what does it say? Go into all the world and make disciples, and teach, right? Teach the Gospel, teach them all I have commanded you, teach them to obey all I have commanded you, and I will be with you to the end of the age. That instruction was given to all of us, individually. Kim, go into your world, make disciples, baptize, teach all I have commanded you, and I will be with you. George, go to your world, and make disciples, baptize, teach them to obey all I have commanded, and I will be with you. And I could go on and on, Bob do that, and Pete go do that, and Dottie go do that, and Melanie go do that, Catherine go do that. Every one of us has a responsibility to teach these things and insist that everyone learn them. It's a lot more popular for me to just tell you how much God loves you, and how much he wants you to be with him, and it's all up to you, and it's totally your choice. No, it's really not. We were given a direct instruction, teach the Word of God so that people will learn, and I would argue the syntax, the subtext here, is teach them to obey. It doesn't do any good to learn a rule, but then go, oh yeah, that's a rule, I'm going to go this way. The next time you get pulled over by a police officer at a traffic stop, you can admit to them, yeah, I totally knew the speed limit, I just didn't think it applied to me. I'm fairly certain they're going to have a disagreement of opinion with you on what applies to you and what doesn't. The Word of God is the same way. The Word of God is your Sunday morning traffic stop. Congratulations. We need to be a people who obey the Word of God habitually. Remember, what's a habit? An acquired behavior. That means maybe there are parts of your life that don't obey the Word of God right now. It's okay, you can change. An acquired behavior regularly followed. Well, I don't do it all the time, but I'm going to do it better tomorrow than I did today, until it becomes involuntary. Eventually, your life changes to be biblical. That's the point of the health habit of spending time in the Bible. So, Dino, do me a favor, just take me back to the title screen. I don't want them to see all the questions before I read them. But here's a couple questions that I want to ask you. First is this. How many times in the last seven days not at church have you read the Bible? In the last two weeks. Just answer to yourself, what's my habit look like? What's my habit look like? How many times in the last 14 days have you opened the Bible? Or, in my case, I like the audio Bible, I like to listen to it. How many times outside of church have you interfaced with the Word of God? Number two. How many times not in church have you studied the Bible? Now, there is a difference between reading the Bible and studying the Bible. Those of you who came to the How to Study Your Bible class, I gave you a super cool method. We're going to get another one of those on the books next month. So, I want you to come, I want you to learn an easy at home pen and paper method you can use to study the Bible, not just read it. Those are two different verbs. So, how many times not in church have you studied the Bible? Number three. How often do you think about scripture on a regular day? Just on your mind. Just how often do you think about the yardstick of life? Huh. I wonder what the Bible says about that. How often do you consult the Bible to make a decision for you or for your family? And how often do you discuss what scripture teaches at home with your family? How often does what the Bible says come up in home conversations? I will say that this is one that comes up an awful lot in our house. My children come up with like, doctorate level Bible questions. Literally, a few weeks ago, Micah asked me a question. I had to call my faculty advisor for my master's degree because I couldn't answer his question. So, my kids, now you could argue, well, you're a pastor, obviously you're welcome to have questions. Well, you should be welcome to have questions too. Because here's the great thing. Let's say you're at home and you're allowing your children to ask questions about the Bible and you don't know the answer. Then all of you get the benefit of learning it together. Many times I find Christians are afraid of questions because they think they have to know the answer before the question is asked. When people come up to me and they find out I'm a pastor, like my neighbors this past week, we moved into a new house. My neighbors found out that I work at a church and I'm a pastor. And of course, what's the very first thing? Okay, so I got this question. It happens all the time. They assume I'm a pastor. Obviously, I've memorized all 66 books of scripture. And I know every single bit of systematic theology and church history all on instant recall. Every time somebody says, pastor, can I ask you a question, my very first response, some of you have probably heard it, as long as I don't know is an acceptable answer. I can't know that I'm going to know every single question before it's asked. The more time you spend in God's word, and amazingly, the more answers to those questions that you will know. So here's what I want to do. We've got several big things coming up at the end of service. Do me a favor, take out your cell phone or grab the Kinect card that's in the chair right in front of you. This is your chance to participate with me in discussing this habit of your spiritual health. So if you have your phones and you happen to be here in service, you can go ahead and scan the QR code that's right here. Or you can scan the one that is on the piece of paper, the little handout that the ushers gave you. Please do me a favor, scan that and pull up your Kinect card. I need to ask you a very important question. And it's the same question I ask week after week after week. What's your next step today? Hopefully, I've done a fairly good job of inspiring you to spend time with the word of God. Hopefully, maybe I've taught you something that you didn't know or shown you a perspective of the word of God that you didn't know. But what's your next step going to be today? On the bottom of your Kinect card, you can see it asks for your name and your email address. It asks you to take a next step. Maybe you're listening to this sermon, you realize I don't have a relationship with Jesus. Then guess what? That's our first step today. Your first step is to say, I need to have a conversation about becoming a Christian. That's a great first step. Let me know that. Just check that box. That's going to go right to my email and I'm going to contact you this afternoon. And we'll set up a time and appointment to talk about your relationship with Jesus. Maybe you need to get baptized. You became a Christian, but you didn't take that next step of obeying the word of God and getting baptized. Maybe you did, and you spent your time wandering in the wilderness, and you're like, pastor, is it okay to get baptized again? It is totally okay. If you are making a spiritual commitment that says, Lord, I'm rededicating my life to you, then you can totally choose to get rebaptized. Maybe you need to live by the Spirit. Your turn to listen to what the Spirit says in your life instead of what your will says. Then you can see there on your card, it says, how am I going to accomplish this or how do I need help? You can put in whatever you want. That's how you let me know. It's okay to call. It's okay. You can also see I'm interested in getting an appointment, a phone appointment with Pastor Bill. You can ask for an appointment with Pastor Paul. If you have questions about our student ministry or upcoming things, try to make this card as usable for you as possible with also not having 30 million questions on it. It's not a census survey. I just want to give you all the tools you need to grow spiritually, to grow in your faith. So while you are finishing filing your Connect card, and my watch is buzzy, buzzy, buzzing, so I know people are doing it, if you're joining us online and you don't happen to be here in the room, you can go to catalyst302.com slash connect. Click on the button that says, I attended online. It will take you right to an online Connect card. Even if you are not here today, I will still respond to you. I will still come and talk to you and help you grow spiritually because that's the privilege of being a pastor. So while you're finishing your Connect cards, I'm going to ask that the ushers go ahead and come forward. We're going to collect this morning's tithes and offerings. And then I've got a couple announcements and a couple big things to celebrate. So in a moment, I'm going to pray and we are going to give our tithes and offerings to the Lord. I just want to remind you, we don't give out of compulsion. You're not giving because Catalyst is a country club and you're having to pay your membership dues. We're giving because we worship God. We're giving because we love him and we're giving back to the many blessings he has given us. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you for the privilege of having the Word of God, where there are so many countries where your Word is outlawed. Lord, I thank you that here in America we're allowed to have copies of our own, to read at our own leisure in public and to praise you. And Lord, it's because of that privilege that we worship you today. We give our tithes and offerings to you as an act of worship, not out of compulsion, not out of guilt, not to pay membership dues, but to glorify you and give you through our finances as another way to worship. We love you in Jesus' name. Amen.