Welcome to catalyst my name is bill Thank you for being a part of our worship service today whether you are here in our Wilmington campus Or you are part of our online family. Thank you for joining us in worship for participating in communion We're going to continue worshiping while we study the word this morning So I'm gonna ask those are who brought your Bibles you can turn or tap with me to the book of Haggai the book of Haggai It's at the back of the Old Testament if you have the catalyst app you can just launch it and there's a Bible right there At the bottom I'm going to skip the big Bible story today because we already had communion pastor Tyler did a fantastic job But just to give you the setting so we know where we're at the book of Haggai takes place After the Babylonian exile so here is the setting that we need to put our brains into this morning After the Babylonian exile God's people return to their promised land to rebuild But they prioritize themselves over God I also need to apologize and make a correction Somebody somebody called me on making a mistake in my sermon last week And I appreciate that somebody's listening careful enough to catch it. I named the king who released the the Exile ease as Darius no Darius is in this book It is King Cyrus the great who ended the exile because he was the Persian king who defeated Babylon So I apologize for getting those names confusered But it is Cyrus the great who ended the Babylonian exile and there were three separate Returns coming to the land the book of Haggai takes place towards the end of that So we're gonna pick up our reading this morning in Haggai chapter 1 the very last half of the very last verse and Then we'll read all of chapter 2 so I'm gonna start reading in Haggai chapter 1 verse 15 B Which is like the back half of verse 1 15 and then we're gonna read all of chapter 2 and then we're gonna come back And we're gonna go through it so here. We go Haggai starting in 115 B in The second year of King Darius on the 21st day of the seventh month The word of the Lord came through the prophet Haggai Speak to Zerubbabel son of she altio governor of Judah to Joshua son of Jossadac the high priest and to the remnant of the people ask them Who of you is left who saw this house in its former glory How does it look to you now? Does it not seem to you like nothing now be strong? Zerubbabel declares the Lord be strong Joshua son of Jossadac the high priest be strong all the people of the land declares the Lord and work For I am with you declares the Lord Almighty This is what I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt and my spirit remains among you Do not fear this is what the Lord Almighty says in a little while I will once more shake the heavens and the earth the sea and the dry land I will shake all the nations and what is desired by all nations will come And I will fill this house with glory Says the Lord Almighty The silver is mine and the glow and the gold is mine declares the Lord Almighty The glory of this present house will be greater than the glory of the former house Says the Lord Almighty and in this place. I will grant peace Declares the Lord Almighty on the 24th day of the ninth month in the second year of King Darius The word of the Lord came to the prophet Haggai. This is what the Lord Almighty says ask the priests What the law says if someone carries consecrated meat in the fold of their garment and that fold touches some bread or stew Some wine olive oil or other foods. Does it become consecrated? The priests answered no Then Haggai said if a person defiled by contact with a dead body touches one of these things Does it become defiled? Yes, the priests replied it becomes defiled Then Haggai said so it is with this people and nation and this nation in my sight declares the Lord Whatever they do and whatever they offer There is defiled now give careful thought To give careful thought to this from this day on Consider how things were before one stone was laid on another in the Lord's temple When anyone came to a heap of 20 measures there were only 10 When anyone when anyone went to a wine vat to draw 50 measures there were only 20 I Struck all the work of your hands with blight mildew and hail Yet you did not return to me declares the Lord From this day on from this 24th day of the ninth month give careful thought To the day when the foundation of the Lord's temple was laid Give careful thought is there yet any seed left in the barn? Until now the vine and the fig tree the pomegranate and the olive tree have not borne fruit From this day on I will bless you The word of the Lord came to Haggai a second time on the 24th day of the month Tells the rubable governor of Judah that I am going to shake the heavens and the earth I will overturn royal thrones and shatter the power of the foreign kingdoms I will overthrow chariots and their drivers horses and their riders will fall each by the sword of his brother On that day declares the Lord Almighty I will take you my servants the rubable son of she altio declares the Lord and I will make you like my signet ring for I have chosen you declares the Lord Almighty so Let's rewind back There we have to remember the setting and and I will say this how many people just by show of hands and if you're if You're watching online. You can just click the raise your hand button in the chat How many of you have ever heard someone quote the verse the glory of The latter house will be greater than the glory of the former house anybody heard that those right there Those are all the Pentecostals just you know like everything everybody's anybody in a Pentecostal church has 100% heard that quote I'm gonna go ahead and put you on warning now. You've probably heard it misused It is one of the most famous quotes from the Old Testament and often is misused So in order to make sure that we are first interpreting what scripture says in its time period Before we apply it to our own time period. Let's just review what has happened God's people went into exile under which foreign kingdom which kingdom carried them away Babylon that's right. Then God caused Babylon to fall to Persia and King Cyrus the great looking at you You know who called me out King Cyrus the great allows people to come home. There are three different returns They're supposed to rebuild the temple and yet they rebuild their own homes that was chapter one, right? We looked at them prioritizing themselves and their pleasure their creature comforts over the house of God So now we get to 15 be in the second year of King Darius. Remember, that's how ancient people kept time They kept time by who was in charge. It also illustrates that the the Jewish people are not free John They're not living under their own authority. They are not a free kingdom again They are under Persian rule kind of as a seraph kingdom They're allowed a certain amount of autonomy But they are 100 percent still paying their honorariums and their taxes to the Persian dynasty Verse 1 of chapter 2 on the 21st day of the seventh month the word of the Lord came through the prophet Haggai There's a lot of number of day number of month So I tried my best to translate these into our calendar so we can track them So if you'll allow me a little bit of change here verse 1 can read on October 17th of 20 BC The word of the Lord came through the does that make it a lot easier for you. So on October 17th 520 BC that is when the prophet Haggai heard and delivered this word from the Lord October 17th 520 BC Also notice the word Lord is in capital letters. What does that mean? That's this the covenant name for God whenever you see L Or D all in caps that's the scriptural translators letting us know this is Yahweh the private covenant name for God Which means all of this conversation just like last week takes place within covenant relationship God with his chosen people in his given land If you think back to the Abrahamic Covenant, it was a forever promise This land will belong to you and your descendants as long as you're obedient and they weren't so they got a timeout now They get to come home from timeout So then we get to verse 2 speak to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel governor of Judah just like last week That is the civil authority in the land and also to Joshua son of Jossadak the high priest The remnant of the people so again the prophet the man of God is speaking to the civil leader Of the people of God and the spiritual leader of the people of God Why because ultimately God's people were supposed to be a theocracy? He is in charge and we all submit to him now We didn't do the big Bible story But most of you know in the middle of the Old Testament They reject God's kingship and they go for a human king and pop quiz first human king of the United Monarchy of Israel was Saul that's right. I'm not gonna do the rest but good job. So God is intended himself To be the civil and spiritual leader. So as the ultimate authority over God's people He is addressing Zerubbabel. That's the civil and he is also addressing Josset Joshua son of Jossadak the high priest and then he asks the question that gets us to verse 3 Who of you is left? Who saw this house in its former glory? Let's stop right there. Who is you as less who so so We got to talk about the temple a little bit, let's make sure all of our temple theology and chronology is right, so There are several temples in scripture and we need to make sure we're talking about the right one So when God's people come out of Exodus, they have the tabernacle, right? That's like God's RV It moves around with his people then when they move into the land Solomon builds the first actual temple we call that one Solomon's temple so pop quiz who built Solomon's temple See you guys are on it man Bible scholars today. So Solomon's temple is the first temple When the exile happens they come in and they destroy the temple in Jerusalem. I Think that was 722 BC like that numbers in my brain for some reason Somebody will correct me if I got that one wrong, but I think it was 722 BC the temp Solomon's temple is destroyed everybody goes away to exile. They're in exile for 70 years They start coming home chapter 1 they're supposed to rebuild the temple, but they don't now we're to chapter 2 They're gonna start rebuilding the temple. This is called the second temple So and this is anybody ever heard the term second temple period the second temple period starting now when they're rebuilding Solomon's temple so when verse 3 you say who of you is left who saw this house in its former glory What is Haggai referring to Haggai is referring to the rubble? That was Solomon's temple that they're actively trying to rebuild right? Let's not over spiritualize it This is God's people in God's land talking about physically actual God's temple and his house So verse 3 who of you is left who saw this house in its former glory? He is talking about Solomon's temple still having been in ruin Because the second temple construction project is starting right now those of you who like your dates this question likely happened 66 years after the Babylonian exile so Who there are likely few Jews who remain who remember the state of the temple and see and I was wrong the temple its destruction Was 586 BC and this conversation is happening in 520 BC and all of you who are super good at math I think that 86 minus 20 is 66 So that's what happened the temples destroyed in 586 this word from the Lord comes in 520 That was 66 years ago So it's very likely that there are people who had I is speaking to who remember the beauty and the glory of Solomon's temple And so how guys like yo, this is a new international bill version. Y'all remember what it looked like right how it looked now. I Mean, that's that's the modern translation of what had guys trying to say here And he says does it not seem like nothing in English that just sounds like a throwaway phrase, but this was this was a very heartfelt This is literally the dwelling place of God amongst his people if remember when Solomon built the temple the shekinah glory fell and God's presence was so thick in the room that the priests couldn't even stand to minister They're all falling out on the floor because God's presence so powerful that everybody's got to get up in anti-inflammatory and go back to work like there it is If you look and just those you like your cross references if you look in Ezra chapter 3 Specifically verses 10 through 13. You will see that the priests and the Levites wept aloud When they saw the foundations of Solomon's temple They wept aloud because they were so saddened This is hard for us to explain because we've grown up in the area of the New Testament Church Where we are the temple of God where we are the temple of the Holy Spirit But you have to put yourself back in this time frame The house of God is a specific place It's a single house in Jerusalem in Judea and when a foreign pagan nation came in and wrecked God's house Now they can't have their sacrifices. They can't worship. They can't be forgiven. They can't do any of those things So this is a huge emotional blow to God's people So when he says who of you who are left who remember what it looked like, right? How do you feel about it now? Then he gets to verse 4 Now be strong and notice he addresses three parties first be strong Zerubbabel Second be strong Joshua third be strong everybody Right, there's that big theological term everybody in the middle for be strong all you people of the land Anybody notice that sounds an awful lot like Joshua Be strong and courageous right that be strong and in Joshua be strong and courageous is The strength to obey be strong Remember chapter 1 God already talked about the fact that I have supernaturally frustrated your work because you didn't put me first Here now God says be strong and don't forget the end of that sentence and Work be strong and Work this is not just an Emotional attaboy to the people of Israel from God their creator their covenant God This is no I need you to be strong and work This is God giving his people the gear up and get it done speech Gear up and get it done. God could have let me just ask you this is God powerful enough that he could have Supernaturally rebuilt his own house Yeah Absolutely. I think if God can literally speak creation into existence in six days. He could given his power Chose to rebuild the temple supernaturally, but he doesn't do that instead he calls his people To his service to do the work of rebuilding the temple I would be remiss as a Bible expositor if I didn't point out the fact that God's work is often done by the hands of his servants Sometimes people like oh god. I just I need you to step in I need you to step in I need you to step in and we get distracted by thinking that the only way that God can Step in is something supernatural when the reality is much of God's work is done by the hands of his people and this instance is no different But notice that's not where the verse ends. He says be strong and work For I am with you This is the reversal of God's position from chapter 1 in chapter 1 he's saying listen I'm with you But I am supernaturally frustrating the work of your hands because you're not putting me first now they have repented changed their ways They are putting him first so now God says I am with you verse 5 This is what I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt. I Need you to see here, and I had a really cool conversation with a catalyst member this week about the difference between Corporate relationship with God and individual relationship with God we live in a highly individualistic society, right? So when we relate to Jesus we relate to him one-on-one Jesus is my personal Savior right we we think of our relationship with God in terms of Individuality, but the reality is we are individuals within a corporate structure Paul referred to it as the body of Christ right in the Old Testament the corporate body that God Covenant it with was not individual Israelites, but the nation and Look at this where he says in verse 5. I will be with you This is what I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt or the people that Haggai is speaking to The ones who came out of Egypt know that was hundreds of years ago but God His everlasting faithfulness never tires He made a covenant with a people he made a covenant with a nation He made a covenant with the collective group that they were all a part of and God is saying I Covenanted with you all the way back then right the best example of covenant relationship that I have for you today is marriage Right, but my marriage with my wife is a one-on-one thing and yet that one-on-one thing is what creates the corporate body That is my family Right the covenant relationship between me and my wife is the foundation of My family unit the covenant relationship God made with Abram was with Abram and all of those descendants Abram to Isaac to Jacob to the twelve sons So when he says this is what I Covenanted with you God is referring to his corporate relationship with all of Israel That's why everybody went into captivity and that's why everybody came home God is dealing with him with his people on the corporate level and this is what he says I Covenanted with you when I brought you out or when you came out of Egypt and my spirit remains among you You know what I find amazing about Haggai saying this in this time period It's easy for us to believe that God's spirit is with his people in his land when they're doing the right thing But that wasn't the last 70 years of these people's lives The last 70 years of corporate Israel Was in captivity under Assyria and Babylon and Persia It's one of the reasons I do love the book of Esther quick shout out for our ladies ladies Bible studies about to Start doing a Monday night Bible study in the book Esther Esther is a fantastic book It's been argued by several Bible scholars over the last couple of centuries Because God's name is not explicitly mentioned on the pages of Esther anywhere And I think that's on purpose because God has not forgotten his people even though they're in Persian Exile and God is totally working behind the scenes of the book of Esther. So ladies check your app sign up for that Bible site It's gonna be awesome But I love the fact here in verse 5 Haggai says and my spirit remains among you. I've been with you the whole time When I was younger there was a poem right that was on a beach and there were footprints in the sand Does anybody remember that and all of a sudden you would see that and then all of a sudden somebody asked God Well, how come where were you when there's only one set of footprints? And you know If you haven't seen the footprints poem the spoiler alert the end is God was carrying you through times where you couldn't walk yourself That was God throughout the entire exile period. He never forgot his covenant relationship with his people So do not fear be strong get the work done. I am with you. My spirit remains among you verse 6 in a little while Notice that he doesn't and he'd point this out here when you say verse 6 and you see the words in a little while Theologically, this is God saying something is imminent not that something is immediate and there's a difference Imminent means you can expect it But you can't time it when something is immediate Just turn around it's coming but something that's imminent God is promising in a little while I will once more shake the heavens and the earth the sea and the dry land Seven I will shake all the nations and what is desired by all nations will come I will fill this house with my glory God is promising his people that their work is not going to be in vain Because now they are putting him first now They're doing what they were supposed to have done when they first came back now. They're finally getting it, right Now let's talk about Remember this why we have to keep context What is hag I talking about when he says this house? He's talking about the second temple Not Solomon's temple that got destroyed and it got rebuilt in the second temple If you follow all the way forward to the New Testament Anybody ever heard the name King Herod, right? He normally shows up in the Christmas story King Herod had a massive expansion project To the original second temple. That's why in the New Testament. It's called Herod's temple It's still the same second temple, but Herod added a whole big nice thing on the back one of the major things that Herod Herod added was a Garrison a soldier's quarters He added a garrison lodge for temple soldiers to be in the temple complex 24 hours a day, but he has this massive expansion of What is really the second temple but by the time you take the second temple into the New Testament Herod has this big expansion So in verse 7 when it says I will shake the nations and what is desired by all nations will come and I will fill this house with glory When was the second temple destroyed? Somebody said it 70 AD by who? By the Romans right so if the second temple is reconstructed in 520 BC and the second temple is destroyed by the Romans in 70 AD That's a very clear time frame. So how do we interpret verse 7? I will shake the nations and what is desired by all nations will come and will fill this house with Glory he is talking about the second temple built in 520 BC destroyed in 70 AD When did the glory of God visit the second temple? In the form of Jesus of Nazareth when he physically walked into the temple complex This is why it's important to keep things in context, right? It's super easy just to over spiritualize it and say oh well I think prophetically we can we could go there There is a time when the temple will be fully rebuilt to its amazing glory and Jesus as the risen Son of God and King of Kings is going to come back to earth and rule from that very city But that's not what had guys talking about in the immediacy all the people aren't depressed that their Messiah hasn't come back yet All the people are depressed because the physical building that was the symbol of God's presence In their land is in ruins So in verse 7 when it says I will fill this house with glory Haggai is prophetically speaking of the moment When the incarnate Son of God as the full deity of God himself Enters the second temple for the set for the first time see if you read all of the Bible you will you will not find The spirit of God descended in Solomon's temple, that's your shekinah glory passage those of you grew up Pentecostal You recognize that word the shekinah glory of God fell there was a cloud priest. Whoo all the whole deal, right? That all happened in Solomon's temple The spirit of God never descended on the second temple It was rebuilt they restarted the sacrificial system, but the spirit of God never descended And indwelt the way it did in Solomon's temple why because Jesus himself Walked into this temple And that is the moment that that house Was filled with the glory of God sadly It is also in the temple complex where the sanhedrin meet it is in the temple complex where they condemn Jesus to death It is in the temple complex where they chose barabbas over Christ They rejected the very glory of God that walked into the building Now a lot of times in biblical prophecy you can have something be a now and not yet I would argue there is a little bit of now and not yet here. I do think That the the final temple so let's be honest. We have Solomon's temple We have the second temple the second temple was destroyed in what year? The second temple was destroyed in what year? We have Solomon's temple we have the second temple the second temple was destroyed in what year? 70 ad Then there's a third temple There's actually four temples. Let's get to the third one When is the temple rebuilt again in the bible? Yes, sir end of days who rebuilds the temple in revelation The antichrist Go to the book of revelation the antichrist will rebuild the temple a third time He will rebuild the temple again and for three and a half years There will be peace with israel and then at the back half of the seven-year tribulation everything gets crazy It goes nuts But the antichrist will rebuild the temple and that's the third temple And then there's a fourth temple And that is the one at the end of revelation where jesus himself the holy city will descend from heaven to earth Right, so there's really four temples Five if you count us as the spiritual temple, but i'm talking about the actual physical one Solomon built one second temple expanded by harod destroyed by the romans third one built by the antichrist and in fourth one built by god Right, so there's four temples here. So is it possible? That hagai is referring to the final glory of the son of man as he descended Yes, but that's reading hagai as a christian not reading hagai as a 520 bc jew you see the difference They have no knowledge of the book of revelation in 520 bc Matthew mark luke john jesus and paul weren't even a twinkle in their granddaddy's granddaddy's granddaddy's eye You can't use the new testament As your only interpreter of old testament text So I think the correct In this moment interpretation of verse seven is that I will fill this house with glory the arrival of jesus however, we as christians can see Kind of like a foreshadowing of final prophecy there now verse eight the silver is mine The gold is mine declares the lord the glory of this present house will be greater than the glory of the former house So let's take all of the spiritualization away what he's saying is Herod's temple gonna be bigger than solomon's is that a historically accurate fact yes by a lot Herod spent a ton of money expanding the temple complex so he could buy back Good treatment from the jews because the jews don't like it when their own people turn against them and side with the romans They find that to be really distasteful So what herod does is he cozies up to the romans? He gets them to make him a vassal king so he's in charge He taxes the mess out of the jews, but then he uses their tax money to expand the temple and do so bought All some goodwill from the jews What did it also do? It fulfilled this passage right here Where the money the silver is mine the gold is mine. That's actual money currency back then And the glory of this present house the second temple expanded by herod Will be greater than the glory of the former house the one that solomon built in the middle of the old testament And this place will grant peace declares the lord almighty. How does the second temple herod's temple? How does that grant peace? Well, if we're following through we have to find a way for the second temple to grant peace before 70 ad when it's destroyed I think there's only one thing when the sanhedrin voted to condemn jesus of nazareth They set in motion a chain of events That ended up buying the greatest peace the world has ever known salvation in christ Now it's not fulfilled world peace yet. We get that in revelation when jesus comes back And we have the whole army and defend the king and right that's all going to happen later But right here If I have to understand that we are talking about the second temple built in 720 bc and destroyed in 70 ad In order for the word of god to be true. There must be an interpretation that makes sense of the text That doesn't mean later. We can't talk about a spiritual analogy for what it could mean for us But the text has to make sense on its own first We don't just over spiritualize it because we don't want to study the history So the glory of this present house meaning the second temple will be greater than the glory of the former house Herod's temple was larger than solomon's bam and peace will be granted they condemn christ He ultimately dies on golgotha which isn't in the temple complex proper. He could see it though from where christ was hanging on the cross He absolutely could see the temple But how do how can I show you that that this place meaning the second temple will grant peace? The condemnation of christ occurs inside the temple temple complex So all of that is really just to get you to see this whole first section Is that god delivers powerful promises to his people in the midst of discouragement verse 10? On the 24th day of the nine month in the second year of darious or translation december 18th 520 bc The word of the lord comes to hagi This is what the word of lord says now we're going to ask the priests If someone carries consecrated meat in the fold of their garment And that fold touches some bread Stew wine olive oil other food does it become consecrated the priests answer no Then he asks the same question in verse 13 If a person defiled by contact with a dead body touches one of these things does it become defiled then the priests reply Yes, it becomes defiled. Let me break this down Old testament judaism is built on ritual cleanliness Why because they were to be clean in order to come in the presence of god This lays down the foundation for us for why we need forgiveness is because sin is antithetical to god's holiness god's glory But notice the example here. He's asking the priests those who are supposed to know the law Those are supposed to know what god's word says and says listen if you have something that's consecrated to god consecrated means to be set apart What's another word for set apart? Holy when you have something that's holy consecrated set apart for god and that thing touches something else Does consecration transfer? No But if you have something that's defiled That's unholy and it touches something else. Does it transfer? Yes. Here's the breakdown here Consecration is not contagious corruption is That's what he's trying to teach his people using their laws to show them listen Consecration is not contagious but corruption 100 is you like a little leaven leavens the whole loaf that's a quote from jesus a rotten apple spoils the Whole bunch right that wasn't jesus. That was us, but the whole point is there corruption Is contagious look at 14 So it is with this people and this nation corporate view right this people and this nation in my sight Declares the lord whatever they do and whatever they offer there is defiled You ever given thought to the idea That the very worship that you offer to god Could be defiled before you ever deliver it That's what he's saying He's saying because see corruption is contagious If you are corrupt and we give everything we give comes out of that corruption Consecration Verse 15 now give careful thought to this From this day on what is different about this day? Why is why is this day making a change? Because it's on this day That the people of god stop and turn from their selfishness and step back towards god in obedience consider consider consider How things were before one stowed one stone was laid on Laid on another in the lord's temple meaning let's look at how it was when you were in disobedience When anyone came for a heap of 20 measures there were only 10 when anyone went To a wine vat to draw 50 mothers there were only 20 I struck the work of your hands with blight mildew and hail yet. You did not return to me God disciplines those he loves If your life is difficult, I know I know in our culture we love to explain, you know, everything is difficult It's because well just you know, the enemy is attacking me left and right Maybe you're just in sin and god wants you to change Like maybe we don't always have to blame the devil. Is the devil real? Yes. Is he opposed to the people of god? Yes, does he want you to accept sin and go to hell? Yes That doesn't dissuade the fact that you have a free will and you can willingly choose stupid things I would say this to my children. So I'll say it to you as a pastor I am not obligated to rescue you from the consequences of your bad choices Sometimes it's those very consequences. God uses to turn us around look at the story of the prodigal son The father didn't chase him down while he was in sin city He looked he waited he watched he saw his son coming from a long way away, but he stayed at home Why? Just like god in the deuteronomy, you know Just like god in the deuteronomy, you know, you want meat fine. I'm gonna give you so much meat. It's gonna be coming out your nose God will allow you to experience the bad consequences of your choices to get you to turn around. You're not being punished. You're being disciplined The only difference is whether you trust the character of god that his discipline is for my betterment See punishment is just to make him feel good about making me feel bad Discipline he feels bad about trying to get me to be good. That's discipline So god is telling him in verse 16 listen Or verse 17 I struck all the work of your hand blight mildew hail yet. You did not return to me Verse 18 from this day on What's different? They've turned the corner now Right like the prodigal came home. They've turned the corner from this day on 24th day of the nine month give careful thought to this day when the foundation of the lord's temple was laid What's the difference? They've now put god first all this time They were in the land building their own paneled houses living in luxury while god's house was now here in verse 18 verse 19 Verse 18, excuse me. They put god first and now he's saying give careful thought watch what i'm gonna do new international bill translation of verse 18 Rob watch what i'm gonna do now that you turn back to me now that you're doing what I told you to do verse 19 Is there any seed left in the barn? This one doesn't make a lot of sense to us because Many of us we don't live in an agrarian culture So let me just ask a simple question Why is why would you hold seed in a barn? Why do you do that? What are you gonna do with it? You're gonna plant it next season, right? So if there's no seed left in the barn, where is it? It's in the somebody said it's in the ground, right? So when he says here is there any seed left in the barn He's referring to the fact that it's just the right time of year where his people took the seed that was in the barn And where did they sow it? They sowed it into the ground Right. So the seed that was in the barn so when he says is there any seed left in the barn y'all have already planted Right y'all have already planted and until now The vine and the fig tree the pomegranate and the olive tree have not borne fruit. Why because they just planted the seeds They haven't grown yet But look at this from this day on I will bless you Why because the abrahamic covenant all the way back in chapter 12 all the lessons they were supposed to learn Do the entire 40 year wandering in deuteronomy what it was obey me and I bless you disobey me and I curse you that's God's words not mine. That was god's word to his people I will give you this land. I will send you my son loves to quote the I will send you into Reap from vineyards that which you have not sown Right, man, that's a blessing I'm gonna send you to reap for vineyards, which you have not sown. That's the blessing of god What's the curse of god i'm gonna take that which you worked for and it will make even less Why what happened here because on this day they began to rebuild the lord's house They put him first and in doing so the terms of the abrahamic covenant Require that god will now bless his people because they are now living in obedience So they go from this this just sad and and and frustrated to god's like yo Like how many times you don't have to raise your hands but parents were sitting next to your children How many times do you have to look at your kids to go if you would do what was right? We wouldn't be here right now right Anybody ever feel that way? Can you imagine the scale on which god feels that way about us? If you would just do what was right, we would not be going through this right now But finally when you turn around and you do what is right now we get to verse 20. Here's the third thing Glory is finally going to return the word of the lord came to hag eye a second time on the 24th day of the month This is december 18th 530 bc Zerubbabel governor of juda that i'm going to shake the heavens and the earth I will overturn royal thrones and shatter the power of foreign kingdoms I will overthrow chariots and their drivers horses and their riders each will fall by his brother's sword God will exercise his sovereign authority over nation states Why is god allowed to be in charge of all nation states because god made the earth? And everything that is in it which therefore means anything you make is under your dominion Anybody ever play with legos as a kid? I know i'm going to talk to the old people who were born before we actually had Like nintendo to play with all day long and even saying nintendo makes me old I get it My son's up there laughing because I didn't say xbox or vr Anything I built with legos I can tear down and rebuild why because I built it Now my parents bought me the legos now. I also grew up as an only child So I didn't have any brothers or sisters to beat up So it was a whole lot more boring for my childhood, right? But I had legos and so I could build something with legos and then when I would get frustrated or I would get tired of that construction What do you do? Take it apart. What can I do build something new? The entire world is god's legos He has authority to tear down and rebuild at his pleasure because it is his sovereign authority and that includes Nation states kingdoms and empires So I will overthrow thorns shatters 23 on That day on what day on the day where all of the royal thrones shattered overthrown kingdoms chariots drivers horses riders brothers and swords 23 on that day declares the lord almighty I will take you my servant's derubable son of shialtiel declares the lord And I will make you like my signet ring For I have chosen you declares the lord almighty So, how do I interpret this last section first I need to point out that um Verse 20 is another prophetic message. You see that we've looked at several prophetic messages throughout this chapter verse 20 is a different prophetic message and Notice nowhere in 20 21 is he talking about the building now? He's talking about what he's going to do Right what he is going to do. He's going to shake the earth the heavens He's going to overthrow shatter foreign kingdoms chariots riders and then on that day Zerubable son of shialtiel. I will make you like my signet ring for I have chosen you I think only these last few verses Look past the second temple period To the glory of jesus reigning and here's why obviously Zerubable son of shialtiel is a regular everyday human dude There isn't a time during zerubable's life that I know of Where all of the world's royal thrones and foreign kingdoms were all overthrown I don't know of a time because even if we were to say that rome overthrew everybody Rome did not overthrow the entire world, right? But there will come a time where the entire world will be under one king and one ruler That's during the millennial kingdom in the book of revelation So how can I possibly relate? Zerubable as the signet ring Symbolizing the millennial kingdom here it is Those of you like your cross references matthew chapter one verse 12 Zerubable Is an ancestor of jesus christ himself If you go to And that's why a lot of times we skip over the genealogies We're like and so and so son of so and so son of so and so and you're like son son son son Okay, here's the action Those genealogies are important And here's why in matthew chapter one verse 12 This is a reference to the messiah who would come from this line and hold the sovereign authority over the whole world in the same way that we refer to jesus as the son of David Is he actually the biological son of david? No, he's a descendant of david He's a son of a son of a son of a son of a son of a son of a son of a son of a son of a son of David in the same instance Jesus is also a son of a son of a son of Zerubable How is it that a descendant of zerubable would be like this? What is the signet ring the symbol of sovereign authority? How is a descendant of zerubable the signet ring of creation? When jesus christ himself the same one who brought temple or brought glory to the second temple Returns as the promised king of kings and lord of lords and stands in the temple in jerusalem Not only bringing the glory of god to the final temple but ruling with the sovereign authority of god on earth this final prophecy is fulfilled There is so much jesus in the old testament if we would just stop to look at it in context So let me sum this up and bring it in for landing. Here you go. Here's the sum up number one God's people were frustrated By comparison of their temple second temple to solomon's that was the first part of the chapter, right? God's people were frustrated by comparison of their temple to solomon's number two God expected spiritual purity from his people as they worked for him They were to be set apart not just for him, but for his service and number three God promised a greater glory for the temple and their nation God delivered the glory in the temple when harrod expanded it. He delivers in the glory of israel when jesus restores it So how can I relate to this? Here's the three things I want you to know number one quality by comparison always disappoints If you live your life comparing what you're looking at to what somebody else has or what you used to could have You will always be disappointed number two Corruption is still contagious do yourself a favor and avoid it Corruption is still contagious. You cannot go. Oh, you know what jim? This little bit of sin is probably not bad. I'll just go to church on sunday Because you will slowly inoculate yourself to more and more sin and more and more corruption. And finally number three jesus's return will bring god's greatest glory And that puts us on par with hagi still waiting for the full return of christ and the last fulfillment Of all of god's promises