Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being a part of our service. Welcome to all of you who are here on our Wilmington campus and all of you who are joining us online. Thank you for being a part of our family and our community and for engaging in worship from wherever you are. I had a little bit of a fumble in my sermon planning for this year. I originally had planned to take my family on vacation next week and so I didn't plan a sermon for next Sunday. And then I somehow miscounted the GROW series. So I ended up having two free weeks on my sermon calendar. So as I was praying this week and I said, Lord, what are we going to talk about for two weeks? Two weeks is longer than one sermon and it's too short to be a series. And so as I was praying, I was like, you know what? I wonder if there are any books of the Bible that are exactly two chapters. I know there are many who are one chapter and obviously there's many more. Would you know there is only one book of the Bible that has two chapters in it? Only one. Anybody not on the worship team want to take a guess at what that book is? Right. So we are going to spend this week and next week in the book of Haggai. And in case any of you didn't know that Haggai is a book of the Bible. So please turn with me to the book of Haggai. It is OK if you need to look at the table of contents to find it. It's at the end of the Old Testament. While you're turning there, I want to give you the key thought and then go through the big Bible story because it's going to be highly relevant to the way we study the book of Haggai. So here's your key thought for basically what I guess was to be a two part sermon. We're going to do the whole book of Haggai. But when I say whole book, Casey, it's only two chapters. So we're going to do both chapters of the book of Haggai. Here's your key thought. God desires love and loyalty from his people. God desires love and loyalty from his people. So now let's get ourselves into the history of the Bible and get to where the book of Haggai takes place. So if you are new to Catalyst, if you're joining us for the first time, we do the big Bible story. If you're new to Catalyst, if you're new to Catalyst, if you're new to Catalyst, if you're new to Catalyst, you're allowed to yell the answers out. I'm going to give you fill in the blanks like this one. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And onto the earth, he planted a garden at a place named Eden. And into the garden of Eden, he put two human beings, one male, one female, Adam and Eve. Also in the garden, in the middle of the garden, there are two trees, And ultimately, Adam and Eve decide their desires are more important than God's design. And they eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And that free will choice brings sin into the world. Ultimately, Adam and Eve are ejected from the garden of Eden. They now have to wander. They then have children. And we follow through and sin begins to explode and expound onto the surface of the world. To the point that God actually regrets making humanity. And he's going to send a flood and give humanity a restart. But during this season, we're about Genesis chapter 8 and 9 in there, God finds that there is one righteous man left on the earth. And he calls to that righteous man and he tells him, Listen, I want you to build a boat. I'm going to send you all of the animals. I'm going to close the door of the boat. And then it's going to rain for 40 days and 40 nights. And flood waters will cover the surface of the earth. That man's name who built the ark is Noah. Then Noah is aboard the ark with his wife, his 3 sons and their wives. They're on board the ark for a little over a year. Flood waters cover the whole surface of the earth. And then the flood waters recede. Adam and his family disembark from the ark. Then Genesis like 10, 11, you have the table of nations. That's where all of the nations of the world come from. The descendants of Noah's 3 sons are Shem, Ham, and Japheth. That's right. So then table of nations, we get to Genesis 12. God chooses one man, again one man, on the whole surface of the earth. And he says, Hey, you, my bro, who lives in Ur of the Chaldeans, I'm going to make a mighty nation from you and from your descendants. I will be your God. You will be my people. I will bless those who bless you. I will curse those who curse you. Now leave your father's house and go to the land I will show you. When God said that to this man, his name was Abram. But later, God will change his name from Abram to Abraham. And that's why we call that the Abrahamic covenant. God has now chosen a man and from the descendants of that man, he's going to build a mighty nation. Then that man has 2 sons. The younger of Abram's sons also receives the covenant promise from God. The second patriarch or covenant inheritor, Abram's younger son's name is Isaac. And then like his father, Isaac also has 2 sons. And it is the younger of the 2 sons, which God repeats the Abrahamic covenant again. And the younger son, who is the third patriarch or the third covenant inheritor, his name is Jacob. And then Jacob has many sons. Jacob has 4 wives, many sons. That's a different sermon for another day. And ultimately, the younger of Jacob's sons is probably a little mouthy, to be honest. He's a little arrogant. And his brothers decide to sell him into slavery. They originally want to kill him. And one of the brothers steps up and goes, no, let's not kill him. Let's make some money on this deal. Right? So let's sell him into slavery. And so Jacob's sons sell their younger brother into slavery, into the land of Egypt. He is enslaved in Egypt for about 13 years. During those 13 years, he lives to honor God. And God places him in the right place at the right time, with the right gifting, to interpret a dream from Pharaoh. And ultimately, through that dream interpretation, he becomes the second in charge of all Egypt. That young man's name is? Joseph. Under Joseph's leadership, Egypt prospers. And Jacob and his brothers and all of his family, they're able to move into Egypt, into the land of Goshen. Double points. Into the land of Goshen, where they are protected. The reason they go to the land of Goshen is Egyptians don't like shepherds. They're like icky, dirty people. And so they put them on the back 40. Which is fine, because God knows how to bless people on the back 40. And so the nation gets blessed. They start growing. And then comes along a Pharaoh who did not know about Joseph, did not remember what Joseph did for Egypt. And they enslave God's people. And then, in the persecution of slavery, they cry out to God for a deliverer. They want to be rescued. They remember the promises of old. And God sends them a deliverer. A young man who was born in Egypt, raised in the palace, then has a minor character moment where he needs to get out of town. He goes to Midian, spends another 40 years watching sheep in Midian. Marries a woman named Zipporah. His older brother's name is Aaron. That man's name is? Moses. Moses. And Moses' sister's name is? Miriam. Alright. So Moses comes back to the land of Egypt, famously says, let my people go. Let my people go. Ultimately, we see the 10 plagues of Egypt. God pulls his people miraculously out of Egypt with the intention of bringing them right to the promised land. But they have an obedience problem. And they disobey him again, choosing their desires over God's designs. And now they have to wander in the wilderness for how many years? For 40 years, God's people wander in the wilderness. And the entire generation that experienced the 10 plagues and God's miraculous deliverance die off. Except for 2. There are 2 who were faithful when they first made it to Canaan. Joshua and? Caleb. Ultimately, Joshua is appointed the new leader after Moses' leadership. Joshua leads them into the land of Canaan. He's supposed to move out everyone else. God goes before him. And Joshua says, I'm going to send pestilence before you. I will move them out. So the people who were left were already disobeying God. They move in the land of Canaan. They intermixed with the Canaanites. And now this is a problem called syncretism. When you try and take that which is godly and mix it with that is not, like synchronize, syncretism. And so God's people still have an obedience problem. That gets us to the judges period where everyone does what is right in their own? Eyes. Everyone decides for themselves what's godly and what's not. Instead of again listening to God's design. Ultimately, they fully reject God by asking for something like all the other nations have. I want this thing like all the other kids have. What did the nation of Israel do in their full rejection of God's leadership? They asked for a? King. The first king of the United Monarchy of Israel is? Saul. The second king is? David. The third king is? Solomon. And after Solomon, everybody do it with me. Ready? Civil War. Civil War happens and God's people are fractured into two nations. The southern kingdom of? Judah. Which has how many tribes? Two. And the northern kingdom of? Israel. Which has how many tribes? Amen. That's right. And they live this way for the whole middle of the Old Testament. There are two nations. Israel in the north, Judah in the south. Still being disobedient. Every now and again we get a good king and they repent and they come back. There are more good kings in the south than in the north. And ultimately God's like, listen, part of the agreement of you living in this promised land that I'm going to give you is I'm going to bless your obedience and I'm going to curse your disobedience. And you've been so disobedient, Aaron, it's time for a time out. I'm going to put my kids in a time out. And he uses an external pagan nation who invades the northern kingdom of Israel, defeats them and carries them off. That external pagan nation is? Assyria. Then Assyria falls to a new world power. It's on the rise. That world power is? Babylon. Babylon then comes into the southern kingdom of Judah, defeats them, carries them off into exile to Persia. So Persia defeats Babylon. Persia comes in. Everybody gets carried away. Now, how many years are they in captivity? 400. Nope, that's the Egyptian one. 70. They're in captivity for 70 years. During this captivity, that's where like your Daniel, the book of Daniel begins at the Babylonian captivity where they're taken away. And the book of Jeremiah, Jeremiah is in Jerusalem. And he says, y'all, is again the New International Bill translation. My bros, settle in for 70 years. Do good for the city. Have your sons marry. Plant gardens. Do good things. You're going to be here for a while. Then at the end of the 70 years, I'm sorry, at the end of the 70 years, then Persia defeats Babylon. Everybody lets them go home. And this is where the book of Haggai starts. So the book of Haggai begins where God's people, his promised covenant people, return to the land that God has covenantially promised them. And their intention, if you look in the book of Ezra, for instance, the intention of returning from Persia into Judea is to rebuild the temple and have their culture back. So I just need you to understand that. So the setting is after the Babylonian exile, God's people returned to the promised land to rebuild. But unfortunately, they prioritize themselves over God. So with all of that as our backstory, now let's jump into Haggai. Chapter one only has 15 verses, so I'd like to read all 15, and then we'll go back, chop it up, and walk it through. In the second year of King Darius, on the first day of the sixth month, the word of the Lord came through the prophet Haggai to Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and Joshua, son of Josadach, the high priest. It rolls off the tongue, supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, right? Right there. Number two, this is what the Lord Almighty says. These people say, the time has not yet come to rebuild the Lord's house. Then the word of the Lord came through the prophet Haggai. Is it a time for you yourselves to be living in your paneled houses while this house remains in ruin? Now, this is what the Lord Almighty says. Give careful thought to your ways. You have planted much, but harvested little. You eat, but you never have enough. You drink, never have your fill. You put on clothes, but you are not warm. You earn wages only to put them in a purse with holes in it. This is what the Lord Almighty says. Give careful thought to your ways. Go up into the mountains and bring down timber and build my house so that I may take pleasure in it and be honored. You expected much, but see, it turned out to be little. What brought you home? I blew away. Why, declares the Lord Almighty, because of my house, which remains a ruin, while each of you is busy with your own house. Therefore, because of you, the heavens have withheld their dew and the earth its crops. I called for a drought on the fields and the mountains, on the grain, the new wine, the olive oil, and everything else the ground produces on people and livestock and on all the labor of your hands. Then Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, Joshua, son of Josadak, the high priest, and the whole remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the Lord their God and the message of the prophet Haggai, because the Lord their God had sent him, and the people feared the Lord. Then Haggai, the Lord's messenger, gave this message of the Lord to the people. I am with you, declares the Lord. So the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, son of Josadak, the high priest, and the spirit of the whole remnant of the people. They came and began to work on the house of the Lord, Almighty their God, on the 24th day of the sixth month. And then I want you to stop reading. You'll notice I didn't read the rest of verse 15. That's because I'm going to argue next week that that back half of verse 15 is really the first part of the verse of the next chapter. Remember when the Bible was originally written, we didn't have chapter and verse notations, right? Haggai is not sitting here going, Kosh, let's, let's, this is verse 15. Let's do that. No, we didn't put the verses in until hundreds and hundreds of years after the New Testament. And in my opinion, sometimes the thematic break of the text does not always match the numeric break of where this is. And so that's why we're going to stop right at 24th day of the sixth month. And then we'll pick that up next week when we take a look at chapter two. So let's rewind back to the beginning here. In the second year of King Darius, stop. King Darius is the king of what country? Persia. Persia, that's right. The reason that that's important is you need to understand that everything that happens in this book happens under Persian rule. Did you ever notice that? In the third year of King whatever, in the fourth year of King whatever, in the second year of Caesar whatever, right? The book is opening telling you who the governmental power is that is over the actions taking place on the page. Why is that important? Because that's how they keep time. That is how the ancients kept time. In as much as I could turn to my friend Rod and say, Rod, do you remember in the second year of, I mean, pick a president, in the second year of Carter's presidency, ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba, right? For those of you who are younger, President Carter was a president. Just so you all know that. I got told the other day that I was born in the late 1900s and I had to go, I'm a pastor, I'm a pastor, I'm a pastor, I'm a pastor. Oh my gosh. So if I were to say to you in the, how about the second year of President Biden's presidency or the fifth year of President George W. Bush's presidency, right? We still do this today, but we also use the year in 2020, in 19, whatever. They did not use year counts. They used the count of who was in charge. So it not only tells you the when, it also tells you the who. Under whose authority is all of this book happening? It's under the second year of King Darius. Then it tells us, on the first day of the sixth month. So obviously they didn't have, what's the sixth month of the year, June? Yeah, I'm super good at the math. You saw that, right? That's why Mr. Bill's in charge of the books. So you could just simply, if you want to look at it as June 1st, right? The word of the Lord, all in capital letters, you see that there? Every time you see Lord in capital letters, what does it mean? It means the covenant name for God. It means Yahweh. The writer is letting you know this is not just God. This is his actual covenant name. So even before I get out of verse one, the context now goes further. God's people have ended their exile. They have returned to their covenant land under the authority of a pagan king. And now they're receiving word from their covenant God in their covenant land as his covenant people. But they're still not completely free. They're still under the rule of King Darius of Persia. The word of the Lord came through the prophet Haggai. So let's also define what is a prophet in the Old Testament? A prophet in the Old Testament is an individual who is uniquely chosen by God himself to be a spokesman or spokesperson. For the nation, prophets do not always tell the future, right? In fact, in this book, there's not a lot of future telling going on. They are also foretelling God's words. They are speaking on behalf of God to his people. I would say this very much reflects the New Testament gift of prophecy. Prophecy can merely be telling you something God needs you to hear about a situation, not predicting the future. Like with crystal balls and stuff like that. No. Here, the word of the Lord, Yahweh, covenant God of Israel, through the prophet, divinely selected messenger Haggai, to, and super fun, Zerubbabel. I don't understand why people don't name their kids Zerubbabel anymore. It just flows, man. Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and Joshua, son of Josadach, the high priest. Notice the two characters in the first verse. Don't miss that. They're not just names and titles. What are the names and what are the titles? What is Zerubbabel? Zerubbabel is the governor. And what is Joshua? He is the high priest. So the prophet of God, the chosen divine messenger who is about to speak for God, is speaking to the civil or governmental and the spiritual or religious leaders of God's people. Why is that important? Well, when we know the time period, we know it's post-exile. We know they are waiting for what? They're waiting for the Messiah. They're waiting for their freedom. They don't want to be under King Darius. They don't want to be under King Jesus. They just don't know his name yet. Why is it important? Because the prophet is speaking to two halves of God's people. God's kingdom is a theocracy. He is in charge, right? Don't get it twisted. I am not in charge. God is always in charge. God's design for all of creation was for Adam and Eve to live under his authority in his creation. So God's design when he makes his covenant with Abraham is that Abraham is obedient to God. God's design when we rescue God's people from Egypt and the family of Jacob becomes the nation of Israel, what does it give them? A law code. God was always supposed to be both the governor and the spiritual leader of his people. It's always the way it's supposed to be. When King Jesus returns, he is not just returning as a savior. He is returning as a sovereign. He is returning to be the king of creation. He was in Genesis 1 and 2 before that whole sin side track thing took us in a bad, bad ditch. So it is always God's design to be both the civil and spiritual leader. All of that is just verse 1. Also for those of you who like your Bible study notes, when was the second year of King Darius? We are most likely looking at August 29th, 520 BC. Just for those of you who like your notes. August 29th, 520 BC is most likely when that verse happens. Then we get to verse 2. This is what the Lord, notice covenant context, this is what the Lord Almighty says. These people say. So this is not what God is saying. God is verbalizing what the actions of his people are saying. Anybody want to say that? God is verbalizing what the actions of his people are saying. Anybody ever heard the phrase, a picture is worth a thousand words? Or actions speak louder than words? Verse 2 is God summarizing or summating what the actions of his people are saying to him. Now I happen to think this is really powerful. How many times do we stop and think of how the actions of our life are received by God? Right? It's not just you coming to church on Sunday or those of you joining us online, putting that good morning catalyst, praise Jesus in the chat. It's not just that. What about your actions on Tuesday? What about your motivations on Thursday? What about the way you live your life Friday, Saturday? What does that say? Right? If I could be, if you could let me take a little step off the page on verse 2. If God showed up right now and good looking Jim, who's right where he should be, right? Good looking Jim stands up and under the unction of the Holy Spirit says out loud, this is what the actions of, fill in the blank with your name, life says to me. How many people would be a little nervous to hear that? Right? I'll just admit I would be. Do I think every moment of every day, oh my God, am I being, am I holy in this action? Am I righteous in this action? Am I a kingdom representative in this action? This is what verse 2 really is. God is reading the mail of his people's life and saying, this is what you're saying to me. What you're saying is the time has not yet come to rebuild the Lord's house. Now on the surface, that doesn't sound like a bad statement. But if you look at the whole context and you could go over to the book of Ezra and read the first chapter, you will see the intention before they ever left Persia was to rebuild the temple first. That's the back story to verse 1. The intention that they told King Darius when they were leaving Persia. In fact, I believe, and it's not a direct quote, but they specifically talk about, I think it's the cedars of Lebanon. They talk about where they're going to get the wood. They're going to go and harvest the best wood they can find and rebuild the house of the Lord. And here in verse 2, they've been home for a little while. And I know that because in a moment, God's going to talk about the fact that they've rebuilt their own homes. So y'all were home long enough that you rebuilt your own stuff. But the Lord's house is still in ruins. So then I do have to point out here on one hand, I totally feel for them. On the other hand, I need you to remember this entire conversation between God and his people takes place within covenant relationship. Haggai is not a book written to non-Jews. Haggai is a book written to God's committed covenant people. That is the context of this. So it would be poor methodology. It would be bad study to try to take something from the book of Haggai and apply it to God's relationship with pre-Christians. Why? Because that's not the context of this book. This is God's relationship with his own covenant people. They left Persia with the intention of rebuilding the Lord's house. And again, just like we saw in Eden and so many times, the human condition, the human nature itself hopelessly chooses our own desires over God's design. So God now, verse 3, God has to interrupt the story. The word of the Lord came through the prophet Haggai. Haggai is there and he grabs the man of God to speak to the people of God in the land of God by the Spirit of God. There is no way around. Haggai is about to spit some literal gospel level truth. Verse 4, is it a time for you yourselves to be living in paneled houses while this house remains a ruin? Now, I had to deep dive that word paneled because I was trying to understand in historical context. What does a paneled house mean? Most likely, has anybody ever seen a metal panel roof? So the paneled most likely refers to the style of roof, not paneled walls, right? If you came over my house and somehow mistakenly, my wife allowed you in our basement, which would never happen. You would see because the basement is the one part of our house that has not been remade or redone yet. And so it still looks like Burt Reynolds and Cannonball Run with the wood panel in the basement. That is not what we're referring to here. Although I have to admit, I was in my office downstairs in the basement studying this week. And I was like, man, do I need to change the walls of my basement? Like, does God have something against wood paneling I need to know about? No, the panel refers to the type of roof. But here's why that's important. Paneled roofs were luxurious. They were expensive. This is not God's people just happened to rebuild any old house to live in. By adding the word paneled here to verse four, God is pointing out you didn't just rebuild your house. You rebuilt a luxurious house. You spent the time to give yourself a good, good house. There's probably a Chris Tomlin good, good father joke in there, but we'll just let it go. They spent the time to make their homes luxurious, while God's house, the house they were supposed to come back and build first, still remains in a ruin. And here's where I need you to see. I think if you link verse three to verse four, you're going to catch possibly the biggest theme in the entire book. Loyalty is God's expectation of covenant relationship. Loyalty is God's expectation of covenant relationship. And I'll give you a great example. We in our culture today have an example of covenant relationship. We call it marriage. So let me just ask a simple question. Wives, when your husband comes home from work and he's told you that he's going to do this or that or the next thing, and he comes home and starts puttering on his own thing, whether that's the car, that's the garage, or whatever it is, do you feel that he's being loyal to you? This is the moment you elbow your husband and remind him they forgot that to-do list yesterday. But let's flip it around. Husbands, let's say you've been working all day and your wife told you she was getting ready for you to come home, whether she's also at work and she's ordered dinner, or maybe like my wife, she stays at home so she's making dinner, whatever it is, your wife has given you a certain expectation of what's going to go down at your house when you come home. You can fill in the blank with whatever is appropriate there. And then all of a sudden you come home and that expectation is totally off the table because she's on the phone with her mom or her sister or her girlfriends and she is choosing them over you. Do you feel loved? That's what they're doing to God. They told God, oh, God, we're totally going to put you first. If you let us go home, if you'll just get us out of Persia, God will put you first. We'll go all the way to Lebanon. We'll get the best wood. We will build your temple better than Solomon's Day. And they get home and they're selfish and they're disloyal and they choose themselves over God. Why I needed you to see covenant relationship is the context of the disloyalty. It's not disloyal when a non-Christian doesn't choose Jesus. Even though we live that way, right? We live in a man. In fact, I just saw a recent Pew research poll that the number of Christians in America is no longer on the decline. It has remained steady for about the last five years. Sixty two to sixty three percent of the population of the United States of America is Christian. It's been on the decline for the majority of my life. It started. I think the high was seventy eight percent and it has declined to about sixty two, sixty three percent. But for the last five years, it's been holding steady. So the context of this is the covenant relationship with God's people. And in that covenant relationship, the disloyalty of choosing themselves over God. Now we get to verse five. OK, so now this is what the Lord Almighty says. So God's people have been disloyal. Gents, she didn't do whatever she said she was going to do. Wives, he didn't do whatever he said he was going to do. And I don't know how it works in your house. But if I promised my wife that I'm going to do something and then I failed to be good on my word, I'm going to get one of two things. I'm going to get. Or I'm going to get. Right. My wife is going to give me these super subtle hints that I'm really bad at picking up on that I neglected to do something. Right. I gave you an expectation and then I failed to meet it. And that is often interpreted as disloyalty. I chose whatever the other thing was over her. And that's disloyalty. So God's like, OK, well, how about say how about verse five? Give careful thoughts to your ways. This is God crossing his arms going, OK, how about we talk about the way you've been living? Right. Let's talk about that. We need to have a talk. This is the think about it moment that God says. Verse six. You have planted much. But harvested little. You eat, but you never have enough. You drink, never have your fill. You put on clothes, but are never warm. You earn wages only to put them in a purse with holes in it. Do you see the juxtaposition here? God mentions three things. First, the planting and the harvesting. Where are God's people when they're receiving this message? Where is this story taking place? Judah. Inside God's covenant land, right? They're in most specifically right outside Jerusalem because they're rebuilding the temple. So Jerusalem in Judea. That's super important because the context is covenant. Part of the covenant, part of the covenant relationship with God is I am sending you into the land of milk and honey. My son mentioned it just the other day. I have sent you to reap from vineyards which you have not sown. I have sent you into a land to be blessed even though you haven't had to do the work. Part of God's covenant relationship with his people was a blessing on the provision when they lived in obedience. And the reverse of that is a curse on them in his own land when they lived in disobedience. So here, the very beginning of verse 6, this is that Deuteronomy blessings and curses lived out in real life. Yo, you planted much but you didn't really get much from it. That's the New International Jersey version right there. You eat but never have enough. You drink, never have your fill, put clothes on and are never warm. This is the second part. Talking about the insatiability of them focusing solely on themselves and still selfishly never having enough. It's amazing when you focus on what you don't have, how much that becomes your entire mentality. I don't have, I don't have, I don't have, I don't have. You're jealous of someone who has something even though they may have less than you. I don't have that. Their selfishness in putting themselves first has left them with a lot of pain. Their selfishness in putting themselves first has left them in this constant state of unhappy, dissatisfied, never having enough. And then the third part, you earn wages but you put them in a purse with holes in it. Their focus on money left them always in want. Left them dissatisfied, left them never having enough. Very much like Ebenezer Scrooge in Charles Dickinson's script, right? He's so focused on the amassing of money that he never has enough money. So focused on the just consumption of brownies that I never have enough brownies. Anybody know, I'm the only person who feels that way? Just saying. When you become so focused on consumption, the only thing you feel is dissatisfaction. Dissatisfied or dissatisfaction. Those are both words. Dissatisfaction is not a word. See, this is why you put the pastor's wife on the front row. She's going, not a word. So when you focus on consumption and all of your happiness comes from what you consume, you're dooming your life to being dissatisfied at all, to dissatisfaction. That's what you're dooming yourself to. It should be a word and we're going to make it a word today. Dissatisfaction. Verse seven. So this is what the Lord says. Now you're getting a second, let's think about this moment from God. Give careful thought to your ways. Verse eight. Go up to the mountains and bring down timber and build my house so that I may take pleasure and be honored. God is asking them to do that which they committed to do before they left Persia. Right? This is not a new instruction. Now, one of the commentaries that I read while studying this week brought up an interesting point. So, Jerry, let's just say everybody leaves Persia. We're all on our way back to Judea. We've agreed that we're going to go up to Lebanon and we're going to get the best wood to rebuild the Lord's house. So we go get the wood, we bring it home, but the construction project on the temple never happened. And instead, everybody ends up with super-shwanky houses. It's not a short leap to figure out what they did with the wood. Right? Now, is it explicitly stated in Scripture that they took the wood that was supposed to be for the Lord's house and built their homes with it? No. What is explicitly stated in Scripture? They went to get the best wood, didn't build the temple, ended up with fantastic houses. So can I tell you with absolute certainty that all the really nice paneled roofs that they had came out of the wood that was supposed to go to the temple? No, I can't tell you explicitly. Can I tell you it is very possible a scriptural implication? Yes. It is totally possible that it's an implication. I cannot promise you that it's explicitly there. What is said is they went to get the wood, they didn't build the temple, but they spent the time building these super lavish houses. They could have gone and gotten brand new wood and built their homes, and that means they let the good wood for the temple sit there and rot. Either way, they chose themselves over God's house. I just thought it was an interesting point that maybe they go up to the mountains. Why are they going to the mountains? Because the wood that they originally got for the temple is either not there or not usable, so they have to go and get its replacement. Either they built their houses with it or they left it to rot. I leave that to your interpretation. Whichever way you want to feel that, you can go there. But what is God saying? Look at what he says about when they rebuild his house. This is God saying, I want your loyalty. I want to be prioritized in your actions. Why? Because we're in covenant relationship. Shouldn't my wife be able to look at me and say, Bill, I want priority in your life. I should be prioritized in your actions. Nobody faults Melanie for saying that to me. Why? Because the context of our covenant relationship requires me to prioritize her above all other humans. The context of God's covenant relationship with his people requires his people to prioritize him over all other relationships, and that includes themselves. So what is ultimately, I would argue, what does God want from his people here? He wants them to live in such a way that they live to please and honor him within the covenant relationship they are in with him. The loyalty, the priority comes from the covenant relationship. It doesn't replace the covenant relationship. In the same way in your marriages, the loyalty and priority are a component of the relationship. It doesn't replace the relationship. It does not matter if someone who is not your spouse chooses to be loyal to you. It totally matters if someone is your spouse and they choose not to be loyal to you. See the difference? It totally matters if Melanie chooses not to be loyal to me. It doesn't matter if any of the rest of you choose to be loyal to me. Why? Because none of the rest of us are in a covenant relationship the way we are. Let's just let that float for a minute. Let's get to verse 9. You expected much. God is linking back to the you planted but didn't harvest. You expected much, but see, I turned it out to be a little. What you brought home, I blew away. Why? Declares the Lord Almighty. Because my house, which is in a ruin, while each of you is busy building your own house. Here's that covenant curse. God said, listen, I supernaturally restrained the fruits of your efforts because you didn't put me first. Now, I do have to say we are talking about covenant context, Old Testament under Deuteronomic law. What I cannot tell you directly applies today is that God will purposely frustrate the works of your hands if you don't put him first. We live in a different covenant. We live under a faith covenant. Can I tell you that God's expectation of his people has changed? No. God still wants you to be loyal to him. He still wants you to be a priority to him. Does God have the power to supernaturally frustrate your efforts? Yeah, 100% he does. Can I tell you with 100% accuracy that I know that God will treat you the same way? No. We do live under a different covenant. However, I would argue as my counterpoint here, we are still in covenant relationship with the same God. The same God who desires priority. The same God who desires loyalty. Further, I will tell you that in my personal life, let me just speak from my personal experience. There was a season of my life shortly after I moved out of my parents home when I knew God wanted me to be in the ministry. And I knew I just did not want to do this. I was 18. I was young. I just wanted to be famous. Like sex, drugs, rock and roll, the whole thing, man. I thought that would be the cool lifestyle. And I didn't want to work in a church. All the pastors I had met to that point were kind of boring and stupid. Like I didn't meet any cool pastors growing up. I don't know if any of you grew up with a cool pastor. I did not. I grew up with very old, very suit driven, 3-piece stuff shirt. You know, they just were not engageable humans. And so I just didn't want to do that. I didn't want to spend my life in a church serving people. I wanted to go spend my life being selfish and rocking out. And so I spent several years of my life trying to build a band, trying to tour, getting some friends. We did actually cut a CD at some point. I actually messaged a friend of mine. They found a copy of that CD in an old drawer in their house. And I told somebody, I will pay you money to send it to me. So, but this is what happened during that whole season. And I'm a creative guy. Those of you who know me, I love to create. I love to build things. Everything I built fell through my fingers like sand. Everything I tried to build for myself that was not a part of God's plan for my life fell apart like dry sand on a beach. The moment I turned back and I said, okay, God, I submit. You're real. You're God. I'm not. You make priorities. I say, yes, sir. The moment that shift happened, priority and loyalty. The moment that happened in my life. And Melanie will tell you, as a child and as an adult, you take out that 3-year wilderness wandering period. I have an extremely high batting average. If I attempt to do something, there's like an 85% chance that I will succeed. I have failed miserably. I mean horribly miserably. And I think only one thing in the 22 years we've been married. And I will out myself so that you don't have to tell the story. There was a time in our younger years when we were worship pastors that I thought it would be super cool to buy an acoustic electric cello. And so I did. For Christmas one year, I bought a black acoustic electric cello. And my goal was to learn how to play the cello to then put it through my electric guitar effects unit and be able to play it in worship. While leading worship. I just thought that would be super cool. What I found out is Bill cannot play the cello to save his life. Okay? I understand fingers on a finger board. But there's something you got to do like duck hand with a whole... And a bow. And I kid you not, it just sounded like somebody was strangling cats every time I tried to play. So I'm not telling you that just because you walk with God, everything you touch, you don't have the mightest touch. But my parents, they will watch this message and they'll tell you. Even as a child, I have this just uncanny. If I try something, I generally succeed. If I try something now as an adult, I will generally succeed. But in that one period of my life, nothing. I mean nothing. At one point I was homeless. I was living out of my car. At one point I was eating from the food pantry at my church because my job didn't pay. Like everything I tried to do just sifted like sand. I 100% will tell you, I believe that was the discipline of the Lord going, I told you go this way. Right? Have you not learned the lesson? Have we not paid attention? Just do what I ask you to do and I will open doors. And as soon as I did that, man, doors, I met the most beautiful, amazing woman of my life. At the end of that stupid season, she turned me into a smart person. Then all of a sudden we moved and we both had jobs. And God has just blessed our life because loyalty. So I can't tell you for sure that God is going to frustrate the works of your hands. I can only tell you he did it then and he did it to me. So you can roll the dice on your life if that's what you want. Verse 10. Therefore, because of you, the heavens have withheld their due and the earth its crops. This is God's supernatural divine power, frustrating his people in covenant relationship, living in the land, not living right. I called for a drought on the fields and the mountains, on the grain, the new wine, the olive oil, and everything else the ground produces on people and livestock and on the labor of your hands. God is not playing around. This is that, right? Mess around and find out what happens if you don't live for me. This is God bringing his judgment on his people and supernaturally restraining not only their effort. I mean, the end of verse 11 to me is hugely convicting and on the labor of your hands, God supernaturally restrained their human productivity because they were working for themselves and not for him. Not only the fact that God has the power over the rain and the mountains and all the other things we know he does, he supernaturally restrained their own abilities. Then verse 12, everybody's favorite name. Then Zerubbabel son of Sealtiel and Joshua son of Josadoc. What are they? Governor and high priest, civil leader, spiritual leader, and then the whole remnant of the people obeyed. Here's what I got to point out. Covenant relationship in the Old Testament is corporate. Let me say that again. Covenant relationship in the Old Testament is corporate. God chose a nation that people are in. Now we can debate the nature of covenant relationship in the New Testament. There is an individual debate to be had and there is still a corporate debate to be had. We don't have to get into that, but those of you who want to have that debate, just let me know in your connect card. You buy the coffee. I'll bring the Bible and we'll make it happen. But I need you to see here that the governmental leader, the civil leader repents. The spiritual leader repents. And the entire nation of people obey the voice of the Yahweh, covenant Lord, their God, and the message from prophet Haggai because the Lord God had sent him. It is Haggai's prophetic intervention that writes God's people's action and their government changes and their spirit changes in order to do what God had them do. Also the very end of verse 12, and the people feared the Lord. That word fear is kind of a misplaced word in our culture today. That word literally means they honored him. They placed him above themselves. The same way we don't have a king. In fact, America doesn't do well with kings. We don't like them. The last one we had, we threw his tea in the water and said go away. But if you were in a kingdom that had a king, you would have a certain amount of reverence for your sovereign. Right? If you were an English citizen in London and the king were walking down the street, you would have an understanding that he had honor for his position. That's what that word means there. And they feared the Lord means they gave honor to the Lord. 13. Then Haggai, the Lord's messenger, gave this message from the Lord covenant to the people. I am with you. Anthony, I can't think of four better words that I would like to hear from God. Right? We go from, okay guys, you messed around. Let's find out. Watch. I'm going to hold back the rain. I'm going to hold back the crops. I'm going to hold back your sheep. Even the work of your hands will be held back. And then God changes. I am with you. And then in the next verse, verse 14, what happens? Their spirits are stirred. Instead of God supernaturally restraining the works of their hands and the crops of their fields, now God stirs them. Again, the context is covenant relationship. 14. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbiel, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, son of Jezadak, the high priest, the spirit of the whole remnant of the people. God stirred the hearts of the whole nation. Now what does that stirred up mean? Literally it means breath, wind, mind, spirit. He agitated or shook them out of their selfishness. He agitated a heart of passion for the people to once again be loyal and put in first. Has anybody ever felt that? Right? Have you ever been like maybe listening to your favorite worship song or you're reading scripture and you can feel within you, my heart is filled with love. My heart is agitated. My spirit is stirred. Whatever words you want to put there, I can feel that. It's almost like if there is a flame on the inside of you that is your faith, right? Sometimes that flame is like a candle and sometimes that flame is like a bonfire. What stokes that flame is this. It's stirring of the heart, the agitating of the spirit. And all of this happens, 15. On the 24th day of the sixth month. If you go back to verse one, what was the date? It was the first day of the sixth month. So this exchange between Haggai and the governor and the high priest and all of the people happens over a 23 day period. The reason I think that's important is I think we should let ourselves realize that as human beings, sometimes we don't give up our selfishness on a dime. Right? I would love it if I could just preach and teach a super convicting message and everybody gives up their selfishness on day one. And you know, everybody's ready to serve in the nursery and everybody's ready to give electronically and everybody wants... Let's just be honest. We're humans. We will struggle with selfishness while we are in these incredibly good looking, brilliant human bodies. Right? We're going to struggle with selfishness. I love the fact that scripture tells us this took place over a 23 day period of time. The stirring of the people, the confronting of God, the God being in public. All of that took place over time. So here, let me sum up for you. How can I sum up? I can sum up this entire chapter in four basic things. Ready? Number one, God's people have returned from exile and they earn that they earned through disobedience. Number two, they return to the land or return to the land. God's people prioritize the rebuilding of their own lives above his temple. Number three, God corrects his people, holding back their fruitfulness, allowing them to be selfishly unsatisfied. That is a judgment all by itself, letting you be selfishly unsatisfied by your own desires. And then four, God's people have returned from exile. And then four, God calls his people to prioritize his temple over their own pleasures and promises to bless their efforts. That's the summation of chapter four. So now, let me flip that and how do we relate to that? How does that apply to you and I today? Number one, Christians have been called out of the exile of sin and selfishness to live loyal to Christ. You have been called to do that. If you are a Christian, he is not just your savior, he is your king. He deserves your loyalty. He expects your loyalty, period. You're not just saved from sin. You are saved for a kingdom. Don't separate the two. And that's why I said we could have a wonderful debate. Those of you who want to debate, salvation in the New Testament, is it all individual? Is it corporate? Is it a little of both? Is it more corporate than individual? We can have that debate. But what we're not going to debate is that if you are a Christian, you are called out of the exile of sin and selfishness to live loyal to Christ. Number two, like Israel, I would say we often prioritize our own lives and our pursuits over God's place. And here's where I got to make the flip. I have heard plenty of Haggai sermons that end in a call to give for some sort of reward. I have heard plenty of Haggai sermons that end in a call to give for some sort of financial thing in the church, right? Because what was Haggai getting them to do? Prioritize God's house over their own homes. I cannot teach this that way. And here's the real big problem. The building that you and I are currently sitting in and all of you joining us online, the screens that you're watching us on, are no longer the temple of God. Where is the temple of God now? It's you. It's you. That doesn't mean we shouldn't give. That doesn't mean in a minute I'm not going to talk to you about the roof project and how we're so blessed and we need to give to that. But there's no way, literally, on God's green earth that I'm going to teach this passage and let you walk out of here believing that you have to give to the church to prioritize God's temple in our dispensation, in our covenant relationship with God. Because this building is not God's temple. This building is God's property. It's God's kingdom, right? We're in one small ambassadorship of the kingdom of Jesus. But when we talk about prioritizing God's temple for you and I today, that temple is your heart. That temple, and here's where it gets harder, Jim. I've got to get you to prioritize God in your will, in your choices, in your volitional efforts, your decisions, your thoughts. Your motivations, your relationship. And now you're saying, Pastor, can I just give to the church? Isn't that easier? So I refuse to mis-teach the chapter. But I think it sticks a lot harder. It's a lot sharper when you realize that in order to apply God's desire for loyalty and priority to us as the New Testament church, I can't apply it to the building. I have to apply it to your lifestyle. Are you loyal to God's will? Are you loyal to God's will? Do you send God's desire for loyalty and priority to us as the New Testament church? I can't apply it to the building. I have to apply it to your lifestyle. Are you loyal? Do you prioritize God in your lifestyle? Not, do you prioritize giving to our building? I'm going to ask you to do that later. Number 3. God still corrects his people and can hold back our fruitfulness, 벩 Guangzhi and מג Now the Hold back our fruitfulness, allowing us to be selfishly unsatisfied. If we focus our lives on that which we consume, he absolutely can be justified to allowing you to be consumed by your own dissatisfaction, your unsatisfactoriness. And finally number four, God calls us to prioritize our loyalty to Him over our own pursuit of pleasure, over your own house, over your own job, over your own car. God expects priority in loyalty. So worship team, I'm going to ask you guys to come up. I'm going to roll into our takeaway and then we're going to collect our connect cards. Here it is. Here's your take this morning. Christians need to prioritize loyalty to Jesus over the selfish distractions of life that ultimately do not satisfy. Christians need to prioritize loyalty to Jesus over the selfish distractions of life that ultimately do not satisfy.