Let's go ahead and pray together. Yes, Lord the battle indeed is yours, oh God. So we give all our fights to you, God, within and without. We give all our fights to you, all the things that cause us to scratch our heads. We give to you, oh God, fight for us. Be God among us. Be God in the lives of your people, those who struggle today, those who come with sickness and difficulty and struggle in their homes, in relationships. Be with them, oh God. Be with each one of us. You know what each one of us deals with. We give all that to you, God. Fight on behalf of your people. We pray in Jesus' name, amen. So well good morning and welcome to Catalyst. I love it. Everybody's awake today. That's so awesome. Thank you so much worship team. That was so fantastic. Had a great time. Welcome. My name is Bill. If I have not met you personally, thank you for being a part of our family. If you're worshiping with us on campus or you're joining us online, you're part of the Catalyst community. And here in the Catalyst community, we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change. Loving people to life change. So if you're listening to this message, I need you to know two things. Number one, this church family loves you. But number two, we love you enough that we want to challenge you. We don't want to leave you right where we want to grow our relationship with Jesus. And so one of the ways we grow in our relationship with Jesus is by studying his word together. You just saw the really cool trailer video that Pastor Paul put together. I'm going to begin a brand new teaching series this week entitled the Hall of Heroes. I think it's super important that as a group of Christians, we take the time to learn about some of the fantastic stories and narratives of the biblical characters of the Bible. So here is the key thought that is going to go through all of this series. The life lessons of biblical characters are still relevant for us today. The life lessons of the biblical characters are still relevant for us today. So this is one of those series where each week we're going to look at a different hero. We're going to look at a different biblical character. We're going to look at maybe a little bit larger sections of scripture than we've done in the past. You know, my last few messages we've really honed in. We've really dug deep on only a few things. But in order to really see a character story, you kind of have to zoom that telephoto lens back a little bit. So this morning we're going to kick off the series with Hall of Heroes, Moses. I want to look at the story of Moses. So if you brought your Bibles with you this morning, turn or tap to the book of Exodus. We're going to be looking at select verses from chapters one all the way through chapter three. We're going to look at a somewhat larger section of the book of Moses. Now, just to give you a little back story while you're turning there, the Exodus from Egypt mentioned in the Bible is a historical event. It occurred somewhere between 1446 BC and 1226 BC. So just to put that in a frame of reference, what year is it now? There we go. It wasn't 1226 BC. There we go. It wasn't a trick question. It totally is. It totally is 2022. So if it's 2022 now and we're talking about something that happened 1446 years before year number one, you add those two numbers together and we are talking about a man who lived sometime between 3200 and up to 3500 years ago. So we're going back a far ways in time. Call Doc Brown, get the DeLorean, because we're going 3500 years in to the past to look at this character of Moses. So here's the first thing I'd like you to learn about Moses this morning. The story of Moses begins with promise. Let's look at Exodus chapter one verses one through five. I'll be reading them to you this morning because a couple of them are really, really big. So this is Exodus. That was loud. Exodus chapter one verses one through five. The book starts out this way. These are the names of the sons of Israel who went to Egypt with Jacob, each with his family. Reuben, Simeon, Levi and Judah, Issachar, Zebulun and Benjamin, Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher. The descendants of Jacob numbered 70 in all. Joseph was already in Egypt. Now this is the opener to the book of Exodus. The book of Exodus is the second book of the Bible. What's the one that comes before that? Genesis. You're right. The story of Genesis begins at the very moment of creation and the book of Genesis ends with the epic story of Joseph, a young boy sold into slavery when he was a child. He ultimately rise through the ranks to become the second most powerful person in all of Egypt and through the life of Joseph, his entire family was taken from a famine. That's how the book of Genesis ends. What I want you to see here is how the book of Exodus dovetails with the end of the book of Genesis. Look, these are the names of the sons of Israel. Stop. Who's Israel? Who's Israel and why does he have sons? See these are just simple Bible study questions when you come across a character. Who is that? Are they mentioned anywhere else in the Bible? Is there any significance to this name Israel? Yeah, there's totally a significance. Not just to the name Israel, but to the idea that Israel had sons. So to understand where the book of Genesis begins, you have to first understand where the book of Exodus begins. You have to understand the foundation that was laid in Genesis. Genesis chapter 12. God selects a man named Abram. He makes a promise and he makes a covenant with him and he says, I will be your God. You will be my people. Your descendants will be like the sand on the seashore, the stars in the sky. I will bless those who bless you. I will curse those who curse you. From you will come a mighty nation. We now know that as the Abrahamic covenant. That's what it's called theologically. God makes a promise to this one man and says, you're going to be the father of a great nation. Then Abraham has a son named Isaac. Isaac has a son named Jacob and then Jacob has 12 sons who are named right here in these opening five verses. So do you see how before we can even get into the book of Exodus, it links us to the history that comes out of the book of Genesis. So Exodus is the continuation of the promise and that's why I said the story of Moses begins with promise. Here's what's neat. This promise isn't given to Moses. This promise is given to Abram who changed his name to Abraham. That's right. Then the Abrahamic covenant is repeated to his son Isaac and it is repeated again to his son Jacob and the book of Genesis ends with Jacob praying over each of his 12 sons and blessing them as the father of tribes. So the promise may have been given to a man but it was always intended for a nation. In the book of Exodus we will see what happens to that nation and how God redeems that nation but you can't go into the book of Exodus without remembering that Moses's story is laid on a foundation that God makes promises to his people and he rescues them and he protects them. See this all happened in Genesis when God he protected Jacob from Laban, he protected Isaac. I mean there are so many instances where God speaks to his people, he loves them, he protects them all in Genesis. I would argue as a pastor, as somebody who's responsible to help us learn the Bible, you don't get good theology in the rest of the 65 books of the Bible unless you get what God laid down in Genesis. Sin, the solution for sin, covenant promises, God's love in the midst of human failure, all of that happens in Genesis. So the story of Moses isn't beginning at Moses. Moses is a continuing chapter of the story of God's relationship with his people and the story of Moses begins with the promise that God would make a nation. Now how did I get that? Let me read this again. These are the names of the sons of Israel, meaning the focus is on where the sons of Israel and what happens to them and he names off all the 12 tribes, well he names off all the 12 brothers, technically Joseph's half sons each create half tribes of Manasseh and Ephraim and that's fun. But I want you to see that Moses' story, Moses is inserted into the story of God, not the other way around, right? God's relationship with mankind doesn't start with Moses. That doesn't mean God's not going to do amazing things through the story of Moses. Here's the second thing I want you to understand about the story of Moses. Not only is the story beginning with promise but the setting is one of persecution. Now let's still stay in Exodus chapter 1 but let's look at verses 8 through 14. Then a new king to whom Joseph meant nothing came to power in Egypt. Look, he said to his people, the Israelites have become too far numerous for us. Come we must deal shrewdly with them or they will become even more numerous and if war breaks out we'll join our enemies, fight against us and leave the country. So they put slave masters over them to oppress them with forced labor and they built python and rameses to store as store cities for pharaoh. But the more they were oppressed, the more they multiplied and spread. So the Egyptians came to dread the Israelites and worked them ruthlessly. They made their lives bitter with harsh labor in brick and mortar and with all kinds of work in the fields. In all their harsh labor the Egyptians worked them ruthlessly. Now I want you to notice something very important that starts here in verse 8. Then a new king to whom Joseph meant nothing. Then a new pharaoh who knew not Joseph. So what is that referring to? Well again we've got to go back to the end of the book of Genesis. The story of Joseph is an epically amazing story. Like it would take me weeks to show you the glory of God through the story of Joseph. But the short version is at age 17 Joseph has a little bit of an ego problem. Doesn't mean he does not call by God and those of you know the story. Doesn't mean those dreams weren't from God. But Joseph's got an ego and a communication problem and he ticks off his 11 older brothers and they sell him into slavery. Little did they know that what they meant for evil God used for good. They send him into Egypt. He becomes a slave. He's then wrongfully accused of rape. He's then sent to prison. In the prison he's placed in charge of other prisoners. And then along comes pharaoh and he has a dream sent by God himself by the way. So don't think that God can't give dreams to non-covenant or non-safe people because he did it to pharaoh. God gave pharaoh a dream what would happen in the future and only Joseph was in the right place at the right time to interpret that dream. And that puts Joseph in charge that ultimately saves the entire then nation of Israel is just Jacob's family. Jacob his sons and his grandsons are all saved because 13 years ago. So he's 17 when he's sent in and he's a minimum of 13 years in Egypt. So at age 30 he now looks walks and talks like an Egyptian and his brothers don't recognize him. And he saves them from a famine. God provided 13 years in the past through a sinful act in order to save his people. That's the that's the cliff notes version of the story of Joseph. But then a new king comes who didn't know Joseph. A new king who didn't remember God speaking to his predecessors. Didn't remember Joseph being able to interpret the dream that no other magician or soothsayer in the entire nation of Egypt could. This new king doesn't know anything about Jacob. Now if you know the end of the story of Genesis Egyptians don't like shepherds. I want you to know that Egyptians think that shepherds are dirty ugly nasty people. So they move Jacob and his family to the land of Goshen. And the land of Goshen is like the back 40. That's what it's like. The land of Goshen is like the Egyptian back 40. It was pasture land. There's lots of grass and hills and those of you who like bear grills you would have loved Goshen. Okay it's out there in the sticks. But they also moved them to a land that was away from the regular Egyptian metropolis because they didn't want to really have anything to do with these people. Because Joseph saved the lives of everyone in Egypt. They gave them the land of Goshen. Here's what I want you to understand theologically that happens. The land of Goshen by many scholars is called the Egyptian incubator. See while Jacob and his brothers lived in the land of Goshen they never had to defend their own borders. Why? Because no one's stupid enough to attack the largest military power of the day which is Egypt. No one's dumb enough to come and try to roll up on Egypt because Egypt is the largest money power of its day economic strength largest military power of its day military strength. So God takes his chosen people and puts them into this land that's completely protected. And so they don't have to worry about defending themselves. They don't have to worry about what they're going to eat because God moved them to this lush back 40 that the Egyptians didn't want. But then comes a king who forgot all that. Then comes a king who didn't know everything I just said or intentionally forgot because the Egyptian kings considered themselves gods. Considered themselves powerful. I want you to look at what this new pharaoh says. He says look the Israelites have become far too numerous. Go back what was the promise? Promise was your seed will become a mighty nation. That means your children be have lots of babies. New international bill version. If I can just break it down for you. The original promise to Abram was that your descendants will become more numerous. What does that mean? Your descendants are going to have lots of babies. Lhasa Lhasa. That's a theological term. Lhasa. Lots of babies. Well how did God do that? He did that through the Egyptian incubator. He used the power and might of the land of Egypt to protect his children. But there was always a time because if you also remember the Abrahamic covenant. God said Abraham look to the north the south east and the west. This land I am giving to you and your descendants. They won't have it now. They're not going to have it yet. It's not ready for them. But I'm going to give them this land. So when God moved the children of Israel into the Egyptian incubator. The plan was always that they would come home. The plan was always that they would multiply and then come back to the land. This is how God works out that plan. Look this is a pharaoh. Says to his people the Israelites have become far too numerous. Come we must deal shrewdly with them or they will become even more numerous and if war breaks out they will join our enemies. What is pharaoh concerned about? Military might. He's concerned about military power. You know what he forgot from the lesson of Joseph? You can't feed the army. The army don't fight. God moved the children of Israel into Egypt with a famine. He used a negative circumstance to push them into Egypt and now God is going to use another negative circumstance to push them back out of Egypt and he's using the sinful heart of pharaoh here. So they put slave masters over them, oppress them, force labor. He made their lives bitter. Anybody thinking of the prince of Egypt or Charlton Heston's the 10 Commandments? All right depending on which generation. I'm a prince of Egypt fan. I think the music was great. This is not a good time. That does not mean God's not working. I want to stress that. The setting for the story of Moses begins with one of persecution but if you look through the whole of scripture what you will see is that God can and does use negative circumstance to accomplish his will. That's how the entire book of Genesis ends right. Joseph's brothers are all jealous of him. They're ticked off rather than kill him. They sell him into slavery and then through that negative God brings a positive into the story of Moses. Moses is born at a time where Israel, I mean Egypt is literally killing the babies of the Israelites. This is the situation into which Moses is born. He didn't choose it. Moses didn't turn to God and go, God you know what I want? I want to be born into a nation of genocide. That's the situation. I want to be born into a nation of genocide. That sounds like an amazing calling. I don't know that anyone would willingly choose that but I want you to see as much as we and here's the cool thing about a series like this. We often revere the biblical characters and I think we should. God did amazing things through them but don't forget that Moses is a human man. Moses is not half God. He's not a demigod. He's not God incarnate like Jesus in the New Testament. Moses is a dude. He's a dude who lived between 3200 and 3500 years ago but he's still a dude. That means he was born as a baby and he was born as a baby in a time when babies were being killed because Egypt was trying to bring down the population growth of the nation of Israel. Why? Because God promised them you're gonna have lots of babies. Gonna make you a mighty nation. So into this story Egypt crushes because up until this point Israel was living in Egypt but kind of like on their own reservation. Right? There wasn't a lot of penalties that y'all keep to yourselves. You know much love. We appreciate you saving my daddy's daddy. Y'all live over there. We stay over her and we'd be fine and then all of a sudden Egypt goes yeah that's not good enough anymore. No more status quo enslave the entire nation and it's into this persecution and promise that Moses is born. Here's the next thing I need you to see. The start of Moses's journey is providential. The start of Moses's journey. Let's take now let's turn to Exodus chapter 2. I want to look at verses 1 through 10. So Exodus chapter 2 verses 1 through 10. Now a man of the tribe of Levi married to a levi woman and she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. When she saw that he was a fine child she hid him for three months but when she could hide him no longer she got a papyrus basket for him and coated it with tar and pitch. She then placed the child in it and put it among the reeds along the bank of the Nile. His sister stood at a distance to see what would happen to him. Then Pharaoh's daughter went down to the Nile to bathe and her attendants were walking along the riverbank. She saw the basket among the reeds and sent her female slaves to get it. She opened it and saw the baby. He was crying and she felt sorry for him. This is one of the Hebrew babies she said. Then his sister asked Pharaoh's daughter shall I go and get one of the Hebrew women to nurse the baby for you? Yes go she answered. So the world went and got the baby's mother. Pharaoh's daughter said to her take this baby and nurse him for me and I will pay you. So the woman took the baby and nursed him. When the child grew older she took him to Pharaoh's daughter and he became her son. She named him Moses saying I drew him out of the water. This is this is a massively providential moment in the life of Moses. There's so much beauty that happens here. Watch this. First a man of the tribe of Levi married a Levite woman. Stop. Right. We now know what does the tribe of Levi do in the law of God. They're the priests. Now at the time at which this book was written these events had already happened. Right. Who received the Pentateuch? The first five books. Moses did. Where? On Mount Sinai. When? After the Exodus. So Moses is writing this down but he's writing this down after all these events had happened. I don't know about you but I do not remember the first three months of my life. I don't remember that first 90 day period of time. But Miriam was alive. His mother was alive. His brother Aaron was alive. They're going to remember that time and God is telling him this is what happened. So when we see that scripture says now a man from the tribe of Levi married a Levite woman what are you seeing? This is basically priestly calling squared. Right. It's a father who's a priest or from the tribe who would become the priests and a mother from the tribe who would become the priests. Do you know there's another character in the New Testament who's born from a father and a mother who are both Levites? Anybody want to take a guess? Somebody said it. Nope. Not Jesus. John the Baptist who I was thinking of. Yeah. John the Baptist is born from both of those. It's amazing how God sets this up. So Moses is born to the family that would become the priests. His mother hides him for 90 days and then has to do the unthinkable. Has to place her son into the reeds in the Nile and hope for his deliverance. Now could have gone the other way. Crocodile could have had a Hebrew snack pack and you'd be done. So many babies were being killed at this time. It would have just been one more baby being killed. One more baby tossed into the Nile and if the claim that the Egyptians killed the babies by tossing them into the Nile is true then she is literally handing her son over for death. That's literally what she's doing with Moses and yet God has a plan in this handing her son over for death. Miriam who is Moses's older sister later on if you keep reading in the Pentateuch Miriam becomes the first prophetess of the nation of Israel. She actually leads the nation in worship on the way out. So Moses is a prophet. Aaron is the priest and Miriam is the prophetess. They're the perfect three-part sibling ministry trio of the Bible. But here in this story Miriam is following along over her baby brother and Miriam at the in my moment Miriam is a major character here. Miriam is a member of a class a class of humans that are owned by another class of humans. She is a slave child. She's got like she's not only a slave child she's a female slave child. 3500 years ago in ancient Egypt her life was worth nil and yet she had the courage to step up and talk to the daughter of the king and the daughter of the king had compassion as her father is murdering an entire generation of babies. This young woman says oh this is one name Hebrew babies and then out of nowhere Miriam says do you want me to find somebody to take care of this baby for you? Yeah I want to take care of this bit. Like where does that idea come from? You got two choices. You can either call it an Egyptian coincidence or you can call it a godly providence. If you want my vote I'm over here. I think God is doing something. So Miriam comes to the princess and she says would you like me to find someone to take care of this for you? And who does the baby return to? Moses's own mama who then is protected by the royal seal of the Egyptian family and is paid which means Moses mama's no longer making bricks. She's no longer serving as a slave. She is now employed by the royal house of Egypt to raise Moses. Now my best guess based on my research she raises Moses either to the age of seven, nine, or twelve. Literally I spent like a bunch of time trying to figure this out. Scholars debate what the appropriate age in Egyptian culture would have been. Definitely he has to be weaned off of breast milk. He has to be potty trained and he has to be taught manners. Those are three things that everyone agrees on before he could transition into Egyptian culture as a young man. He was a young man he would need to have those. In Hebrew culture there was a process by which a young male would be weaned away from his mother and be viewed as a young man. There is still a residual of that in our modern day culture. We call it a bar mitzvah. That's right when a Jewish male turns 12 they are then transitioned from a childhood stage to a young man stage. Some scholars want to say that's exactly how the Egyptians did it. I think maybe you're reading a little bit of contemporary view back into history the Egyptians could have done it differently. But the cool part of this story is through God's providential nature right we've seen God's providence work in Genesis. There's no reason it can't work in in Exodus. Moses's own mother is saved from the ills of slavery and raises her son and is paid to raise her son and then brings this child back to the princess and then he becomes a prince of Egypt. He is raised as a slave and risen to the rank of prince. In the very same way that just a few chapters before this Joseph was raised as a Hebrew sold to a slave and elevated to a prince. God's making a re-trip on the same really cool story that a slave can become a prince but that's not where the story of Moses ends. So now we go forward again a stumble by Moses leads to his preparation. A stumble by Moses leads to his preparation. Now let's continue in chapter two and let's look at verses 11 to 22. This one's a little long. Then one day after Moses had grown up so now childhood Moses is done we are now the adult prince of Egypt Moses. He went out to where his own people were and watched them at their hard labor. I gotta point this out who wrote the book of Exodus? Moses did. Moses is writing his own firsthand account of his ministry. Don't miss that. It's always important to remember who wrote what books of scripture. At this point God is not relaying details that he wouldn't remember. Moses would absolutely have his own human memory of these events as he's guided by the Holy Spirit. He saw the Egyptian beating Hebrew one of his own people looking this way and that seeing no one he killed the Egyptian and hid him in the sand stealthy. The next day he went out and saw two Hebrews fighting. He asked the one in the wrong why are you fighting or why are you hitting your fellow Hebrew? The man said who's made you ruler and judge over us? Are you thinking are you thinking of killing me as you kill the Egyptian? So Moses was afraid and thought what I did must have become known and indeed it did. When Pharaoh heard of this he tried to kill Moses but Moses fled from Pharaoh and went to live in Midian where he sat down by a well. Now a priest of Midian had seven daughters. They came to draw water and fill the troughs to water their father's flock. Some shepherds came along and drove them away but Moses got up and came to their rescue and watered the flock. Then the girls returned to reuil their father and asked them why have you returned so early today? They answered an Egyptian rescued us from the shepherds he even drew water for us and watered the flock. Where is he? Reuel asked his daughters. Why did you leave him? Exactly invite him to have something to eat. Moses agreed to stay with the man who gave his daughter Zipporah to Moses in marriage. Zipporah gave birth to a son and Moses named him Gershom saying I have become a foreigner in a foreign land. Do you notice the theme that I just read? Moses has an internal desire to be a protector. The reason he was kicked out of Egypt or the reason he fled Egypt was because internally there was something in him that saw the injustice that was being done and said I gotta act. Then he flees Egypt becomes basically a wandering lost man. He ends up in Midian and he comes across another moment of injustice. Now I would say that maybe you could confront injustice without killing people on a regular basis. You know I'm not saying that Moses's actions of killing the Egyptian were justified. What I am saying is that that internal desire to be a protector like as a man I get that. Like every mama bear who's ever looked after her children. We get that. Moses's internal desire to be a protector is part of who he is. He lacked a little bit of wisdom because had he not killed the Hebrew slave he never would have had to leave Egypt. And yet again through his stumble, through his failure, maybe even his hotheadedness, God moves him somewhere that that insane that same internal desire for protection now provides him a new home. So just in these 11 verses I watch Moses and his protective instincts cost him the palace at Egypt and I watch Moses and his protective instincts purchase for him a wife, a daughter, and an entirely new family. Now timeline wise Moses probably was about 40 years old when he left Egypt. He's also going to spend about 40 years in Midian with Zipporah and Jethro being a shepherd. By the time he is called back to Egypt Moses is a different man. And I want to point that out because I think a lot of times we look at the end result right? The most in fact even the image that that pastor Paul has here in the graphic where it's Moses standing at the Red Sea. That's the big monumentous moment in the Moses story but that's not the whole Moses story. Like I hope I don't shock anybody when I tell you this but I didn't want to be a pastor. When I was coming up as a young man I was a musician and a singer. I wanted to be a rock star. Like why would I want to be a pastor? That's no fun. Sex, drugs, and rock and roll sounds way cooler. That sounds like a way cooler lifestyle. Let's go do that. You know? God had to temper my youth and teach me that following my calling is my job. I wasn't born in a monastery. I didn't grow up singing what a mighty God we serve. I grew up singing MC Hammer and Vanilla Ice. Like that was my childhood. I just dated myself at a very specific time. I know that. I grew up with MC Hammer and Vanilla Ice. They were the prophets of my childhood. So maybe more than some of you, I totally get this idea that I can make a stumble that ends me falling into a season of preparation. I can make a stumble that ends up leading me to where God wants me to be even though I didn't know about it. Even though I didn't get it at the time. Now looking back, again, hindsight is always 20-20, right? Of course you look back at your history and you could totally see God working. Sometimes we forget that God's working in our midst. We just don't understand it yet. We don't see it yet. We don't see what he's doing because you're not looking through the crystal clear lens of the rear view. You're still looking out through the windshield as it comes at you moment by moment. Moses's stumble was ultimately his calling, right? What's the whole story of Moses? Beginning to end, he is a protector, a redeemer, and a deliverer. He tried to get his calling a little early and it cost him a lot. I could argue the same with Joseph. Joseph was a dream interpreter. But when he interprets the dream a little early, what happens? His brothers get really ticked off and they send him to Egypt. Your calling doesn't change, but it does require timing in order to get right. So here's the last thing I want to tell you about Moses. The schedule for Moses came at the proper time. Let's skip over to Exodus chapter three. Schedule, not the calling, not the man, not the internal abilities, not God. The schedule for Moses came at the proper time. This is Exodus chapter three, starting in verse one. Now, when Moses was tending the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, isn't that interesting? His father was from a priestly line, his mother was from a priestly line, and his father-in-law is also a priest. There was an angel of the Lord appeared to him in flames of fire from within a bush. Moses saw that the bush was on fire and it did not burn up. So Moses thought, I will go over and see this strange sight. Why is the bush not burn up? I got to say, I would probably, Anthony, I'd do the same thing. If I saw a burning bush that ended up not being consumed by the fire. Now, what does that tell you? What is the nature of fire? The nature of fire is, you and I know it, is destructive. It consumes and converts into ash and charcoal and everything else. This fire here does not do that. So what does that mean? The fire itself is of a different nature, of a different kind. I would argue that this is the fire of the glory of God, not the fire that you and I could start in our campfires. I will go over and see. When the Lord saw he had gone over, God called to him from within the bush, Moses. And Moses said, here I am. Do not come any closer, God said. Take off your sandals for the place where you are standing is holy ground. What's the only thing in creation that can make ground holy? God's presence. Correct. So this is telling us in context, God's presence is in the bush. That's another reason why the fire that is seen is the glory of God and not regular fire, right? Because God is now making the ground where the bush is at holy. Then he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. Now we're linking to the promises of Genesis. At this, Moses hid his face because he was afraid to look at God. The Lord said, I have indeed seen the misery of my people in Egypt. I have heard them crying out because of their slave drivers and I am concerned about their suffering. So I have come down to rescue them from the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them out of the land into a good and spacious land flowing with milk and honey. The home of the Canaanites, Hibites, Amorites, Parasites, or excuse me, Hittites, Amorites, Parasites, Hibites, and Jebusites. I've taught Joshua a couple of times so I had to learn them all. And now the cry of Israel has reached me and I have seen the way the Egyptians are oppressing them. So now go. Those three words. So now go. That's the key hinge point in this passage. I've seen it. I'm going to do this. So now it's time for you to go. I am sending you to Pharaoh to bring my people, the Israelites, out of Egypt. But Moses said to God, who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the Israelites out of Egypt? And God said, I will be with you and this will be a sign that it is I who sent you. When you brought the people out of Egypt, you will worship God on this mountain. So what mountain is he standing on? Sinai. Could be Mount Moriah because Sinai is where the things are received, but I'm with you. When you have brought the people, you will worship God on this mountain. Moses said, suppose I go to the Israelites. Look, I get this part. Suppose I go there and they say, who has sent you? What is your name? Then you will say, I am who I am. I am has sent me to you. Say to the Israelites, the Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob has sent me. This is my name forever. The name you shall call me from generation to generation. God calls Moses from the burning bush to fulfill a promise that he told Abram about 400 years into the past. If you go look in Genesis, I want to say it's 14 or 15 in the book of Genesis. God tells Abraham during Abraham's lifetime, hey listen, your people are going to be held captive for 400 years. After 400 years, I am going to redeem them and bring them back to this land. God told Abraham during his lifetime that Moses would be, didn't tell him the name Moses, but told him your children will be taken captive, held in a foreign land, and then I am going to go get them. Now why do I call this season, this second 40 years, Moses's time of preparation? I could argue that being raised in the royal household of Egypt, Moses would understand Egyptian protocol. Remember I told you that Egyptians really hate shepherds. They're dirty. A shepherd would have never made it to talking to Pharaoh. They're too dirty to allow into his presence. In order to send someone to go redeem Israel, God needed a shepherd who could walk like a king, walk like a prince. God needed someone who knew what it meant to shepherd his people because the Israelites don't want to follow an Egyptian because the Egyptians are their oppressors. So do you see how Moses needed to be both the prince of Egypt and the shepherd of Jehovah? He had to be both. His providential preparation was done in two halves. The first half of the story, I should say two-thirds because the final third is the redeemer. So the first third of Moses's story, he's raised as a baby, as a prince of Egypt. He would have learned how to speak, read, write Egyptian. He would have learned proper court protocols because he would have to be there with his mother who was a princess of Egypt. So Moses would be intimately informed about how the Egyptian house went. But he also needed to understand life as a shepherd. He needed to understand who his people are and the calling that God had placed on the Egyptian or on the Israelites. So God uses Moses's protective instincts but a little bit of his lack of self control. I get that. And he moves him into the land of Midian and for the next 40 years, God allows him to grow as a shepherd to understand how protection is in line, how violence can be in line with protection. Nobody faults the shepherd for hurting the wolf. You fault the shepherd when he hurts the sheep. Why? Because the shepherd is a protector. Why do shepherds carry sticks? Number one, it's you know the shepherd crook, the hook. You know what the hook's for? It's for pulling sheep out of water. Why? Because sheep are full of wool, right? What happens when wool gets wet? It's crazy heavy. The shepherd's crook is the hook part of it is used to reach down and pull a sheep out of moving water. Because the sheep aren't smart enough to know that I'm, I could get wet and I could get a little heavy and then I could drown, right? So the shepherd, the crook end of it is to pull the sheep out of water. You know what the rest of the stick is for? For beating the mess out of the wolf when he comes around. It is a protective and offensive weapon. That's what Moses was. Moses needed to walk into Egypt to pull the sheep out but have a big enough stick to smack the Egyptians with. He had to be both. And here we can see that at, if Moses had, Moses did try to do the right thing when he killed the Egyptian servant at 40. But he didn't understand how to be a protector. How to be violent, how to be a violent protector. Doesn't that sound like a contradiction in terms nowadays? How to be a violent protector? And yet that's exactly what our police officers have to do, right? And just last week, last Thursday, there was a shooting at a youth group meeting in I think Iowa. I take your safety very seriously. You got to know that. As your shepherd, I'll carry the biggest stick possible to keep every single man, woman, and child who sets foot on this campus safe. Because that's my job. Nobody faults the shepherd for hurting the wolf if it's your protecting shepherd. Now, if you're hurting the wolf just to hurt people, you got problems, bro. We got to pray about that. People shouldn't hurt people for no reason. But Moses's preparation had to be completed at the right time in order for him to do what God wanted him to do. That's the beginning of the story of Moses. I probably could sit here for another 30 minutes to go through the rest of it. But we have a meeting after church and I'm sure everybody wants lunch. So let me give you the takeaway. How do I bring all of this to bear in a way that it applies to you? I've told you a great story. I've showed you the narrative. Now let's take a look at the takeaway. So here's the first thing I need you to know. I'm going to tell you a story. I need you to understand. You and I today have a promise from the Savior that he will return. Our story right now. You were born into a story standing on a promise. Every one of you who is a Christian, every one of you has given your life to Christ. Every one of you who is not a Christian, guess what? The promise has already been laid. Just like the promise to Abraham predated the birth of Moses. The promise of a returning Savior and Redeemer predates all of our natural birth. We were born into a story of a promise. Number two, we will face difficulty and trial in the meantime. Things will happen. You can quote me said Pastor Bill. Things will happen. Stuff will go down. That does not mean, don't forget number one, that just because stuff happens doesn't mean there's not a promise. Just because stuff happens doesn't mean there's not a Savior. Just because stuff happens doesn't mean God's not working. Remember, you can look back in the rear view mirror of your life and see how God was working. That means stuff is happening. God's still working. Here's number three. We often mistake God's providence for coincidence. I think this one is our biggest problem in the modern day America. Between a naturalistic view of evolution that tries to unwind the creative act of God making humanity to an anti-supernaturalism that just tries to deny God exists altogether. I think too many times we mistake coincidence for providence. Well, what happens if you do that? You miss the guiding hand of God in your life. When you mistake God's providence for mere coincidence, then you look, you shrug it off. You're like, ah, wow, that was weird. Okay, let's get a burger and you move on. Instead of asking yourself, wait a minute, that was either coincidence or providence. Is there a reason that I should consider it coincidence? Is there a reason that I should consider it providence? Have you ever given thought, I'm not going to give you a providence. Have you ever given thought to the reality that if God is real and he is working in your life, you just might have missed the last thing he did for you. Now, you could look back at me and say, well, of course, pastor, you're a pastor. You have to live guided by the will of God. Yes. Let me ask you a question. When Bill called me in, what was it, August of last year, and I hung up the phone. I had to ask myself this question. Is this providence or is this coincidence? Do I believe, because when we were living in Virginia, my wife and I had decided that I just love serving God. I'm not going to look for another job. If God wants me to go somewhere, he can send me. There's plenty of stories in the Bible where God did super cool stuff to send people somewhere. So, we literally said, we're just going to wait for some stranger to call us and tell us where to go. And in my mind... But do you understand how stupid that sounds? I'm just going to wait for some stranger who I've never met to call me from some church I've never heard of to ask me to come be the pastor in a state I've never been in. And if I told you that 6 months ago, you would be like, pastor's not eating his Wheaties. And yet that's exactly how I ended up here. A church I've never heard of and a man I've never met called me out of the blue for a job I didn't even know existed. And through circumstance... Again, you get two choices here. Now, yeah, you're going to argue with me and say, well, pastor, you work for God, of course. But are we all not equal as children of God? Because I could come back at you and say, it wasn't only Moses that walked out of Egypt. It was everybody. Right? Don't forget that big theological term. Everybody. The entire nation of Israel left Egypt, not just Moses. Everybody. That's right. When was the last time in your life you experienced the providential guiding of God? Because this is what I'm going to tell you. God is real. God is on the move. If you miss him, it could be because you mistook his providence for mere coincidence. But if we're working on it... If we're standing on a time of there's a promise and we know the difficulty will come, we need God's guidance. Now we take it to number four. God can and will use our mistakes to mature us. Right? Come on. Somebody here has experienced that, right? It can't just be me. It can't just be me stubbing my toe and going, oh, God, that's what you meant. Right? Have you ever done that? Have you ever walked right into that clear sliding glass door and gone, boom! Oh, not that way. Sorry, God. I know I'm the only person who makes mistakes. It's cool. I make a lot of them. Just ask my children. Don't ask them now because you'll give them to you right now. Don't ask them now. What was the last mistake that God allowed you to make to teach you a lesson? Because I can look at the story of Moses and see how he totally had a calling to be a protector. But he put his calling in the wrong timing without the right preparation and he failed miserably. And yet through that failure, God used his mistakes to mature him to be ready to serve him. Which brings me to number five. When the time is right, we must act. Now I can't tell you where you are in your walk with God. That's not my job. My job is ultimately to ask you to think about it. My job is to ask you to consider it and figure out where you are in your story with God. Are you at the very beginning? Are you still experiencing some persecution, some trial, some difficulty? Maybe you're at the teenage stage. You've got a calling, but you don't got the right temperament to do it right. Maybe you're in the maturation stage. God's giving you a whole new gift and skill set to compliment the calling that you could feel in your heart, but you don't feel ready. Or maybe you're at the burning bush stage and God's going, get on board. It's time to get to work. I think we all experienced this story. I've lived it, especially the providence part, man. I can't tell you how great it is to be able to stand here today and know that God led me to come here. It wasn't just a cool job that I wanted to take. So I'm going to ask that the worship team retake the stage, and I'm going to ask everybody to either pull out your phone or the connect card that's in front of you. So this is your time to re-engage in our service. A good sermon should be 70% education and 30% motivation. This is your chance to respond to the service today. So I'm going to ask if you are here and you're on campus, you can go ahead and scan that code right there. The same code is also at the very top of the handout that you were given. If you don't want to use your phone, please reach into the seat back in front of you and take out one of the physical connect cards. This is your chance to respond today. What is the next step that you need to take in your relationship with God? I told you at the very beginning of the service, I love you, but I'm not ready to leave you. I love where you're at, but I need you to get off that spot and take one step forward. What is the step that you are going to take? If you're joining us online, you're not off the hook just because I can't see you physically. I see you right there behind the camera. I want you to go to catalyst302.com slash connect. You can click the button that says I attended online, take you to the same exact connect card. What is your step today in your relationship with God? Where are you at in your story, your origin story of being a hero for the kingdom? We just saw Moses's origin story. We saw how God used him, how his failures became part of his preparation, how God's providence overtook coincidence. But there was also a moment where Moses had to step up and get it done. So as my ushers come forward this morning, this is your moment to step up. In a moment, I'm going to ask the worship team. They're going to lead us in a closing song and I want to collect. My watch is already going off. I know several of you are using the online connect card. Those of you who would like to use the paper connect card, our ushers are going to pass the baskets back and forth. I really want the collection of offering and cards to be something that's worshipful. It's not just a rote mechanism that we do every week. This is an act of worship that says God, I am giving this to you. I am committing this to you. I am ready to serve you. You've redeemed me and now it's my job to give back to you. So I want to pray. We're going to give God our tithes this morning, our offerings, and our commitments. And this is how you're part of the service. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you that you have called each of us to be a hero in your kingdom. You've called each of us to serve you. Holy Spirit, I pray that you would call us deeper in our relationship with you. Call us deeper to trust you in our finances. Call us deeper to get off our seated statures and get up on our feet and following your will and doing ministry for your name. Lord, thank you that you have redeemed us. We are yours in Jesus name.