Good morning. Good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being here, for being a part of our service. Whether you have joined us and worshiped with us on campus or whether you're worshiping with us online, thank you for being a part of our church family and our church community. Here at Catalyst we're about one thing and it's very simple. It's loving people to life change. That's right. Loving people to life change. While they finish getting all the tech worked out, one of the ways that we love people to life change is by studying God's word together. And so I want to ask you to do that with me this morning. We're going to continue our teaching series entitled The Hall of Heroes. In fact, today we will be concluding this series with maybe one of the biggest named heroes in the end of or in the back half of the Old Testament. But before I tell you who it is, in case you've already looked your hand out and you already know, don't spoil the surprise. Let me give you the key thought. This is what has streamed all of these messages together. The life lessons of biblical characters are still relevant for us today. The life lessons for biblical characters are still relevant. We need to remember as we read the words of Scripture, other than Jesus, I'm going to put Jesus in his own category, fully God, fully man, Messiah, Savior of the world. Yes, he stands alone. Other than Jesus, all of the other characters we read about in Scripture were human. Hopefully that doesn't catch anybody by surprise. They were all human. And as human beings, we experience emotion. We experience fear. We experience frustration. We go through trial. We have seasons of joy, seasons of happiness. Remember as you read your Bible that these are everyday people. These are people who have life struggles, who have challenges, who have struggle and need to find their faith in the midst of it. So today we're going to look at the story of Daniel. The story of Daniel. Not our worship leader Daniel. He's already amazing. We're going to find out why this Daniel is a hero. We're going to be looking at Daniel chapters one through five. No, I'm not going to read all five chapters. But we need to look at some select verses from all of them in order to really show you the beginning portrait of the book of Daniel. A couple things I want you to know about that as you're turning to Daniel chapter one. In fact, we can skip that preface. I don't need that one this morning. That was in my notes, but I'm not going to use it. So go forward. What's after that? This one right here. Setting. So I want you to understand the setting of the book of Daniel. Just like we need to understand the setting in the book of Esther. So in Genesis, God creates the world. Genesis 12. He chooses a man named Abraham. I'm going to make you the father of a mighty nation. The rest of the book of Genesis takes us through the patriarchs. You get to the book of Exodus. People are living in Egypt. Moses and that whole story redeems them from Egypt. 40 year wilderness wandering Joshua. Joshua leads the people into the promised land that God had promised Abraham. But now they get to live in it. After Joshua is the judges period. There's no king yet, but everybody kind of does their own thing. Then they say, I want to have a king like all the other kids have. And God gives the United Monarchy period. Who's the first king in the United Monarchy of Israel? Saul followed by David, followed by Solomon. Saul, David and Solomon. They're the only three kings in the Old Testament to rule over everybody. Then after that, they have the divided kingdom period. The tribes break off. Ten tribes break off to the north. They create the northern kingdom of Israel. Two tribes break off to the south, the southern kingdom of Judah. And they live as separate kingdoms until the period known as the exile. Right? So Esther took place in the exile period. God's people are not doing what he says. They're having an obedience problem. And he says, okay kiddos, it's time for you to go to time out. And he removes all of his children from the land for 70 years. So first the Assyrians come in and they defeat the northern kingdom of Israel. They take them away and then they take them away again. They bring them back to the city of Israel. Carry them away. About 120 years later, in comes the Assyrians. They take away. The Assyrians are defeated by the Babylonians. And then the Babylonians are defeated by the Persians. And that's when the Esther story happened. So those who were here last week, take Esther and I want you to rewind. About 100 and something years. Daniel takes place during the Babylonian period of the exile. So, God's people are still God's people. Yes? loves his children, yes? But sometimes we can love our children while they're in timeout. And that's where we're at. So, the Babylonian captivity of the Jews happens in 605 BC. 500 years after David reigned as king of Judah and give or take a hundred years before Esther becomes queen of Persia. So, everybody kind of track where we're at. This is probably the least explained part of the Old Testament. That's why I want you to understand this. As you read through your Bible and you learn about characters and stories and places, you know, I can't tell you that, you know, and then David went to Walmart. And then Abraham drove by the rofo, you know, I want you to sort of have a basic idea of how the Bible story takes place. So, the Babylonian captivity happened 605 BC. So, give or take 600 years before Jesus's birth. 500 years after David and a hundred years before Esther. So, we're in the Babylonian Empire. So, here's the first thing I want you to see. Daniel and three friends are taken captive to Babylon, right? Daniel and his three friends are taken captive. Let's take a look at Daniel chapter 1, the first seven verses. In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and besieged it. The Lord delivered Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand along with some of the articles of the temple of God. These he carried off to the temple of his God in Babylon, in Babylonia and put, and put in the treasure house of his God. So, let's just stop. No, no. Let's go back. Let's talk through this one and then we'll go forward. So, every time you see this in the third year of the reign of whatever, it sounds, I guess, a little silly to us today, but this is how they kept time. They kept time in the reign of. If I were to stop and tell you in January of 605 BC, right, see that's how you and I think of time today. We think of time in a singular linear scale. The way the Jews kept time was the number of years of reign of whoever was king. Now, if I told you in the second year of John F. Kennedy's presidency, doesn't your brain immediately go to that certain area of US history, give or take, right? If I were to say in the second year of George Washington's presidency, we just went a whole lot further back in time, but you get the general idea. So, Yochaiakim is king of Judah. That's the southern tribe. The northern tribes already been carried off. The southern tribe was a little bit more godly. Josiah, he had reforms. So, Judah gets to live in its land a little longer, but ultimately they still have an obedience problem. They still go into time out. Nebuchadnezzar is king of Babylon. He comes to Jerusalem and he besieged it. And then this sentence right here, and the Lord delivered Yochaiakim king of Judah into his hand. So, now let me ask you a question. Who is responsible for Judah going into captivity? God or Nebuchadnezzar? Correct. It is God because let's just think about it. God told Abraham, I'm gonna be your God. You're gonna be my peeps. I'm gonna give you this land. This is like the new international bill translated version, right? I'm gonna give you this land. If God gave the land to the Jews, no human power can take it away. But God can put his children in time out, right? Any parent ever had to take an electronic device away from your kid because they don't know how to listen? Don't raise your hand, but you can elbow your spouse, definitely. Right? Sometimes parents, we give good gifts to our children, but in order to teach them a lesson and help them develop the character we need them to have, sometimes we have to remove it for a time before we can give it back. That's God's relationship with Israel in the whole Old Testament. He is their father. He loves them. But when disobedient children are disobedient, it's not loving not to correct. So it is the Lord who delivers Yochaiakim into the hand of Babylon. It is God who says, all right kiddos, I've told you all the way back in Deuteronomy. Live obedient to me and you will be blessed. Disobey me and you will be cursed. If you didn't know that, that's in the book of Deuteronomy. There's obedience for blessing and there's disobedience as curses. He says it very clearly. I'm gonna give you this land, milk, honey, all these things. But if you do not obey me, I will take those blessings away. So it is God, and I want to be clear on this because when we get into Daniel in hostile culture, we sometimes forget it was God who allowed him to be there. That's why I want to harp on this now is so when we get there, you're not like, oh my gosh, how did Daniel end up in such dire straits? Because as a nation, God was being disobedient. Yochaiakim, along with, and look at this, along with some of the articles from the temple of God, God actually allows Babylon to plunder his own earthly temple. That doesn't give you, yeah, just wow that for a minute. That doesn't give you an idea of how dedicated God is to correcting his people's mistakes. They carry off articles from the temple and look, these he carried into the temple of his God in Babylonia and they put the treasures in the pagan temple. So God allows Nebuchadnezzar to bring in Babylon to defeat Judah, carry off God's people as slaves into a foreign land, and plunder the temple itself, which was in an in a Old Testament Jewish mindset, the temple is the very presence of God amongst his people. Of course, since we already had the Esther lesson, I don't need to belabor that. So now let's go forward again. Babylonia and put in the treasure house of his God. Then the king ordered Ashpenaz. That's probably not on the top of anybody's baby name list, but it's there. So the king ordered Ashpenaz, chief of his court officials, to bring into the king's service some of the Israelites from the royal family and nobility, young men without any physical defect, handsome, showing aptitude for every kind of learning, well informed, quick to understand and qualified to serve in the king's palace. He was to teach them the language and literature of the Babylonians. The king assigned them a daily amount of food and wine from the king's table. So now we start seeing the portrait of Daniel being moved into a foreign land. Now just remember, we're in Old Testament times, so they have to live according to the Mosaic law. That's gonna come really in handy. Just take, grab that, put a pin like right on your shoulder, just hold that. So we've carried off, we've plundered the house, then king orders Ashpenaz, one of his royal servants, this is what they do. They take the people from the royal family and the nobility. You know why? Well number one, the royal family and the nobility would have been the more high educated class. So if I'm gonna take somebody and I'm gonna take them to like Babylonian culture school, I want people who already have an aptitude for learning. But the other reason is this, if I take all of the royal family and all of the nobles, culturally I am suppressing your culture, right? I am suppressing your culture in order to make it part of my culture. And what am I going to do? I'm going to do that by educating you into my system, right? So I'm gonna take everybody and keep in mind these are also, you know, ladies don't look like these guys are good-looking, okay? These guys are on the menu, you know? They're good, well-informed, quick to understand, and qualified to serve in the king's palace. He was to teach them language and literature of the Babylonians and assign them a daily amount of food and wine from the king's table. So what are the two ways in which Babylon is trying to influence Daniel's culture? They're trying to re-educate into a new way of thinking and they're gonna give you all of the trappings, the food, the yumminess, the wine, the delectable delicious, I know it's lunch time, delectable delicious goodies, right? I'm gonna bribe you with the best of my best but I'm going to re-educate you into thinking my way, right? You see that? So it's a two-handed approach and this is how the Babylonians treated everybody. So I don't want you to think that that God's children are getting treated any more special or any different than anyone else. This is what they did. Babylon comes in, they would defeat an entire group of people. So let's just say right over here, Rick, Kim, and my family, we're all from, I don't know, Louisiana because that's where my wife's from. So you guys are all from Louisiana but when Babylon comes in, I'm gonna take everybody from Louisiana and I'm gonna take them out of Louisiana and I'm gonna relocate them somewhere else. So I'm gonna relocate you guys. Rick, where you want to go? Pick a state. Too late. Oregon. Too late. See, you wish Florida but you got Oregon. So I'm gonna take everybody from Louisiana, I'm gonna relocate them to Oregon. Why? Because I removed you from your place of culture. I removed all of, I replaced all of your learning with my learning, replaced all of your food with my food. What am I doing? I am indoctrinating you into living in my society. But they do that with everybody. In order to move all the Louisianians to Oregon, what do you think I do with the Oregoners? Yep, they get to go to Florida. Sorry. So, and this is what Babylon does all over the ancient world is they relocate whole groups of people and re-educate them along the way so that their way of thinking, their gods, their language, their structure is only that stays. There, it's a plan for not just physical dominance but cultural dominance. So now we move forward again. There they were to be trained, look at that, for three years. For three whole years. Daniel and his three friends are going to a Babylon U and they're being fed the King's food and they're being slowly educated and even indoctrinated into Babylonian society. After that they were to enter the King's service. So I'm going to move you into my place. I know I talked about earlier but in a minute I'm going to give you new names. I'm going to give you new food. I'm going to give you new education, a new language, new literature, new history. Why? Because you're becoming part of me. You have to let go of that in order to become part of me. Among these who were chosen from Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. The chief official gave them new names to Daniel, Belteshazzar, Hananiah, here we go, Shadrach, Mishael, Meshach, and Azariah, Abetnego. Now you recognize who those jokers are, right? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abetnego. Rakshak and Benny, right? Those people who grew up with veggie tails. So at this point in the story, I have to remind you, who is allowing all of this to take place? Yes. Don't let go of that. Yes, Daniel is in a dire straits but what precipitated Daniel going into exile? Disobedience. Disobedience moved them there. So now we move forward. Let me show you the next thing. Daniel and his friends choose holiness over decadence. Daniel and his friends choose holiness over decadence. Still in Daniel 1, now we'll look at 8 to 17. But Daniel resolved not to defile himself with the royal food and wine, comma. Stop right there. Why? Why would the food be defiling to Daniel? Because Daniel still is holding on to the mosaic law. See, he is holding his faith and his culture on the inside. I don't know, this is not the moment to raise your hand in church. But how many people have an authority obedience problem? Okay? You just raise your hand on the inside. I was one of those kids growing up, teachers could never make me do stuff, right? Sit down. No. They could physically put me in the chair. You know what my brain's saying? I'm standing up on the inside. You might force my obedience but I will never relinquish my will. I'm a super hard-headed individual. Mel, that was the moment right there. Yeah. I'm that way. I will not relent my interior will. You cannot give... You cannot make me give it up. It's the one thing I'm allowed to hold on to that you can't take away from me. Daniel's the same way. Daniel's saying, nope. You're gonna put me in this King's table. You're gonna put me in Babylon University. But I'm not gonna eat that. Because my God has already told me that I shouldn't. And because I'm here, because my people are disobedient, let's not double down and put disobedience on top of disobedience. I'm going to choose to live obedient even while I am in the punishment or the timeout for my culture, for my entire nation's disobedience. So, he chooses not to defile himself with the royal food and wine. Keep in mind, this is the best of the best that Babylon has to offer. This is the same food that's fed to the king and the royal court. This is not the slop. This is not the gruel. This is the choice prime cut all day long. And he says, no. My God has said I shouldn't eat that. And he asked the chief official for permission not to defile himself in this way. Notice also the approach he takes. He doesn't walk into Babylonian culture and be like, no. I'm not eating that. God says it's not good for him. He didn't come from a place of authority. He came from a place of submission and he says, may I please have permission not to eat that food? Instead of, no. I'm not gonna eat that. It's evil. No. He doesn't. He takes a much calmer tack and he says, nope. I would like permission not to defile myself in this way. Now, God had caused the official to show favor and compassion to Daniel. Just like Esther a hundred years from now, right? God is still moving in the midst of his people. God causes him to have favor and show compassion on Daniel but the official told Daniel, I am afraid of my Lord the King who has assigned your food and drink. Why should he see you looking worse than the other young men your age? The King would have my head. So, you see what the servant says? God moves on the on the part and they keep him on. This is a totally pagan, unbelieving Babylonian royal official and God moves on his heart. I gotta say the next time I go to the DMV, that's kind of what it feels like. I'm in somebody else's house and I gotta learn how to play by somebody else's rules but Lord, please Lord when they call my name, let me have favor at the window, right? God moves on the heart of the servant but he says, listen Daniel, if the King sees you looking sicklier than everybody else, it's gonna be my head. Watch how he responds. We go forward. But Daniel said to the guard whom the chief official had appointed over, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. Do you notice we're still using Hebrew names here, right? Daniel's recording this and he's writing the Hebrew names of his friends. Please test your servants for 10 days. Give us nothing but vegetables to eat and water to drink. Then compare our appearance with that of the young men who eat the royal food and treat your servants in accordance with what you see. He's like, okay, Mr. servant guy, I totally hear you. I know that this diet won't affect my physical performance. I know that if you give us 10 days, you will see that we'll be totally fine eating what is suitable for our faith. Will you please give us a chance to prove it to you? So Daniel puts it all on the line. He says, listen, I'm not, Mr. servant guy, I'm not asking you, I'm not asking you to put yourself at risk. I'm asking you give me 10 days. Give me 10 days to show you that this diet, we are okay on this diet. This is why it's called the Daniel fast. If anybody's ever heard of the Daniel fast, right? A type of fasting that's not meats and sweets. Why? Because Daniel and Hananiah Azai El-Misriah didn't eat the meats and sweets of the king, the royal, the king Nebuchadnezzar's table in Babylon. They just asked for vegetables and water. So this is where biblically we get the idea that Daniel fast from. But Daniel also puts a measure on it. He puts a time limit on it which is a big part of fasting. You got to establish your time limit. And then he says, test me. Doesn't that sound like I test me in this and see if I won't? Then this isn't it. Just test me. Give me 10 days and I'll show you that we can eat this way. Because keep in mind, how long does he have to stay at Babylon University? Three years. It would be three years of eating defilement food. It will be three years of eating what in his culture would be sin. He'd be eating sin. I'm so glad I was born after Jesus so that bacon cheeseburgers are okay. So he, meaning the servant, agreed to this and tested them for 10 days. At the end of the 10 days they looked healthier and better nourished than any of the young men who had ate the royal food. So Daniel asks for the test. He's granted favor. He proves the test. So we go forward again. So the guard took away the choice food and wine they were to drink and gave them vegetables instead. To those four young men, God gave knowledge and understanding of all kinds of literature and learning and Daniel could understand visions and dreams of all kinds. Stop. So Daniel's first day at Babylon U, he goes down to the mess hall. He's like, um yeah I can't eat that but I'm not gonna choose to be mean about it. Excuse me Mr. official, can I just eat vegetables and water? Keep in mind, he's committing to do this for three years. I don't know about you but I've done a Daniel fast for 10 days and and my cake bones are hurting by the time the fast is over. So I'm like where's the sweets? Where's the treats? Somebody get me a Reese Cup. Daniel does this for three years. As soon as he is proven faithful, he and the other three, the four of them, as soon as they are proven faithful, look at what God does. God gives them knowledge and understanding of all kinds of literature and learning. God gives them a supernatural ability to be good at exactly what Babylon wants them to learn. Again keep in mind, it's God who sent them there. It's God who's now granted them favor. It is God who gives them to learn all kinds of languages and all kinds of things. Why is God doing this? It seems backwards if I were to start the story here and say, yep God sent his people into a foreign land and he made them good at learning the foreign ways. Doesn't that sound counterproductive? Doesn't sound like you want me to preach it that way, right? You want me to preach they hailed firm. They stood back against the ways of the devil. You know, you want me to tell you that they didn't get into culture. But the reality is they stayed true to their faith and God enabled them to be better than everyone else. Why? Do you remember what's going to happen at the end of the three years when they graduate? They go into where? The King's service. Just like Esther was moved into the palace in Persia. God's going to elevate Daniel to be right next to the King of all Babylon. That's why this part, this knowledge and understanding of all kinds of learning literature, this isn't an accident. Again coincidence or providence? You got to choose. I think this is providence because of course I've also read the rest of the book so maybe I cheated. But I know where God's moving Daniel. So God enables them to understand all the literature and learning and God gives Daniel the ability to understand visions and dreams of all kinds. Now I would argue that this is a Holy Spirit given gift. In the New Testament we might call this the gift of discerning of spirits perhaps. That's a spiritual gift granted by the Holy Spirit for the use of his people in order to accomplish his mission and will. We see the same thing happening here in the Old Testament. Now why? Now we move forward. Now we've seen the setup. Now here comes the story. The pagan king, who's the king of Babylon at this time? Anybody remember? Nebuchadnezzar. The pagan king Nebuchadnezzar makes an impossible request. We're going to go to Daniel 2, look at the first six verses and then 10 to 22 after that. Notice again how we're telling time by the king. This time we're in Babylon. Now take to the next slide. I'll show you what happens. Astrologers are people who get knowledge from stars. Good question. So here we're in Babylon and now King Nebuchadnezzar is having a dream. This sounds very reminiscent of an earlier Bible story, right? God's people in a foreign land. Pagan king has a dream. God puts the right man at the right spot. What story am I talking about? The story of Joseph, the back half of Genesis, right? Daniel's playing the Joseph playbook right now. God, now where do the dreams come from for Nebuchadnezzar? From God. But God's speaking to a pagan king. Why is that okay? Because God is using the pagan king to work through for his children in the same way that last week we looked at how God used Xerxes in order to protect the Jews during Esther's time in the Persian period here in the Babylonian period. Now why does King Nebuchadnezzar choose? I mean this is a really tall order. It'd be one thing if you were a dream interpreter like Jim. Let's just say you're like super good at dream interpretation and everybody in the church is gonna come and they're gonna join Jim's seed group because he has the ability to interpret dreams. I just made that up. Please do not try to ask him that. But let's just pretend that Jim is our in-house dream interpreter and he's good at it. He's got a track record of being able to rightly interpret dreams. But he's never had to tell somebody what the dream was and interpret it. See, when you have to tell someone what their dream was, you have to have access to knowledge that only they could have. Does anybody know what my dream was last night? No, that'll be my dream tonight. Trust me. When VBS is over, daddy needs a cheeseburger. So, it was. I wish it was. Man, I wish it was. When God puts this in He is creating the circumstances by which only he with his infinite inexhaustible knowledge, only he knows what Nebuchadnezzar's dream was. There's no way any of the astrologers are gonna know this. And look at how serious he is. This is what I have firmly decided. If you do not tell me what my dream was and interpret it, I will cut you into pieces and your houses turn into piles of rubble. This reminds me of the Jim Carrey Grinch movie. I will cut you down and gut you like a fish. There's no way he can know this. But if you tell me the dream and explain it, you will receive from me gifts and rewards and great honor. So, go ahead. Tell me my dream and interpret it. This is impossible. This is a humanly impossible task. Thankfully, we live in a world where there is a God who can do the humanly impossible. So, now we move forward. Watch this. The astrologers answered the king. There is no one on earth who can do what the king asks. No king, however great and mighty, has ever asked such a thing of any magician or enchanter or astrologer. What the king asks is too difficult. No one can reveal it to the king except the gods and they do not live among the humans. Do you see what all of the pagan people just did for us? They just threw it up and said, here God, go for it. I'm gonna tee it up for you right now. They said, there's no way. I love this. See, human elements. If you were in the Babylonian court, like let's just say, Dan, you're a guard. You're standing there right next to Nebuchadnezzar's throne. You got your spear. Yeah, you probably your sword right next to you. And you here never can ever spit this mess. Alright, listen. All my subjects, I had a bad dream. Tell me what it was and what it means or I will kill you and your families. Dance going. Oh, he did not have his Wheaties today. Right? The human part, we don't want to miss. How stressful. I mean, he's talking about killing 30, 40, 50, 100. I don't know how many people. He's going to kill them and their families and burn their homes down. He's... Do you see how very upset he is by the dream? See how very curious he is what it means? So, when they tell him, King, nobody can do this. What you're asking is impossible. This made the king angry and furious and he ordered the execution of all the wise men in Babylon. Off with their heads. Done. Oh, no. Well, I think we're trying to say all of the wise men includes the magicians and the astrologers and everybody else. Nebuchadnezzar is desperate. He is unnerved. He's acting unhinged. And the only way this problem can be solved is for a God who does not live among humans to answer. So, now let me take you forward. Here's the next point. Daniel gives glory to God for the dream and its interpretation. Here we're in Daniel 2. We're going to jump around a little bit. But here all of this comes from Daniel chapter 2. Then Daniel returned to his house and explained the matter to his friends, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. So, what does this sentence tell you? Daniel was in the group that was threatened. So, that means likely Daniel has graduated from Babylon U and because God has given him the ability to properly interpret dreams, he has been placed into the magical astrologer core in Babylon. I just need you to ask yourself for a second. If God asks you to live among witches to do his job, would you do it? Daniel knows that all of the pagan witchcraft that they are doing is absolutely sinful. Daniel knows everything they're doing is despised by his God and yet he also knows that he has been given the ability to do what they're pretending to do by God and it has put him in a very unique situation. As an apologist, I would love this situation. I love arguing with people. I would love presenting evidence. But this isn't even my kind of thing. This is a totally touchy-feely Holy Spirit dream interpretation thing. I'm out. Like, I'll just stand over. I'm with Dan. I'll stand here with a spear. I couldn't do this. But God has placed... I don't want you to miss how uncomfortable this could have been for Daniel. Daniel comes home after being threatened by the king and he tells his friends, he urged them to plead for mercy from the God of heaven concerning this mystery so that he and his friends might not be executed with the rest of the wise men of Babylon. During the night, the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision. Then Daniel praised the God of heaven. So Daniel is on the hook with the rest of all of these wise men. Now again, let me ask you a simple question. Daniel's moved to Babylon. Daniel graduates top of his class. Valedictorian of Babylon, you. He gets put into the magical astrologer interpreter corps and then the king has a dream and threatens the life of everybody. Coincidence or providence? Yep. So now let's keep going. Then Daniel went to Ariok whom the king had appointed to execute the wise men of Babylon and said to him, wait! Do not execute the wise men of Babylon. Take me to the king and I will interpret his dream for him. That took some guts. Like that's a lot of faith. Ariok took Daniel to the king at once and said, I have found a man from among the exiles from Judah who can tell the king what his dream means. The king asked Daniel, also called Belteshazzar because now we're in the back, we're back into the Babylonian. Are you able to tell me what I saw in my dream and interpret it? Go forward. Daniel replied, no wise men, enchanter, magician or diviner can explain to the king the mystery he has asked about. Stop. In case you don't know the story of Joseph really well, Joseph says this exact same thing to Pharaoh. When Pharaoh has a dream and they bring Joseph up from the prison, the very first thing that Joseph says, he's on the line, I know a guy he can interpret dreams, he moves mightily in God. They bring the guy up into the palace and Pharaoh says, I've heard that you can interpret dreams. Joseph goes, nope. My God can interpret dreams. All glory goes to him. Daniel does the same thing. Daniel says, I will interpret the dream and then as soon as he gets in front of Nebuchadnezzar, Daniel replies, nope. There's no wise man, enchanter, magician or diviner that can explain the king the mystery he's asked about. But there is a God and that makes all the difference doesn't it? But there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries. He has shown Nebuchadnezzar what will happen in the days to come. Your dreams and visions that pass through your mind as you were lying in bed are these. Now this ellipsis, I bypass the dream. It's a very large section, it's a very important part of Daniel. Nebuchadnezzar sees a statue made of different materials, okay? He sees the statue from the head down to the feet and then he sees the statue being crushed. King Nebuchadnezzar and then he explains the dream, these are all the kingdoms that will come after you. You're this kingdom, then there's this kingdom, then there's this kingdom, then there's this kingdom, then there will be a kingdom of ten pieces, that's all the toes, and then there will become a rock from heaven that crushes all the kingdoms of the world. That's most likely the Messianic kingdom when Jesus returns. So Daniel's talking about stuff that hasn't even happened yet as you and I are living and he explains the dream in detail and you can read it there. He explains the dream in detail and its interpretation. Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell prostrate before Daniel and paid him honor and ordered that an offering and incense be presented to him. The king said to Daniel, surely your God is the God of gods and the Lord of kings and a revealer of mysteries for you were able to reveal this mystery. Again, who is responsible for putting Daniel in Babylon? God. Who is responsible for Daniel being the valedictorian at Babylon? You. God. Who is responsible for Daniel's ability to interpret dreams in the first place? And who is responsible for this crazy dream that freaks out Nebuchadnezzar to the way he wants to kill everybody? God. In the midst of being in timeout, in the midst of being in exile, in the midst of being in a hostile culture, Daniel holds true to the simple fact that no matter what's in front of me, God stands beside me. That's a big lesson. What I wanted you to see in all of this before I get to the last point. This is how Daniel rises up to be great in Babylon. But Daniel does one more thing. Watch this. Daniel interprets mysterious writing on a wall for the next king. So after serving under King Nebuchadnezzar, Daniel stays in his position of authority in Babylon and now he serves under the next king. Now we go to Daniel chapter 5, 5 through 7 and then 23b to 30. Here it is. Suddenly the fingers of a human hand appeared and wrote on the plaster of the wall near the lampstands in the royal palace. The king watched as they wrote. His face turned pale. He was so frightened that his legs became weak and his knees were knocking. The king summoned the enchanters, the astrologers, the diviners. Then the king said to these wise men of Babylon, whoever reads this writing and tells me what it means will be clothed in purple and will have a gold chain placed around his neck and he will be made the third highest ruler in the kingdom. Sounds a lot like Joseph all over again, right? So we go forward. Then Daniel answered the king, you may keep your gifts. I love this. This is so swag. You may keep your gifts for yourself and give your rewards to someone else. Nevertheless, I will read for the king and tell him what it means. But you did not honor the God who holds his hand on your life and in all your ways. Therefore he sent the hand that wrote this inscription. This is the inscription that was written. Menemene tekel parsen. Go forward again. Here's what these words mean. Menem. God has numbered the days of your reign and brought it to an end. Tekel. You have been weighed in the scales, found wanting. Peres. Your kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians. Then Belshazzar. Then at Belshazzar. That's the name of the king. Daniel's name was Belshazzar. Belshazzar is the king after Nebuchadnezzar. Then at Belshazzar's command, Daniel was clothed in purple and a gold chain was placed around his neck and he was proclaimed the third highest ruler in the kingdom. That very night, Belshazzar, king of the Babylonians, was slain and Darius the Mede took over the kingdom at the age of 62. And all of this happens before the Lion's Den story. Daniel in the Lion's Den is chapter 6. I didn't even get there. I'm just stopping at chapter 5. So Daniel is moved by God into Babylon. He's then given favor by God to rise through the ranks in Babylon. He's given supernatural power to do things that no other human can do and answer these supernatural activities that happen in Babylon. So much so that he's made the third highest ranking person and he retains that position even when the Persians come in to destroy the Babylonians. After all of that, do you still believe that Daniel's story hinges on coincidence? I don't think so. I think the evidence pretty clearly speaks for itself. God was moving through Daniel in the midst of hostile culture, in the midst of threats of death, in order to accomplish his divine will of getting one of his people right there at the top of the palace. Now this palace is running the hostile culture that's trying to indoctrinate all of these other cultures in order to make them obey. And Daniel holds true to his faith and he is put in a position where he's able to influence pagan kingdoms with the power of God. Now I realize when we look at the whole story this way, it's a little easier to see God moving. Let me ask you a question. When was the last time you saw something in your life that you were like, huh? I wonder if that's providence and not coincidence. Because let me ask you, who was responsible for sending Daniel to Babylon? God was. If God moves his people, does God move you? Has God directed you? Does God move providentially in your life or do you just happen to see things as coincidence? I'm on the favor, I'm on the side of providence. Now sometimes it's hard to see providence. I'll give you that. Sometimes it's hard to understand why is our culture bending so far when God wants us to go this way. Why would God allow it? Then I look at a story like Daniel and I realize God doesn't need culture to bend to his will. He can override culture. He can overtake us. He can give us abilities to say and do things that overtake culture in a heartbeat. I also need you to see that Daniel submitted to culture and requested from within it. He didn't try to override it. He didn't walk into Babylon and be like, I have the Holy Spirit. I am better than all y'all. Here we go. Let's do this. He didn't do that. He was smart. He went through all the Babylonian U education in order to know how to use it to better accomplish God's will. So how do I bring all of this forward? Let me show you the takeaway. Here's what I'd like you to take away from today's message. Daniel is a man whose faith was strong despite his cultural surroundings. He was not able to control the captivity but he kept his faith in the midst of the fallout. Likewise today, we may not be in total control of our home, our work, social or cultural environments but we can look to the godly character of Daniel as an example to emulate. We must be faithful to Christ regardless of our cultural surroundings. Daniel gives us all a unique challenge. I think great heroes stand great because they challenge us to be greater. Daniel challenges us. Can we stand up for God in a culture that seems to be pushing him out? Can we represent Christ in a culture where saying Jesus is the only way to heaven is viewed as exclusive, as hateful, as intolerant? Can we preach the message of Jesus in a way that reaches culture without fighting with culture? I argue yes, I think we can. I think Daniel proves to me that you and I can transcend culture with the message of the gospel. My question is are you doing that today? Are you transcending culture for Christ or are you just merely claiming Christ on Sunday and living culturally Monday through Saturday? I can't speak for you. I could tell you that as my wife and I have tried to lead our children and sometimes when our family makes decisions, you guys can go ahead and come on up. I'm almost done, I promise. Daniel's going, how much long is he gonna talk? One thing my wife and I have tried to teach our children as our home and family values are no longer reflected in the larger cultural values. I've told my children, I said this is not about white black, this is not about liberal or conservative, this is about Jesus and everything else. My family's cultural choices are founded on the Word of God and when we do things differently than the world around us, it's not saying that they're bad or we're good, it's saying we're obedient and they need to be reached. We do not have to be hostile in order to be holy. I think that's sometimes a little difficult to walk especially when you want to have a conversation with somebody and they say, man, you know, you believe that Jesus is the only way to heaven, isn't that kind of narrow-minded? It's only narrow-minded if it's not true. If it is true, then it's loving. If I were to watch you get on a train that I knew was going to crash and everyone in it was gonna die and I was begging you to not get on that train because I know where the train goes. Am I being exclusive and intolerant or am I trying to save you? The gospel claim is very simple. Jesus is the only way to have a relationship with our Creator. That is not meant to be exclusive and it is not meant to be offensive. It's only offensive if it's not true. If it is true that Jesus is the only way and I would argue his resurrection stands as the godly stamp of approval. The only person in all of human history to have come back from the dead and been witnessed alive and in physical form. I'm gonna go ahead and say whoever came back from the dead can absolutely promise eternal life. Christianity has to be able to love our culture enough but stand up for truth. So this is what I want you to do. If you're on our campus today, please do me a favor, take out your cell phone. If you're joining us online, you can go to C302.com or excuse me, catalyst302.com forward slash connect. I want everybody to pull out their connection card today. If you don't have your phone, there are paper versions of the connection card in the chair in front of you. I want every single person in this room to use it and here's why. The connect card does more than just letting you respond to my sermon. Digitally, electronically, the connect card also tracks their attendance at church. The reason that that is important is the number one thing that causes churches to shrivel is what we call drift. I am looking out at a group of you and as I preach, I look at all your faces and I'm quizzing myself of how many names I know and how many I don't. But I can't necessarily remember from week to week which faces I saw. I don't want anybody to just drift away from our church because life got busy. By filing our, by filing your attendance, you give the shepherds, the deacons in our church, the ability to follow up with everyone in our church family and make sure that they are loved, that they are cared for, and that they're noticed. If you miss a Sunday, we should notice it because you're important and because you're valuable because you were made in the image of God. So every week when I do this connection card, it's twofold. It's number one because I want to get the attendance of who was here. I want the deacons to know who in your deacon group didn't make it to church for the last two weeks. Let's reach out. Let's make sure they're okay. I'm sure this is not surprising to you, but we've had people be in church for a week and elders and I and the staff not know about it because no one told us. If they were there, we would have responded. So if you're joining us online, it is equally as important for you to use your connect card. Today my challenge is very simple. I want you to walk out of here and live like Daniel. I want you to walk out of here saying this is what I believe and I love you enough to tell you the truth. I'm not standing up for truth because I'm a bigot. I'm not standing up for truth because I'm homophobic. I'm not standing up for truth because I'm unloving or because I'm hateful or because I'm anything else. I'm standing up for truth because truth exists, right? For people who love to hear the statement, well it's true for you, it's not for me. Tell me when you go to the bank and can tell the bank teller that, right? Go to the bank teller and try to withdraw a million dollars from your checking account. If you have a million dollars, go see Bill after church. I'm sure he'd love to pray with you. But if you don't have a million dollars in your bank account and you go to the bank and try to withdraw a million dollars, what's the bank teller gonna tell you? I'm sorry you don't have that much. Well but it's true for me that it's there, so I need you to give it to me. See, our pluralistic society only tolerates multiple versions of truth when it benefits them. Objective truth still exists and I would argue today, this is what I believe, it is objectively true that Jesus died to save every single soul from sin and from hell. And all it takes is to accept that free gift to receive him and his promised Holy Spirit, which by the way is the down payment, it's the IOU for eternity. How can I know that my eternal security is secure? Because God already gave me the Holy Spirit, it's the IOU. I'm coming back. I believe those statements are exactly objectively true and I believe I want everyone to know him as Savior. What do you believe today? Usher's if you guys would come forward, I'm gonna pray and our ushers are gonna receive our tithes and offerings this morning. I want to challenge you to trust God in your finances. Not because it changes my income at all, but I guarantee you just like Daniel, when you step out and you trust, God's favor does follow. We do not give to obligate God for blessing, but if the overarching lesson of the Old Testament teaches us anything, it's that blessing is muted through obedience. So I challenge you to be obedient in your finances today. Heavenly Father, I love you. We worship you. We stand united and true on the truth that Jesus is the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the God of Kings, the one who reveals and the one who saves. Lord, we worship you today because you are worthy of our worship. We give of our tithes and offerings today because you are worthy of our allegiance. But Lord, we entreat you today. Empower us to live like Daniel in a culture that is hostile to Christianity, but in a way that draws people to you and doesn't push them away. In Jesus' amazing name, amen.