Hall of Heroes (Rw): Moses
Monday, April 16, 2018 8:04 AM
Key Thought:
The 'life lessons' of Biblical characters are still relevant for us
today.
--
Hall of Heroes: Moses
Exodus chapters 1 - 3
--
1446 early date
1226 late date
3400 - 3200 years ago
--
The Story of Moses begins with Promise
Exodus 1:1-5 NIV
These are the names of the sons of Israel who went to Egypt
with Jacob, each with his family: Reuben, Simeon, Levi and
Judah; Issachar, Zebulun and Benjamin; Dan and Naphtali; Gad
and Asher. The descendants of Jacob numbered seventy in all;
Joseph was already in Egypt.
--
The Setting for Moses is one of Persecution
Exodus 1:8-14
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 1

Then a new king, to whom Joseph meant nothing, came to
power in Egypt. “Look,” he said to his people, “the Israelites
have become far too numerous for us. Come, we must deal
shrewdly with them or they will become even more numerous
and, if war breaks out, will join our enemies, fight against us
and leave the country.” So they put slave masters over them to
oppress them with forced labor, and they built Pithom and
Rameses as store cities for Pharaoh. But the more they were
oppressed, the more they multiplied and spread; so the
Egyptians came to dread the Israelites and worked them
ruthlessly. They made their lives bitter with harsh labor in brick
and mortar and with all kinds of work in the fields; in all their
harsh labor the Egyptians worked them ruthlessly.
--
The Start of Moses' journey is Providential
Exodus 2:1-10 NIV
Now a man of the tribe of Levi married a Levite woman, and she
became pregnant and gave birth to a son. When she saw that
he was a fine child, she hid him for three months. But when she
could hide him no longer, she got a papyrus basket for him and
coated it with tar and pitch. Then she placed the child in it and
put it among the reeds along the bank of the Nile. His sister
stood at a distance to see what would happen to him. Then
Pharaoh’s daughter went down to the Nile to bathe, and her
attendants were walking along the riverbank. She saw the
basket among the reeds and sent her female slave to get it. She
opened it and saw the baby. He was crying, and she felt sorry
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 2

opened it and saw the baby. He was crying, and she felt sorry
for him. “This is one of the Hebrew babies,” she said. Then his
sister asked Pharaoh’s daughter, “Shall I go and get one of the
Hebrew women to nurse the baby for you?” “Yes, go,” she
answered. So the girl went and got the baby’s mother.
Pharaoh’s daughter said to her, “Take this baby and nurse him
for me, and I will pay you.” So the woman took the baby and
nursed him. When the child grew older, she took him to
Pharaoh’s daughter and he became her son. She named him
Moses, saying, “I drew him out of the water.”
--
A Stumble by Moses leads to His Preparation
Exodus 2:11-22 NIV
One day, after Moses had grown up, he went out to where his
own people were and watched them at their hard labor. He saw
an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his own people. Looking
this way and that and seeing no one, he killed the Egyptian and
hid him in the sand. The next day he went out and saw two
Hebrews fighting. He asked the one in the wrong, “Why are you
hitting your fellow Hebrew?” The man said, “Who made you
ruler and judge over us? Are you thinking of killing me as you
killed the Egyptian?” Then Moses was afraid and thought,
“What I did must have become known.” When Pharaoh heard
of this, he tried to kill Moses, but Moses fled from Pharaoh and
went to live in Midian, where he sat down by a well. Now a
priest of Midian had seven daughters, and they came to draw
water and fill the troughs to water their father’s flock. Some
shepherds came along and drove them away, but Moses got up
and came to their rescue and watered their flock. When the
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 3

and came to their rescue and watered their flock. When the
girls returned to Reuel their father, he asked them, “Why have
you returned so early today?” They answered, “An Egyptian
rescued us from the shepherds. He even drew water for us and
watered the flock.” “And where is he?” Reuel asked his
daughters. “Why did you leave him? Invite him to have
something to eat.” Moses agreed to stay with the man, who
gave his daughter Zipporah to Moses in marriage. Zipporah
gave birth to a son, and Moses named him Gershom, saying, “I
have become a foreigner in a foreign land.”
--
The Schedule for Moses came at the Proper Time
Exodus 3:1-22
Now Moses was tending the flock of Jethro his father-in-law,
the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the far side of the
wilderness and came to Horeb, the mountain of God. There the
angel of the Lord appeared to him in flames of fire from within
a bush. Moses saw that though the bush was on fire it did not
burn up. So Moses thought, “I will go over and see this strange
sight—why the bush does not burn up.” When the Lord saw that
he had gone over to look, God called to him from within the
bush, “Moses! Moses!” And Moses said, “Here I am.” “Do not
come any closer,” God said. “Take off your sandals, for the
place where you are standing is holy ground.” Then he said, “I
am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of
Isaac and the God of Jacob.” At this, Moses hid his face,
because he was afraid to look at God. The Lord said, “I have
indeed seen the misery of my people in Egypt. I have heard
them crying out because of their slave drivers, and I am
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 4

them crying out because of their slave drivers, and I am
concerned about their suffering. So I have come down to rescue
them from the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up out
of that land into a good and spacious land, a land flowing with
milk and honey—the home of the Canaanites, Hittites,
Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites. And now the cry of
the Israelites has reached me, and I have seen the way the
Egyptians are oppressing them. So now, go. I am sending you to
Pharaoh to bring my people the Israelites out of Egypt.” But
Moses said to God, “Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and
bring the Israelites out of Egypt?” And God said, “I will be with
you. And this will be the sign to you that it is I who have sent
you: When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you will
worship God on this mountain.” Moses said to God, “Suppose I
go to the Israelites and say to them, ‘The God of your fathers
has sent me to you,’ and they ask me, ‘What is his name?’ Then
what shall I tell them?” God said to Moses, “I am who I am. This
is what you are to say to the Israelites: ‘I am has sent me to
you.’” God also said to Moses, “Say to the Israelites, ‘The
Lord,[d] the God of your fathers—the God of Abraham, the God
of Isaac and the God of Jacob—has sent me to you.’ “This is my
name forever, the name you shall call me from generation to
generation. “Go, assemble the elders of Israel and say to them,
‘The Lord, the God of your fathers—the God of Abraham, Isaac
and Jacob—appeared to me and said: I have watched over you
and have seen what has been done to you in Egypt. And I have
promised to bring you up out of your misery in Egypt into the
land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and
Jebusites—a land flowing with milk and honey.’ “The elders of
Israel will listen to you. Then you and the elders are to go to the
king of Egypt and say to him, ‘The Lord, the God of the Hebrews,
has met with us. Let us take a three-day journey into the
wilderness to offer sacrifices to the Lord our God.’ But I know
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 5

wilderness to offer sacrifices to the Lord our God.’ But I know
that the king of Egypt will not let you go unless a mighty hand
compels him. So I will stretch out my hand and strike the
Egyptians with all the wonders that I will perform among them.
After that, he will let you go. “And I will make the Egyptians
favorably disposed toward this people, so that when you leave
you will not go empty-handed. Every woman is to ask her
neighbor and any woman living in her house for articles of silver
and gold and for clothing, which you will put on your sons and
daughters. And so you will plunder the Egyptians.”
--
The Takeaway:
1. We have a promise from the Savior that He will return
2. We will face difficulty and trial in the meantime
3. We often mistake God's providence for coincidence
4. God can and will use our mistakes to mature us
5. When the time is right, we must act!
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 6

Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 7

Hall of Heroes (Rw): Esther
Tuesday, May 15, 2018 11:02 AM
Key Thought:
The 'life lessons' of Biblical characters are still relevant for
us today.
Hall of Heroes: Esther
Esther 1-8
Preface:
The book of Esther is the most debated book in the Bible.
The book of Esther is the reason for the annual Jewish holiday
of Purim.
(leave off of slides)
Khshayarsha (Persian)
Xerxes (Greek name)
Ahasuerus (Hebrew) /ah-HAZ-er-us/
The Setting:
God's chosen people are in exile in a pagan, unforgiving,
foreign land.
Esther 1:2-5a, 10-12, 16-18; 2:2-4 NIV
At that time King Xerxes reigned from his royal throne in the
citadel of Susa, and in the third year of his reign he gave a
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 8

citadel of Susa, and in the third year of his reign he gave a
banquet for all his nobles and officials… On the seventh day,
when King Xerxes was in high spirits from wine, he commanded
the seven eunuchs who served him… to bring before him Queen
Vashti, wearing her royal crown, in order to display her beauty
to the people and nobles, for she was lovely to look at. But
when the attendants delivered the king’s command, Queen
Vashti refused to come. Then the king became furious and
burned with anger... Then the king’s personal attendants
proposed, “Let a search be made for beautiful young virgins for
the king. Let the king appoint commissioners in every province
of his realm to bring all these beautiful young women into the
harem at the citadel of Susa. Let them be placed under the care
of Hegai, the king’s eunuch, who is in charge of the women; and
let beauty treatments be given to them. Then let the young
woman who pleases the king be queen instead of Vashti.” This
advice appealed to the king, and he followed it.
Even in exile, God's favor is on Esther
Esther 2:5-9
Now there was in the citadel of Susa a Jew of the tribe of
Benjamin, named Mordecai… among those taken captive with
Jehoiachin king of Judah. Mordecai had a cousin named
Hadassah, whom he had brought up because she had neither
father nor mother. This young woman, who was also known as
Esther, had a lovely figure and was beautiful. Mordecai had
taken her as his own daughter when her father and mother
died. When the king’s order and edict had been proclaimed,
many young women were brought to the citadel of Susa and
put under the care of Hegai. Esther also was taken to the king’s
palace and entrusted to Hegai, who had charge of the harem.
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 9

palace and entrusted to Hegai, who had charge of the harem.
She pleased him and won his favor. Immediately he provided
her with her beauty treatments and special food. He assigned to
her seven female attendants selected from the king’s palace
and moved her and her attendants into the best place in the
harem.
Haman, by lot, chooses the day to exterminate the Jews
Esther 3:1-7 NIV
After these events, King Xerxes honored Haman son of
Hammedatha, the Agagite, elevating him and giving him a seat
of honor higher than that of all the other nobles. All the royal
officials at the king’s gate knelt down and paid honor to
Haman, for the king had commanded this concerning him. But
Mordecai would not kneel down or pay him honor. Then the
royal officials at the king’s gate asked Mordecai, “Why do you
disobey the king’s command?” Day after day they spoke to him
but he refused to comply. Therefore they told Haman about it to
see whether Mordecai’s behavior would be tolerated, for he had
told them he was a Jew. When Haman saw that Mordecai
would not kneel down or pay him honor, he was enraged. Yet
having learned who Mordecai’s people were, he scorned the
idea of killing only Mordecai. Instead Haman looked for a way
to destroy all Mordecai’s people, the Jews, throughout the
whole kingdom of Xerxes. In the twelfth year of King Xerxes, in
the first month, the month of Nisan, the pur (that is, the lot)
was cast in the presence of Haman to select a day and month.
And the lot fell on the twelfth month, the month of Adar.
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 10

Esther chooses to risk her life to save her people
Esther 4:1-17
When Mordecai learned of all that had been done, he tore his
clothes, put on sackcloth and ashes, and went out into the city,
wailing loudly and bitterly… When Esther’s eunuchs and female
attendants came and told her about Mordecai, she was in great
distress. She sent clothes for him to put on instead of his
sackcloth, but he would not accept them... Mordecai told him
everything that had happened to him, including the exact
amount of money Haman had promised to pay into the royal
treasury for the destruction of the Jews. He also gave him a
copy of the text of the edict for their annihilation, which had
been published in Susa, to show to Esther and explain it to her,
and he told him to instruct her to go into the king’s presence to
beg for mercy and plead with him for her people… When
Esther’s words were reported to Mordecai, he sent back this
answer: “Do not think that because you are in the king’s house
you alone of all the Jews will escape. For if you remain silent at
this time, relief and deliverance for the Jews will arise from
another place, but you and your father’s family will perish. And
who knows but that you have come to your royal position for
such a time as this?” Then Esther sent this reply to Mordecai:
“Go, gather together all the Jews who are in Susa, and fast for
me. Do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my
attendants will fast as you do. When this is done, I will go to the
king, even though it is against the law. And if I perish, I
perish.” So Mordecai went away and carried out all of Esther’s
instructions.
God saves Esther and slaughters Haman
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 11

God saves Esther and slaughters Haman
Esther 5:1-4; 7:1-10 NIV
On the third day Esther put on her royal robes and stood in the
inner court of the palace, in front of the king’s hall. The king was
sitting on his royal throne in the hall, facing the entrance. When
he saw Queen Esther standing in the court, he was pleased with
her and held out to her the gold scepter that was in his hand. So
Esther approached and touched the tip of the scepter. Then the
king asked, “What is it, Queen Esther? What is your request?
Even up to half the kingdom, it will be given you.”… Then Queen
Esther answered, “If I have found favor with you, Your Majesty,
and if it pleases you, grant me my life—this is my petition. And
spare my people—this is my request. For I and my people have
been sold to be destroyed, killed and annihilated. If we had
merely been sold as male and female slaves, I would have kept
quiet, because no such distress would justify disturbing the
king." King Xerxes asked Queen Esther, “Who is he? Where is
he—the man who has dared to do such a thing?” Esther said,
“An adversary and enemy! This vile Haman!”… Then Harbona,
one of the eunuchs attending the king, said, “A pole reaching to
a height of fifty cubits stands by Haman’s house. He had it set
up for Mordecai, who spoke up to help the king.” The king said,
“Impale him on it!” So they impaled Haman on the pole he had
set up for Mordecai. Then the king’s fury subsided.
The Jews day of reckoning becomes a day of reward
Esther 8:5-8,11-12 NIV
If it pleases the king,” she said, “and if he regards me with favor
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 12

If it pleases the king,” she said, “and if he regards me with favor
and thinks it the right thing to do, and if he is pleased with me,
let an order be written overruling the dispatches that Haman
son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, devised and wrote to destroy
the Jews in all the king’s provinces. For how can I bear to see
disaster fall on my people? How can I bear to see the
destruction of my family?” ... The king’s edict granted the Jews
in every city the right to assemble and protect themselves; to
destroy, kill and annihilate the armed men of any nationality or
province who might attack them and their women and children,
and to plunder the property of their enemies. The day appointed
for the Jews to do this in all the provinces of King Xerxes was the
thirteenth day of the twelfth month, the month of Adar.
The Takeaway:
Even in exile, God had not forgotten His people nor removed
His protection and promises. Nothing we can do can separate
us from the love of God or the promises of His Word. Because
of this love, the final "day of reckoning" will be a day of reward,
for those who know Christ as their Savior.
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 13

Hall of Heroes (Rw): Gideon
Tuesday, May 1, 2018 11:28 AM
Key Thought:
The 'life lessons' of Biblical characters are still relevant for us
today.
--
Hall of Heroes: Gideon
Judges 6:1-40 NIV
--
The Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and for seven
years he gave them into the hands of the Midianites. Because
the power of Midian was so oppressive, the Israelites prepared
shelters for themselves in mountain clefts, caves and
strongholds. Whenever the Israelites planted their crops, the
Midianites, Amalekites and other eastern peoples invaded the
country. They camped on the land and ruined the crops all the
way to Gaza and did not spare a living thing for Israel, neither
sheep nor cattle nor donkeys. They came up with their livestock
and their tents like swarms of locusts. It was impossible to
count them or their camels; they invaded the land to ravage it.
Midian so impoverished the Israelites that they cried out to the
Lord for help. When the Israelites cried out to the Lord because
of Midian, he sent them a prophet, who said, “This is what the
Lord, the God of Israel, says: I brought you up out of Egypt, out
of the land of slavery. I rescued you from the hand of the
Egyptians. And I delivered you from the hand of all your
oppressors; I drove them out before you and gave you their
land. I said to you, ‘I am the Lord your God; do not worship the
gods of the Amorites, in whose land you live.’ But you have not
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 14

gods of the Amorites, in whose land you live.’ But you have not
listened to me.” The angel of the Lord came and sat down
under the oak in Ophrah that belonged to Joash the Abiezrite,
where his son Gideon was threshing wheat in a winepress to
keep it from the Midianites. When the angel of the Lord
appeared to Gideon, he said, “The Lord is with you, mighty
warrior.” “Pardon me, my lord,” Gideon replied, “but if the Lord
is with us, why has all this happened to us? Where are all his
wonders that our ancestors told us about when they said, ‘Did
not the Lord bring us up out of Egypt?’ But now the Lord has
abandoned us and given us into the hand of Midian.” The Lord
turned to him and said, “Go in the strength you have and save
Israel out of Midian’s hand. Am I not sending you?” “Pardon
me, my lord,” Gideon replied, “but how can I save Israel? My
clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my
family.” The Lord answered, “I will be with you, and you will
strike down all the Midianites, leaving none alive.” Gideon
replied, “If now I have found favor in your eyes, give me a sign
that it is really you talking to me. Please do not go away until I
come back and bring my offering and set it before you.” And
the Lord said, “I will wait until you return.” Gideon went inside,
prepared a young goat, and from an ephah of flour he made
bread without yeast. Putting the meat in a basket and its broth
in a pot, he brought them out and offered them to him under
the oak. The angel of God said to him, “Take the meat and the
unleavened bread, place them on this rock, and pour out the
broth.” And Gideon did so. Then the angel of the Lord touched
the meat and the unleavened bread with the tip of the staff
that was in his hand. Fire flared from the rock, consuming the
meat and the bread. And the angel of the Lord disappeared.
When Gideon realized that it was the angel of the Lord, he
exclaimed, “Alas, Sovereign Lord! I have seen the angel of the
Lord face to face!” But the Lord said to him, “Peace! Do not be
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 15

Lord face to face!” But the Lord said to him, “Peace! Do not be
afraid. You are not going to die.” So Gideon built an altar to the
Lord there and called it The Lord Is Peace. To this day it stands
in Ophrah of the Abiezrites. That same night the Lord said to
him, “Take the second bull from your father’s herd, the one
seven years old. Tear down your father’s altar to Baal and cut
down the Asherah pole beside it. Then build a proper kind of
altar to the Lord your God on the top of this height. Using the
wood of the Asherah pole that you cut down, offer the second
bull as a burnt offering.” So Gideon took ten of his servants and
did as the Lord told him. But because he was afraid of his family
and the townspeople, he did it at night rather than in the
daytime. In the morning when the people of the town got up,
there was Baal’s altar, demolished, with the Asherah pole
beside it cut down and the second bull sacrificed on the newly
built altar! They asked each other, “Who did this?” When they
carefully investigated, they were told, “Gideon son of Joash did
it.” The people of the town demanded of Joash, “Bring out your
son. He must die, because he has broken down Baal’s altar and
cut down the Asherah pole beside it.” But Joash replied to the
hostile crowd around him, “Are you going to plead Baal’s
cause? Are you trying to save him? Whoever fights for him shall
be put to death by morning! If Baal really is a god, he can
defend himself when someone breaks down his altar.” So
because Gideon broke down Baal’s altar, they gave him the
name Jerub-Baal that day, saying, “Let Baal contend with
him.” Now all the Midianites, Amalekites and other eastern
peoples joined forces and crossed over the Jordan and camped
in the Valley of Jezreel. Then the Spirit of the Lord came on
Gideon, and he blew a trumpet, summoning the Abiezrites to
follow him. He sent messengers throughout Manasseh, calling
them to arms, and also into Asher, Zebulun and Naphtali, so
that they too went up to meet them. Gideon said to God, “If
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 16

that they too went up to meet them. Gideon said to God, “If
you will save Israel by my hand as you have promised— look, I
will place a wool fleece on the threshing floor. If there is dew
only on the fleece and all the ground is dry, then I will know
that you will save Israel by my hand, as you said.” And that is
what happened. Gideon rose early the next day; he squeezed
the fleece and wrung out the dew—a bowlful of water. Then
Gideon said to God, “Do not be angry with me. Let me make
just one more request. Allow me one more test with the fleece,
but this time make the fleece dry and let the ground be covered
with dew.” That night God did so. Only the fleece was dry; all
the ground was covered with dew.
--
The Setting:
Israel's disobedience led to their discipline.
Judges 6:1-7 NIV
--
The Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and for seven
years he gave them into the hands of the Midianites. Because
the power of Midian was so oppressive, the Israelites prepared
shelters for themselves in mountain clefts, caves and
strongholds. Whenever the Israelites planted their crops, the
Midianites, Amalekites and other eastern peoples invaded the
country. They camped on the land and ruined the crops all the
way to Gaza and did not spare a living thing for Israel, neither
sheep nor cattle nor donkeys. They came up with their livestock
and their tents like swarms of locusts. It was impossible to
count them or their camels; they invaded the land to ravage it.
Midian so impoverished the Israelites that they cried out to the
Lord for help.
--
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 17

--
SALVATION:
The Lord answers the appeals of His people
Judges 6:7-12 NIV
--
When the Israelites cried out to the Lord because of Midian, he
sent them a prophet, who said, “This is what the Lord, the God
of Israel, says: I brought you up out of Egypt, out of the land of
slavery. I rescued you from the hand of the Egyptians. And I
delivered you from the hand of all your oppressors; I drove
them out before you and gave you their land. I said to you, ‘I
am the Lord your God; do not worship the gods of the
Amorites, in whose land you live.’ But you have not listened to
me.” The angel of the Lord came and sat down under the oak in
Ophrah that belonged to Joash the Abiezrite, where his son
Gideon was threshing wheat in a winepress to keep it from the
Midianites. When the angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon, he
said, “The Lord is with you, mighty warrior.”
--
DOUBT:
Gideon doubts the Lord and himself.
Judges 6:13-18 NIV
--
“Pardon me, my lord,” Gideon replied, “but if the Lord is with
us, why has all this happened to us? Where are all his wonders
that our ancestors told us about when they said, ‘Did not the
Lord bring us up out of Egypt?’ But now the Lord has
abandoned us and given us into the hand of Midian.” The Lord
turned to him and said, “Go in the strength you have and save
Israel out of Midian’s hand. Am I not sending you?” “Pardon
me, my lord,” Gideon replied, “but how can I save Israel? My
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 18

me, my lord,” Gideon replied, “but how can I save Israel? My
clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my
family.” The Lord answered, “I will be with you, and you will
strike down all the Midianites, leaving none alive.” Gideon
replied, “If now I have found favor in your eyes, give me a sign
that it is really you talking to me. Please do not go away until I
come back and bring my offering and set it before you.”
--
ENCOUNTER:
Gideon worships the Lord
Judges 6:19-24 NIV
--
And the Lord said, “I will wait until you return.” Gideon went
inside, prepared a young goat, and from an ephah of flour he
made bread without yeast. Putting the meat in a basket and its
broth in a pot, he brought them out and offered them to him
under the oak. The angel of God said to him, “Take the meat
and the unleavened bread, place them on this rock, and pour
out the broth.” And Gideon did so. Then the angel of the Lord
touched the meat and the unleavened bread with the tip of the
staff that was in his hand. Fire flared from the rock, consuming
the meat and the bread. And the angel of the Lord disappeared.
When Gideon realized that it was the angel of the Lord, he
exclaimed, “Alas, Sovereign Lord! I have seen the angel of the
Lord face to face!” But the Lord said to him, “Peace! Do not be
afraid. You are not going to die.” So Gideon built an altar to the
Lord there and called it The Lord Is Peace. To this day it stands
in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
--
REVIVAL:
For Gideon, spiritual transformation starts home
Judges 6:25-32 NIV
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 19

Judges 6:25-32 NIV
--
That same night the Lord said to him, “Take the second bull
from your father’s herd, the one seven years old. Tear down
your father’s altar to Baal and cut down the Asherah pole
beside it. Then build a proper kind of altar to the Lord your God
on the top of this height. Using the wood of the Asherah pole
that you cut down, offer the second bull as a burnt offering.” So
Gideon took ten of his servants and did as the Lord told him.
But because he was afraid of his family and the townspeople,
he did it at night rather than in the daytime. In the morning
when the people of the town got up, there was Baal’s altar,
demolished, with the Asherah pole beside it cut down and the
second bull sacrificed on the newly built altar! They asked each
other, “Who did this?” When they carefully investigated, they
were told, “Gideon son of Joash did it.” The people of the town
demanded of Joash, “Bring out your son. He must die, because
he has broken down Baal’s altar and cut down the Asherah pole
beside it.” But Joash replied to the hostile crowd around him,
“Are you going to plead Baal’s cause? Are you trying to save
him? Whoever fights for him shall be put to death by morning!
If Baal really is a god, he can defend himself when someone
breaks down his altar.” So because Gideon broke down Baal’s
altar, they gave him the name Jerub-Baal that day, saying, “Let
Baal contend with him.”
--
MISSION:
Gideon call the people together and confirms the Lord's will
Judges 6:33-40 NIV
--
Now all the Midianites, Amalekites and other eastern peoples
joined forces and crossed over the Jordan and camped in the
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 20

joined forces and crossed over the Jordan and camped in the
Valley of Jezreel. Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Gideon,
and he blew a trumpet, summoning the Abiezrites to follow
him. He sent messengers throughout Manasseh, calling them to
arms, and also into Asher, Zebulun and Naphtali, so that they
too went up to meet them. Gideon said to God, “If you will save
Israel by my hand as you have promised look, I will place a wool
fleece on the threshing floor. If there is dew only on the fleece
and all the ground is dry, then I will know that you will save
Israel by my hand, as you said.” And that is what happened.
Gideon rose early the next day; he squeezed the fleece and
wrung out the dew—a bowlful of water. Then Gideon said to
God, “Do not be angry with me. Let me make just one more
request. Allow me one more test with the fleece, but this time
make the fleece dry and let the ground be covered with dew.”
That night God did so. Only the fleece was dry; all the ground
was covered with dew.
--
The Takeaway:
Even when we have a relationship with Christ, we are not
immune to doubt. We will need to rekindle revival and at
times motivate ourselves to get on mission.
The presence of doubt, lack of revival, and the need for
motivation are all speedbumps on the journey of faith. Don't
make them stop signs.
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 21

Hall of Heroes (Rw): David
Tuesday, May 8, 2018 10:29 AM
Key Thought:
The 'life lessons' of Biblical characters are still relevant for us
today.
Hall of Heroes: David
1 Samuel 15-17
Preface:
The story of David & Goliath is really about David & Saul.
Saul is rejected by God as king of Israel
1 Samuel 15:1-3,7-11 NIV
Samuel said to Saul, “I am the one the Lord sent to anoint you
king over his people Israel; so listen now to the message from
the Lord. This is what the Lord Almighty says: ‘I will punish the
Amalekites for what they did to Israel when they waylaid them
as they came up from Egypt. Now go, attack the Amalekites and
totally destroy all that belongs to them. Do not spare them; put
to death men and women, children and infants, cattle and
sheep, camels and donkeys.’”... Then Saul attacked the
Amalekites all the way from Havilah to Shur, near the eastern
border of Egypt. He took Agag king of the Amalekites alive, and
all his people he totally destroyed with the sword. But Saul and
the army spared Agag and the best of the sheep and cattle, the
fat calves and lambs—everything that was good. These they
were unwilling to destroy completely, but everything that was
despised and weak they totally destroyed. Then the word of the
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 22

despised and weak they totally destroyed. Then the word of the
Lord came to Samuel: “I regret that I have made Saul king,
because he has turned away from me and has not carried out
my instructions.” Samuel was angry, and he cried out to the
Lord all that night.
David is selected by God as king of Israel
1 Samuel 16:1-3, 7, 11-13 NIV
The Lord said to Samuel, “How long will you mourn for Saul,
since I have rejected him as king over Israel? Fill your horn with
oil and be on your way; I am sending you to Jesse of Bethlehem.
I have chosen one of his sons to be king.” But Samuel said, “How
can I go? If Saul hears about it, he will kill me.” The Lord said,
“Take a heifer with you and say, ‘I have come to sacrifice to the
Lord.’ Invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what to
do. You are to anoint for me the one I indicate.” ... But the Lord
said to Samuel, “Do not consider his appearance or his height,
for I have rejected him. The Lord does not look at the things
people look at. People look at the outward appearance, but the
Lord looks at the heart.” ... So he asked Jesse, “Are these all the
sons you have?” “There is still the youngest,” Jesse answered.
“He is tending the sheep.” Samuel said, “Send for him; we will
not sit down until he arrives.” So he sent for him and had him
brought in. He was glowing with health and had a fine
appearance and handsome features. Then the Lord said, “Rise
and anoint him; this is the one.” So Samuel took the horn of oil
and anointed him in the presence of his brothers, and from that
day on the Spirit of the Lord came powerfully upon David.
Goliath issued a "one man" challenge
1 Samuel 17:1-11 NIV
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 23

1 Samuel 17:1-11 NIV
Now the Philistines gathered their forces for war and assembled
at Sokoh in Judah. They pitched camp at Ephes Dammim,
between Sokoh and Azekah. Saul and the Israelites assembled
and camped in the Valley of Elah and drew up their battle line
to meet the Philistines. The Philistines occupied one hill and the
Israelites another, with the valley between them. A champion
named Goliath, who was from Gath, came out of the Philistine
camp. His height was six cubits and a span. He had a bronze
helmet on his head and wore a coat of scale armor of bronze
weighing five thousand shekels on his legs he wore bronze
greaves, and a bronze javelin was slung on his back. His spear
shaft was like a weaver’s rod, and its iron point weighed six
hundred shekels. His shield bearer went ahead of him. Goliath
stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel, “Why do you come out
and line up for battle? Am I not a Philistine, and are you not the
servants of Saul? Choose a man and have him come down to
me. If he is able to fight and kill me, we will become your
subjects; but if I overcome him and kill him, you will become our
subjects and serve us.” Then the Philistine said, “This day I defy
the armies of Israel! Give me a man and let us fight each other.”
On hearing the Philistine’s words, Saul and all the Israelites
were dismayed and terrified.
David & Saul saw the Goliath problem differently
1 Samuel 17:24-26 NIV
Whenever the Israelites saw the man, they all fled from him in
great fear. Now the Israelites had been saying, “Do you see how
this man keeps coming out? He comes out to defy Israel. The
king will give great wealth to the man who kills him. He will also
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 24

king will give great wealth to the man who kills him. He will also
give him his daughter in marriage and will exempt his family
from taxes in Israel.” David asked the men standing near him,
“What will be done for the man who kills this Philistine and
removes this disgrace from Israel? Who is this uncircumcised
Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God?”
David & Saul solved the Goliath problem differently
1 Samuel 17:33-40 NIV
Saul replied, “You are not able to go out against this Philistine
and fight him; you are only a young man, and he has been a
warrior from his youth.” But David said to Saul, “Your servant
has been keeping his father’s sheep. When a lion or a bear came
and carried off a sheep from the flock, I went after it, struck it
and rescued the sheep from its mouth. When it turned on me, I
seized it by its hair, struck it and killed it. Your servant has killed
both the lion and the bear; this uncircumcised Philistine will be
like one of them, because he has defied the armies of the living
God. The Lord who rescued me from the paw of the lion and the
paw of the bear will rescue me from the hand of this
Philistine.” Saul said to David, “Go, and the Lord be with
you.” Then Saul dressed David in his own tunic. He put a coat of
armor on him and a bronze helmet on his head. David fastened
on his sword over the tunic and tried walking around, because
he was not used to them. “I cannot go in these,” he said to Saul,
“because I am not used to them.” So he took them off. Then he
took his staff in his hand, chose five smooth stones from the
stream, put them in the pouch of his shepherd’s bag and, with
his sling in his hand, approached the Philistine.
Saul vs David:
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 25

Saul vs David:
Saul was the king (15:11), David was a shepherd (16:11).
Saul stood "a head above" the Israelites (9:2), David was
young with beautiful eyes (16:12).
Saul should have gone first to fight the battle (8:20), David was
delivering food for his family (17:17).
Saul ran in fear from Goliath (17:24), David volunteered to fight
Goliath (17:32).
Saul sees a man of war (17:33), David sees a predator to
the flock (17:37).
Saul trusted in man-made weapons and armor (17:38), David
trusted in the Lord (17:45).
Saul was a failure (17:55), David was victorious (17:50).
This story is not about facing a giant man, but replacing a
defiant king.
The victory of Goliath is not just about "facing giants" but about
the rise of David and rejection of Saul. Saul's sin disqualified
him. The conflict with Goliath shows David is God's chosen
shepherd for His people.
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 26

Hall of Heroes (Rw): Daniel
Tuesday, May 22, 2018 11:07 AM
Key Thought:
The 'life lessons' of Biblical characters are still relevant for us
today.
Hall of Heroes: Daniel
Daniel 1-5
Setting:
The Babylonian Captivity of the Jews (605 BC)
~500 years after David reigned as king of Judah
~100 years before Esther becomes Queen of Persia
Daniel and three friends are given to captivity in Babylon
Daniel 1:1-7 NIV
In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to
Jerusalem and besieged it. And the Lord delivered Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, along with
some of the articles from the temple of God. These he carried off to the temple of his god in
Babylonia and put in the treasure house of his god. Then the king ordered Ashpenaz, chief of his
court officials, to bring into the king’s service some of the Israelites from the royal family and the
nobility—young men without any physical defect, handsome, showing aptitude for every kind of learning,
well informed, quick to understand, and qualified to serve in the king’s palace. He was to teach them the
language and literature of the Babylonians. The king assigned them a daily amount of food and wine from the
king’s table. They were to be trained for three years, and after that they were to enter the king’s
service.Among those who were chosen were some from Judah: Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah. The
chief official gave them new names: to Daniel, the name Belteshazzar; to Hananiah, Shadrach; to Mishael,
Meshach; and to Azariah, Abednego.
Daniel and his friends choose holiness over decadence
Daniel 1:8-17 NIV
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 27

But Daniel resolved not to defile himself with the royal food and
wine, and he asked the chief official for permission not to defile
himself this way. Now God had caused the official to show favor
and compassion to Daniel, but the official told Daniel, “I am
afraid of my lord the king, who has assigned your food and
drink. Why should he see you looking worse than the other
young men your age? The king would then have my head
because of you.” Daniel then said to the guard whom the chief
official had appointed over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and
Azariah, “Please test your servants for ten days: Give us nothing
but vegetables to eat and water to drink. Then compare our
appearance with that of the young men who eat the royal food,
and treat your servants in accordance with what you see.” So he
agreed to this and tested them for ten days. At the end of the
ten days they looked healthier and better nourished than any of
the young men who ate the royal food. So the guard took away
their choice food and the wine they were to drink and gave
them vegetables instead. To these four young men God gave
knowledge and understanding of all kinds of literature and
learning. And Daniel could understand visions and dreams of all
kinds.
The pagan king makes an impossible request
Daniel 2:1-6, 10-22 NIV
In the second year of his reign, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams; his
mind was troubled and he could not sleep. So the king
summoned the magicians, enchanters, sorcerers and
astrologers to tell him what he had dreamed. When they came
in and stood before the king, he said to them, “I have had a
dream that troubles me and I want to know what it
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 28

dream that troubles me and I want to know what it
means.” Then the astrologers answered the king, “May the king
live forever! Tell your servants the dream, and we will interpret
it.” The king replied to the astrologers, “This is what I have
firmly decided: If you do not tell me what my dream was and
interpret it, I will have you cut into pieces and your houses
turned into piles of rubble. But if you tell me the dream and
explain it, you will receive from me gifts and rewards and great
honor. So tell me the dream and interpret it for me.”... The
astrologers answered the king, “There is no one on earth who
can do what the king asks! No king, however great and mighty,
has ever asked such a thing of any magician or enchanter or
astrologer. What the king asks is too difficult. No one can reveal
it to the king except the gods, and they do not live among
humans.” This made the king so angry and furious that he
ordered the execution of all the wise men of Babylon.
Daniel gives glory to God for the dream and it's interpretation
Daniel 2:17-19, 24-28, 46-47 NIV
Then Daniel returned to his house and explained the matter to
his friends Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah. He urged them to
plead for mercy from the God of heaven concerning this
mystery, so that he and his friends might not be executed with
the rest of the wise men of Babylon. During the night the
mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision. Then Daniel praised
the God of heaven... Then Daniel went to Arioch, whom the king
had appointed to execute the wise men of Babylon, and said to
him, “Do not execute the wise men of Babylon. Take me to the
king, and I will interpret his dream for him.” Arioch took Daniel
to the king at once and said, “I have found a man among the
exiles from Judah who can tell the king what his dream
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 29

exiles from Judah who can tell the king what his dream
means.” The king asked Daniel (also called Belteshazzar), “Are
you able to tell me what I saw in my dream and interpret
it?” Daniel replied, “No wise man, enchanter, magician or
diviner can explain to the king the mystery he has asked about,
but there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries. He has
shown King Nebuchadnezzar what will happen in days to come.
Your dream and the visions that passed through your mind as
you were lying in bed are these… Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell
prostrate before Daniel and paid him honor and ordered that
an offering and incense be presented to him. The king said to
Daniel, “Surely your God is the God of gods and the Lord of
kings and a revealer of mysteries, for you were able to reveal
this mystery.”
Daniel interprets mysterious writing on a wall for the next
king
Daniel 5:5-7, 23b-30
Suddenly the fingers of a human hand appeared and wrote on
the plaster of the wall, near the lampstand in the royal palace.
The king watched the hand as it wrote. His face turned pale and
he was so frightened that his legs became weak and his knees
were knocking. The king summoned the enchanters, astrologers
and diviners. Then he said to these wise men of Babylon,
“Whoever reads this writing and tells me what it means will be
clothed in purple and have a gold chain placed around his neck,
and he will be made the third highest ruler in the
kingdom.” ... Then Daniel answered the king, “You may keep
your gifts for yourself and give your rewards to someone else.
Nevertheless, I will read the writing for the king and tell him
what it means. ... But you did not honor the God who holds in
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 30

what it means. ... But you did not honor the God who holds in
his hand your life and all your ways. Therefore he sent the hand
that wrote the inscription. “This is the inscription that was
written: mene, mene, tekel, parsin. “Here is what these words
mean: Mene: God has numbered the days of your reign and
brought it to an end. Tekel: You have been weighed on the
scales and found wanting. Peres: Your kingdom is divided and
given to the Medes and Persians.” Then at Belshazzar’s
command, Daniel was clothed in purple, a gold chain was
placed around his neck, and he was proclaimed the third
highest ruler in the kingdom. That very night Belshazzar, king of
the Babylonians, was slain, and Darius the Mede took over the
kingdom, at the age of sixty-two.
After this the Persian king Darius takes over, and the plot to kill
Daniel in the lion's den begins, culminating in a third pagan king
seeing the Lord's supernatural power through Daniel.
The Takeaway:
Daniel is a man whose faith was strong despite his cultural
surroundings. He was not able to control the captivity, but he
kept his faith in the midst of the fallout. Likewise today, we may
not be in total control of our home, work, social, or cultural
environments, but we can look to the Godly character of Daniel
as an example to emulate. We must be faithful to Christ
regardless of our cultural surroundings.
Hall of Heroes -Catalyst Page 31