The Lord says that you have put our boundaries in pleasant places. So we sing Hallelujah. We bow before you. Receive our worship today. Receive our praise of God. It comes from grateful hearts. Hearts that are thankful to be here today, to be alive, to have breath in our lungs, to have food on our table, to have clothes on our backs, to have a roof over our heads. We say thank you. Thank you God for protection. Thank you for protecting us even times when we didn't know we were being protected. Thank you for saving us. Thank you for small graces. Thank you for big graces, for big stuff. Thank you for every step of the way. Thank you for your many blessings. Thank you for your word that comes with power, that comes with strength. Touch our hearts. Transform us by the power of your word. That we will not leave this place the same way we came. This is our prayer today God. In Jesus name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Well, good morning. Good morning and welcome. Let's see if I got that right. Yep. Yep. There we go. Let's try that again. Good morning. Good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us to worship this morning. Daniel, worship team, thank you. That was amazing. Praise God. Here at Catalyst we are about one thing and that is loving people to life change. So if you are here this morning and you're a part of our service, whether you happen to be here on campus or joining us online, I want you to know that as a church we love you. But we love you enough to tell you the truth. I don't want you to stay the same. I hope that every time that you enter the presence of the Lord, every time that you read the word of God, that you're changed in some way. That you're changed just a little bit more to be like him, to walk closer with him and to learn more about him. And one of the ways we accomplish that is by studying God's word together. So we're gonna be continuing my teaching series entitled The Hall of Heroes. So let me give you the key thought that's going to keep all of these messages connected. Here's our key thought. The life lessons of biblical characters are still relevant for us today. The life lessons. And I use this particular term intentionally because I want you to remember that whilst the stories of the characters we read in Scripture are themselves in the word of God, the humans that we read about are human. They're average everyday people. They live in a different time period than us. They live in a different country than we do. They live under different laws. But they're still people. They still experience fear, joy, sorrow, happiness. They had families. They had children. Praise Jesus they didn't have to teach teenagers how to drive, right? Any parents need a prayer request today? Yeah, come on. Yeah, that's a real thing. That's a real thing. You want to improve your prayer life? Teach a teenager how to drive. You will figure that one out in a heartbeat. So this morning, let me give you the title of our teaching this series this morning. Hall of Heroes, Esther. I love the book of Esther. We're gonna be looking at selected verses from Esther chapters 1 through 8. So if you brought your Bibles with you, whether they be physical or digital, I want to invite you to turn to the book of Esther. It's gonna be about two thirds through the Old Testament. And I want to give you a little bit of the backstory so you understand. Because a lot of Christians are very familiar with the first few books of the Bible, and then kind of familiar with the middle of the Old Testament. And then towards the end of the Old Testament, things like kind of run off the rails. And then we kind of come back together again when we get to the Gospels. Because everybody knows Christmas and Jesus and Easter. So here's the 30,000 foot overview of the Old Testament. The book of Genesis, chapters 1 through 11, gives us primeval history. Where our world comes from, where God is, where humans sin, evil, solution. Everything we want to know about theology starts in the beginning of Genesis. About chapter 12, God chooses a really special guy. He's Abraham. He becomes Abraham. God chooses a nation. That nation goes into Egypt. Exodus, God calls the nation out of Egypt. Leviticus, he gives them a law, numbers. They walk through the wilderness wandering because they have a disobedience problem. Then you get to Deuteronomy. The law is repeated for the disobedient Jews. Then we get to the Judges period. Then they don't have a king. Or no, the Joshua period, they move into Canaan. Judges, they don't have a king. 1 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles. That's the monarchy period of Israel. God said, I want, or the people say to God, I want to have a king like all the other kids have. And God lets them have a king and then they find out that was a really bad call. And the kings do really, really bad things. After the first three kings, somebody tell me the first king. We talked about him last week. Who's the first king of the United Kingdom of Israel? Saul. After Saul came, David. After David came, Solomon. Then after Solomon, the kingdom fractures. You have a northern kingdom and a southern kingdom. The northern kingdom's name is Israel. The southern kingdom's name is Judah, right? Then for the rest of the Old Testament, God's people are living divided. They are no longer in unity. And they do some really, really wicked bad stuff. So much so that God says, okay, kiddos, I'm gonna put you in a time out. You need a break. You've apparently forgotten why you get to live in this wonderful land that I've given you and these blessings that I've given you. So I'm gonna put you in a time out. And God uses the nation of the Assyrians and the Babylonians to move his people out of Canaan. And that's called the exilic period. It's when God's people are in exile. So I need you to understand two things. As we dive into the exilic period here, and that's, I mean, that's where we're going. God's people are living in exile. Two things I need to understand. Number one, God's people are still God's people. He has never forgotten his people. He has never forgotten his promises. Number two, God's people do get disciplined by God. All right? So now, with that in mind, we're gonna go into that exile period. We've already been through David and Solomon. We've been through the divided kingdom. And now we're in exile. Here's the preface I need you to understand to the book of Esther itself. First, the book of Esther is the most debated book in all of the Bible. There are 66 books in the current Holy Bible. They've been that way ever since the Holy Spirit revealed them to the church. But there has been no book that is more disputed than the book of Esther. In fact, the famed reformationist Martin Luther, he actually tore the book of Esther out of his Bible because he did not believe it was inspired by God. I'm gonna tell you why and then I'm gonna answer it for you. The reason many people have disputed the book of Esther's inclusion in the scripture is God is not mentioned by name. His name, whether it be Yahweh or Elohim, is not mentioned in the text of the book of Esther at all. And so, some people have said, well, well, if God's name's not in it, then God's not in it. Really? Like, is that where we're gonna go? God's name's not in it? I think, and I challenge you this week, go home and read the book of Esther. It's a short book. I think you will clearly see God at work. And that's why I wanted you to understand the history of the exile period. I think God's name not being mentioned is part of the lesson we're supposed to take from the book. That God loves his children even when they're in discipline. I mean, parents, have you ever felt that way? You don't necessarily have to raise your hand, but you can elbow your neighbor, right? You've had to discipline your child. Does that mean you all of a sudden disconnect and stop loving your child just because I have to correct them? No. That's why we have the phrase, this is probably gonna hurt me more than it hurts you, but I'm gonna do it anyway. Right? I think the lesson we should take from the book of Esther is not that it should be concluded in Scripture, but that God loves his people so much that he can work providentially in the background and still bring about a godly result. So, that's that. And number two, the book of Esther is the reason for the annual Jewish holiday of Purim. So, if you've ever heard of a Jew today celebrating the holiday of Purim, this story we're gonna look at today is where that holiday comes from. Alright, so that's my introduction. Now, let's get into the setting of the book of Esther. So, here's the setting. God's chosen people are in exile in a pagan, unforgiving, and foreign land. And I'm gonna have the text on the screen, but I just want you to see where it comes from. I've got a bunch of selected verses here, the beginning of chapter 1, 10 through 12, 16 through 18, and then the beginning of chapter 2. I've done this because if I read the entire book of Esther, we're gonna be here till dinner time, but I need you to see the big picture. So, let's start Esther chapter 1. Here we go. At the time, King Xerxes reigned from his royal throne in the citadel of Susa, and in the third year of his reign, he gave a banquet for all his nobles and officials. Pause. That's the very opening to the book of Esther. Do you know what the Holy Spirit's done here? He's immediately inserted us and knows exactly where we are in world history. So, also, if you're reading in your Bible and you don't see this name right here, right? Xerxes. Xerxes is the Greek name for the king of Persia at this time. Your Bible may also have a Hazarosh. It begins with an H-A-H-A-S-U-E-R-U-S. Anybody has that? That's Hebrew name for the same guy. And in case you really have an old Bible, Kisharsha, K-H-S-H-A-Y-A-R-S-A, is his Persian name. All three names are the same dude, okay? So, you can call me William, you can call me Bill, you call me Willie. Don't call me Billy, right? I'm the same person, right? Even though William and Willie and Bill and in Spanish, Guillermo, you can call me all of those things and they'd all be the same me. I just don't want you to freak out if your Bible has different names in it. Some Bibles are translated from different texts and they use different names. So, at the time, King Xerxes, whose King Xerxes the king of? The Persian Empire. So, the exile period starts with the Assyrians, then we have the Babylonians, and then finally the Persians. So, this is the very end of the Persian Empire and he's reigning from his royal throne in the citadel of Susa. This is the capital city where Xerxes lives and in the third year of his reign, he gave a banquet for all his nobles and his officials. Homey likes to party. That's my short abbreviation at the beginning of the book of Esther. Homey likes to party. On the seventh day, when King Xerxes was in high spirits from wine, way to go, he commanded the seven eunuchs who served him to bring before him Queen Vashti wearing a royal crown in order to display her beauty to the people and nobles for she was lovely to look at. Moving on. There we go. But, the attendants delivered the king's command. Queen Vashti refused to come. Now, before we move on, here's what I need you to understand. The Persians are a pagan nation, right? They do not worship the one true God. They worship their own gods. They also have some, let's just call them less than righteous practices. And women are not valued highly in their society as persons. They are more valued as objects, as things. So, you can see that here in the Persian view, the king is bringing his queen in not because his love for her, but he wants to show off the hotness of his wife. Everybody sees that. All right. So, now, here we go. Then, the king became furious and burned with anger. Why? Because queen didn't do what he wanted him to do. The king's personal attendants proposed, let a search be made for beautiful young virgins for the king. Let the king appoint commissioners in every province of his realm to bring all these beautiful young women into the harem at the citadel of Susa. Let them be placed under the care of Hegeia, Hegai, the king's eunuch who is in charge of the women. Let beauty treatments be given to them. Let the young women who pleases the king, excuse me, let the young women who pleases the king be queen instead of Vashti. This advice appealed to the king and he followed it. So, the Persian king's basically throwing a drunk party. He invites the Persian queen to show up, to show off how attractive she is. She basically responds and says, I'm up here. Right? He does not take that very well. And he goes, and then the servants go, well then fine. Let's get somebody younger. So, the story opens in a pagan nation with the queen refusing to be treated like a piece of meat, getting replaced by a younger version. I don't know how to better spell out the extreme chauvinism in the Persian Empire. But you can see, I mean, this is the way the word of God records the Persian Empire. But what I need you to see is this chauvinism because I believe it plays a huge part in seeing God's hand move through the story of Esther. So, ladies, I'm not saying that this is how we treat you today. I am saying this is what scripture says about the Persian Empire and so it's okay if you get a little offended. Because the hero of this story is going to be a young girl. So, just hang with me. Captain Marvel's on the way. So, now we move forward. Next thing I want you to see, even in exile, God's favor is on Esther. We're going to go to Esther chapter 2 verses 5 through 9. Now, there was in the citadel of Susa a Jew of the tribe of Benjamin named Mordecai. Among those taken captive with Jehoiakim king of Judah, Mordecai has a cousin named Hadassah. Now, pause for a second. In your Bible, long press, underline, highlight, do what you need to do. This is Esther's real name, Hadassah. See, when the Babylonians and the Assyrians and the Persians moved people into their country, you know one of the first things they did was change their names, right? So, how many people have ever heard the story of Daniel and the lion's den, right? Daniel's names actually Daniel's. Anybody know what his Babylonian name was? Belteshazzar. Points, all right? Anybody ever heard of the people Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, right? You ever heard that Bible story? Fantastic. Those are their Babylonian names. They're not their Hebrew names. Anybody know what the Hebrew names are? I can't remember off the top of my head. I just had them because I was reading it the other day with Pastor Paul. Hananiah, Azariah, and Mishael. Thank you, Daniel. Points. So, here's what I need you to see. The very first thing culture does when it tries to transform God's people is change their names, change their identity, change the way they see themselves. Hadassah is Esther's given name. Esther is what she's known as because the book is Esther and she's in the Persian Empire. So, Esther or Hadassah is the cousin of Mordecai whom he had brought up because she had neither father nor mother. Scriptures don't say what happened to her mommy or her daddy. But at the point at which the story opens, we're in the Persian Empire. Hadassah is living with her cousin who's older than her. So, you kind of get a Uncle Tenis view of it, but they're actually cousins. This young woman was also known as Esther, had a lovely figure, and was beautiful. So, what are we doing here? We are setting up God's favor on Hadassah, on Esther, in a culture that values beauty. And I don't think value and beauty is wrong. I don't think beauty should be an idol. I don't think it should be idolized. But God is now putting the right woman in the right place. So, now we keep moving forward. Mordecai had taken her in as his own daughter when her father and mother died. When the king's order and edict had been proclaimed, many young women were brought to the citadel of Susa and put under the care of Haga'i. Esther was also taken to the king's palace and entrusted to Haga'i who had charge of the harem. She pleased him and won his favor. So, at this point, our heroine, Esther, she is scooped up and brought to the palace and citadel with a bunch of other pretty ladies to compete to be the winner. It's basically like the biblical version of the bachelorette. Okay? We're gonna bring... I mean, I know that sounds funny, but think about it. What is the bachelorette really about? A bunch of... No, actually the bachelorette stars one woman. It'd be the bachelorette. Excuse me, I apologize. You can see how much I watch reality TV, right? It's basically like the bachelorette except it's king Persian version. All of these beautiful women are brought to the citadel at Susa to replace the one queen who didn't want to be trotted out because she was beautiful. You see the irony there? I'm gonna find a beautiful woman who doesn't mind being treated like a piece of meat to replace the beautiful woman who knows her own value. That's the backstory here. So, then we keep going forward. Immediately, he provided... Who is the he here? He is Haga'i, the servant who's over the harem in the Persian palace. Immediately, he provided her with beauty treatments and special food. Wow, this sounds an awful lot like when Daniel was brought to Babylon. And he said, No, no, no, no. I don't want to eat all the mess that you guys eat. How about you let me and my friends just eat this and test us in two weeks? Esther is not only given beauty treatments but given special food. He assigned her seven female attendants selected from the king's palace and moved her and her attendants into the best place in the harem. Now, when we talk about God's activity in the world, right? So, if God is the all-powerful creator, does he have the power to move once creation is done? Yes or no? Yes, he does. What do we call it when God steps into creation and he does something special? Miracle. That's one definition. There's another one and it's often confused for miracle. Providential. So, a miracle is when God steps into creation and he does something that overrides our natural system of laws. Like, oh, I don't know, bringing someone back from the dead. Walking on water. Calming the seas, right? That is when God as the divine creator who exists outside of our world and universe steps into our world and universe and overrides a natural law. Like a lot of people will tell you, God, miracles don't happen because they're a violation of natural law. Like that's the Humean, you know, if you ever heard of the philosopher David Hume, he often argued that miracles are impossible. I would respond, you know, apologetically, I would respond and say, well, if it's a natural law, who made the law? Like laws imply lawmakers, where'd your natural laws come from? In reality, your latronauts are nothing more than a description. But parents, let me ask you a question. Has anybody ever been driving a car and you have your child seated next to you on the passenger side and you know you have to immediately hit the brakes in order to not hit something? What do you do? Right? You reach out, you put your hand out. Did you stop the first of gravity? Did you stop Norton's third law of every action requires an opposite? No, what'd you do? You applied a greater force and it saved your child. That's what I want you to think about when you think about a miracle. A miracle is when God's hand reaches in and applies a greater force for something for our protection. This, however, this is all happening in the natural. So, I would not define this as a miracle as much as providential. God's like the master chess player and he's going, all right, pawn to E5, knight over here, Italian opening, this is how geeky your pastor is, right? Nobody probably got that. But it was a really good chess joke, I promise. Spent too many years playing competitive chess and not playing football, sorry. Immediately he provides her with beauty treatments. Why? Why does this Persian servant serving in the Persian Empire decide to give Esther extra broody treatments, special food, special servants, and the best place? You got two choices. You could see it as coincidental or you could see it as providential. It could be either one at this point. So, even for the skeptic, let's go ahead and say, all right, maybe just maybe it's all coincidental. Somebody had to be given the best room. If there's a hundred rooms in the palace and he brought in a hundred young hotties, somebody's living in room number one. Why do you think it's providential? Because it's Esther. Well, it's because I've read the rest of the book. But at this point, let's just pretend it's just coincidental. So, now we move forward again. Haman, by lot, chooses the day to exterminate the Jews. Now, I need to give a back story because we're jumping up here into chapter 3. So, just pause here for a second. Haman is the primary antagonist or villain or bad guy in the book of Esther. Haman is a pagan Persian servant. He gets appointed. He gets made special. Mordecai does not honor him, and so it causes a problem. So, watch this. After these events, King Xerxes honored Haman, the son of a really long name, the agatite, elevating him and giving him a seat of honor higher than all the other nobles. So, at this point, Haman is number one ranking noble in the entire Persian Empire. All the royal officials at the king's gate knelt down and paid honor to Haman, for the king had commanded this concerning him. But Mordecai would not kneel down or pay him honor. Then the royal officials at the king's gate said to Mordecai, why do you disobey the king's command? Day after day, they spoke to him, but he simply refused to comply. Why would a Jew, even living in a Persian culture, choose not to worship another man? Well, because, I mean, the Jewish law pretty much said, I am your God, have no other gods before me. Haman is interpreting this bowing down as an act of worship, and arguably, I would say that fits in with the understanding of pagan culture for the day that Haman is being appointed to a place where he needs to be revered and almost worshiped. And Mordecai is going, there's only one God. We worship him that way and nobody else. But do you see how culture has interpreted Mordecai's actions? He's being civilly disobedient. He is not obeying the law of culture because it contradicts with God's law, which gets us into the entire moral debate of when is it permissible to disobey government? We can have that debate another day. But Mordecai is not obeying the command because he is interpreting it through a lens of, I am not to worship anyone other than God. So now we move forward. Therefore, they told Haman about it to see whether Mordecai's behavior would be tolerated, for he had told them he was a Jew. When Haman saw that Mordecai would not kneel down and pay him honor, he was enraged. Yet having learned who Mordecai's people were, he scorned the idea of killing only Mordecai. Instead, Haman looked for a way to destroy all Mordecai's people, the Jews, throughout the entire kingdom. I mean that is a demonic thing if I've ever seen one. Haman is the highest noble in all of the Persian land and because he is dishonored by Mordecai, he chooses to kill all the Jews, not just Mordecai. That's why I feel very confident in my understanding that Mordecai's denial of bowing down had to be something greater than a personal conflict. It had to be not just, yeah bro, I don't like you that much. No, there had to be something deep down that links him to all the other Jews in the entire Persian Empire for Haman to go this level of scorched earth and want to kill all of the Jews. I believe the reason is Mordecai's disobedience came from the law and not worshiping anyone else, which every Jew would obey. And that's why we got to kill all Jews. Okay, moving forward again. In the 12th year of King Xerxes, so this is how many people remember what year it was in verse 1? Yes, right, three years. This is nine years. In the 12th year, first month, the month of Nisan, the poor, that is the Lot, was cast in the presence of Haman to select a day and a month. And the Lot fell in the 12th month, the month of Adar. Interestingly, all these months you see here, Nisan, Adar, they're months on the Jewish calendar, not the Persian calendar. So the writer of the book of Esther is being guided by the Holy Spirit to record the story through a Jewish lens because we're using Nisan and Adar and those are months on the Jewish calendar. But I do want you to see something. So the poor, this cast, he's throwing dice to decide. That's how carelessly he considered killing an entire group of people. Let's just pull out something. I mean, our standard, my children were playing Monopoly just yesterday on the floor in the living room. Each of those dice have six sides, right? So I'm just gonna grab up two six-sided dice. I'm gonna go, okay, we'll kill the Jews in. Twelve, all right. The Adar happens to be the 12th month of Jewish calendar. Twelve, all right. That's, and then he rolls the dice again to select a specific day. It was almost like it was a game. We're gonna be so haphazard and so lighthearted about killing an entire group of people that we're gonna cast lots in order to decide when. All right, so let me show you the next thing. Esther chooses to risk her life to save her people. Now we jump up here to chapter four. Now before we read this text, I need to tell you something very important that I cut out so that I could try to keep going here. In the Persian court, you were not allowed to approach the throne of the king unless you were invited. If you attempted to approach the Persian king without an invitation, the king had two choices. He could cut you off right there and have you executed, or he could extend a scepter to you and thereby saying, yes, I allow you into my presence. So this concept of Esther or Hadassah risking her life is very real. We just have to see it in which the historical culture in which it takes place. All right, so now here we go, Esther chapter four. When Mordecai learned of all that had been done, he tore his clothes. This is in response to the date being selected and Haman actually goes to Xerxes and gets Xerxes to write an official command that people who are loyal to him in every single town, they're gonna execute all of the Jews on the same day. So it's not like a war that just goes across. No, this was like Templar style. It was disseminated out through the entire kingdom and on a specific day, everyone's gonna open these secret orders and every town would kill the Jews that lived in that town. It was going to be a very efficient extermination. When Mordecai learns of this, he tore his clothes, he put sackcloth and ashes, and he went out into the city. What are these symbols of? This tearing clothes, this sackcloth, this ashes. This is a Jewish style of mourning. You see that? See the Jewish culture of the book? The author is expecting the reader to understand Mordecai is grieving. He's in grief over this, what's happening to his people. He went out in the city wailing loudly and bitterly. When Esther, I mean when Esther's eunuchs and female attendants came out and told her about Mordecai, she was in great distress. She sent, now what is she in distress about? I don't know yet. My cousin is really upset and he's in tears and he's freaking out. I need to understand. Plus let's get him some new clothes. He just totally tore his Nikes. Let's get him some new ones. She sent clothes for him and she sent clothes for him to put on instead of his sackcloth but he would not accept them. Mordecai told him, this is the servant going back and forth between Esther, Mordecai told him everything that had happened to him including the exact amount of money Haman had promised to pay into the royal treasury for the destruction of the Jews. Haman bought the privilege of extermination. Just hear that for a second. Haman made a nice big donation into the Persian treasury and bought the privilege of exterminating all of the Jews in the entire Persian Empire. So I mean there's a giant correlation here between Haman and Hitler. There really is. I mean I remember sitting at my grandfather's feet hearing stories of World War II. Like it's not that far gone on our history scale today that again the entire nation of Jews was being exterminated. This is back in the Persian Empire some seven to nine hundred years before Christ and this is still happening. So let's move forward one more. He also gave him a copy of the text of the edict. This is the edict that the king of Persia Xerxes signs authorizing the extermination of the Jews for their annihilation which had been published in Susa to show to Esther and explain it to her and told him to instruct her to go into the king's presence and beg for mercy and plead with him for her people. When Esther's words were reported to Mordecai he sent back this answer. Esther doesn't want to go. That's it. You can see here these little ellipses. These are every time I'm skipping passages to try to shorten the story. Esther originally doesn't want to go because she's afraid which I get it. I mean you're a young lady about to walk into a room where they can just as easily kill you as keep you. There should be some trepidation there. This is Mordecai's answer back to Hadassah his cousin. Do not think that because you are in the king's house you alone of all Jews will escape for if you remain silent at this time relief and deliverance for the Jews will arise from another place but you and your father's family will perish. Mordecai is dropping some serious level truth right here. He's saying two things. He's saying number one Esther whether you do this or not girl God's gonna save us because he's made some promises to us but if you don't stand with us he might not save you. That's really what he's saying. So now we move on again and who knows and here's the famous line from the book of Esther those of you know it and who knows but that you have come to the royal position for such a time as this then Esther sent this reply to Mordecai go gather together all the Jews who are in Susa and fast for me. Remember I said when you fast not if you fast Esther is a fantastic example of an entire congregational fast. Do not eat or drink for three days day or night and I in my attendance will fast as you do when this is done I will go even though it is against the law and if I perish I perish I mean this is some bravery coming out of a young woman who was selected just because she was pretty. So Mordecai went away and carried out all of Esther's instructions. All of the Jews in Susa did not eat or drink for three days. They were all fasting. Why? For favor for Esther for Hadassah because and I would agree with Mordecai she is placed in exactly the right. So let's come back to that question. How many details in a story have to line up before we can let go of the idea that it's coincidence and step into the reality that is providence. I would argue at this point Mordecai stood up for the law he refused to disobey Haman says we should kill all of the Jews not just one let's just kill them all here I'll pay for it and in the meantime there's this one young lady and she wasn't brought in because she was a Jew she was brought in because she was beautiful because she was pretty to look at the same exact reason why Queen Vashti was in her position like how many of these little things have to play out before we can see it as God's providence. So watch this here now we get to the end of the story and now the rest of the story. God saves Esther and slaughters Haman. This is Esther chapter 5 verses 1 through 4 and then we jump to 7 1 through 10. Watch this. On the third day meaning the third day of the fast that they just talked about Esther put on her royal robes and stood in the inner court of the palace in front of the king's hall. The king was sitting on the throne in the hall facing the entrance when he saw Queen Esther standing in the court he was pleased with her and held out to her the gold scepter that was in his hand. Right here Xerxes just saved her life that's what that is. You have to see it in culture see it why it's important why is he handing out a stick because this is his symbol of I accept you in my presence because if not the guards would have executed her right here. So Esther approached and touched the tip of the scepter then the king asked what is it Queen Esther what is your request even up to half my kingdom it will be given to you so then we fast forward. Then Queen Esther if I have found favor your majesty if it pleases you grant me my life this is my petition spare my people. The section that I just skipped and you can please go home it's a book read it. Esther doesn't directly make the request she says hey King how about you let me make you some dinner you know she's like a southern girl I'm not just good-looking I can cook up a storm right. How about you let me make you some biscuits and gravy let's get some bacon some pancakes some waffles yes it's almost lunch right. She makes this request and then she has him invite Haman she does that for three nights in a row cooking food and creating this social environment and then finally she lets it out your majesty if it pleases you grant me my life this is my petition spare my people this is my request for I and my people have been sold to be destroyed killed and annihilated if we had merely been sold as male or female slaves I would have been quiet because no such distress would justify disturbing the King. King Xerxes asked Queen Esther who is he who is he the man who has dared to do such a thing and Esther said an adversary an enemy this Haman by the time Esther Hadassah makes the request do you see how fast King Xerxes like yo who's threatening my girl because we got problems now well you got problems I'm gonna live right again coincidence providence I've got to say the way it's really on the providence side so now we keep going watch this then Harbono one of the eunuchs attending the King said you know what a pole reaching about 50 cubits stands by Haman's house he had set it up for Mordecai and excuse me he had set it up for Mordecai who spoke up to help the King the King said impale him on it stop another part of the story that I skipped that you really need to go back and read because it's amazing when it was time to kill all of the Jews Haman had set up a giant ash or a pole which is basically think about a telephone pole with a nice big spike at the top of it and the way the Persians would execute you is they would take you naked and sit you on the spike and let gravity pull you down as the spike impales you from bottom to top yep everybody just got uncomfortable it's totally okay and here's here's how vile how evil how demonic Haman was he wanted Mordecai to die slowly in front of his own house that's the vileness of Mordecai here's what happens though the King says go take him and impale him on it so they impaled Haman on the pole he had set up for Mordecai and then the King's fury subsided Haman ends up dying on the very device that he had made to kill Mordecai coincidence okay we keep going and here's the final thing I want you to know the Jews day of reckoning becomes a day of reward this is chapter 8 verses 5 through 8 and then also 11 and 12 if it pleases the King she said if he regards me with favor and thinks it is the right thing to do and if he is pleased with me let an order be written overruling the dispatches that Haman the son of long name and Agai despite who wrote destroyed the Jews in all the King's provinces for how can I bear to see disaster fall on my people how can I bear to see the destruction of my family go for again the King's Edict granted the Jews in every area so stop I skip the section here here's where I need to understand Hadassah Esther she asks the king of Persia he says please just veto your order pull it back and the king of purchase is I can't do that my orders are gold once they're written they cannot be reprimanded so now Esther's faced with a problem she's in the she's in the kingly court she's got the king of Persia's ear but Haman's evil cannot be undone so Esther makes the most amazing amazing move and she appeals to the king of Persia and says okay then King murders illegally under your loss give my people the right to defend themselves when they're attacked let them be able to fight for their own lives so this one the king of Persia grants the King's Edict granted the Jews in every city the right to assemble and to protect themselves to destroy kill and annihilate the armed men of any nationality or province who might attack them and their women and children and to plunder the property of their enemies so stop for just a second Haman sent out yeah yeah I mean just bro just take that one in right Haman sends out all of these letters to all of the different towns in the Persian Empire and they amass these mobs these lynch mobs that are ready to kill all of the Jews and the king of Persia he can't retract his order because that will be seen as weakness so Esther says fine then Mike my king if I found favor in your sight let my people assemble to defend themselves and the king of Persia goes one better he said you know what baby this is my interpretation right you know what baby girl you know I love those biscuits and gravy and I want more of them so I'm gonna not only let your people defend themselves you can keep anything that anybody who attacks you has from a random girl who was chosen merely because she was pretty and placed at the right place at the right time to make the right request the day that was supposed to be a day of destruction for the Jews becomes a day of plundering in the same way that when they left Exodus with Moses they plundered Egypt on the way out now that they are being sought after and being killed in Persia they're gonna plunder Persia as they kill everyone the day of the appointed Jews to do this and all the provinces of King Xerxes was the 13th day the 12 month the month of Adar the day that was supposed to be destruction became not only salvation from death but reward and that's here now let me show you the takeaway how do we this is a huge big story I really sped read through it there's so many other beautiful things in the book of Esther here's the takeaway even in exile God had not forgotten his people nor removed his protection and promises nothing we can do to separate us from the love of God or the promises of his word because of this love the final day of reckoning will be a day of reward for those who know Christ is Savior thank you Micah so now I need to I need to relate this to the study of end times it's called eschatology what is the study of end times this is one of the meat now let me ask after I said all of that do you think God is working in the book of Esther or do you think it's all just coincidence exactly right come on the fact that all of these details play out could not be coincidence it's statistically improbable could it be God working behind the scenes to protect and bless his people even while they're in timeout yes I believe that is exactly what the lesson of the book of Esther is so what's the lesson for you today here's what I need to understand Jesus dies on a cross in a d30 to save us from hell yes salvation purchased in the blood of Christ automatically saves from eternal damnation yes does it save from judgment no it does not you're exactly right in the book of Revelation there are two different judgments I'm gonna do it super fast the great white throne judgment is the go to hell or no hell judgment that's the eternity in smoking or non-smoking section that's that judgment but as a Christian if my eternal salvation has already been purchased I don't go here why because I'm already I've already got my get into heaven it's already been purchased by the blood of Christ I don't go to the white great white throne judgment because there is no chance that I can be judged as going to hell because my salvation was purchased by Christ right that's I mean that's the hope of the gospel but here's what you may not understand the great white throne judgment is only one of the two judgments in the book of Revelation the other judgment is called the Bema B E M A it's called the Bema judgment it's named after the Bema seat of authority of the Roman Empire where Pontius Pilate sat when he judged Jesus the Bema judgment those of us who are Christians who are saved who are eternal destiny is guaranteed to be in the kingdom of God you are not free from judgment you are freed from being judged to hell so if I don't get judged to go to hell pastor what am I being judged for thank you for asking let me Jesse thank you let me tell you so the Bema judgment is not a punishment judgment it's a reward judgment all Christians those who have already been saved from hell I don't have to worry about the punishment judgment but I still will face the reward judgment does anybody ever remember Jesus said store up for yourself treasures in where do you think the eternal reward ceremony happens the Bema seat of judgment Jesus himself now here's another scary thought your reward judgment is done by the Savior himself Jesus the King of Kings and Lord of Lords will sit on the Bema seat of judgment he will open the book of your life and he will judge your actions as a citizen in his kingdom I gotta tell you that's a whole lot more intimidating than I was ever taught as a child I was taught as a child believe in Jesus to go to heaven stop done yes but that's just the beginning of the story the rest of it is you and I who believe in Jesus today we will still face a judgment it is not a judgment of destruction it is a judgment of reward it is a judgment where our actions in this life will be judged by the King why because like it or not as a Christian you actually have dual citizenship I was born I love the fact that Daniel who's behind me now I tried to point to your empty chair that's how ADHD I'm like Daniel right there I was born a citizen in this country praise God I love my nation I was born with this citizenship when I was born again John chapter 3 I inherited a new citizenship and that's where the King who sits on a throne that's currently in heaven but I believe the Bible's pretty clear he's coming back and when he comes back I'm gonna be a citizen of that kingdom the difference is I'm gonna have to sit in front of the King's throne and have the actions of my life judged by the King himself and then he will reward me see here's the cool thing about the Bema judgment I'm not gonna go to hell but somebody's got to have trash duty in heaven right Jesus said I my father's house has many mansions some of us are gonna have that nice little three to the pool in the back and some of I say it lovingly but I want you to ask yourself this question I want you to reflect and ask yourself what do the actions of my life do when wade through the lens of the kingdom of Christ because that's the question that's gonna be asked of you when you face the Bema judgment Esther bought by going to the King not only salvation but blessing for her entire people I would argue Christ on the cross bought us salvation but at the Bema will give us blessing here's the cool thing you can have salvation and get no blessing if you don't live for him and here's where the difference between salvation and sanctification of all these big theological terms let me just break it down for you it's one thing to trust in Jesus to save you from hell it's another to live for him day by day because he's a king this is the one that gets the Bema judgment way over here just like Esther we need to stop thinking that salvation is not just save me from hell and we need to start reeling the salvation is saving into a kingdom that has a mission and a goal and a king and rewards that are on the way I say all the time I'm in non-pro like as a nonprofit ministry the retirement plan however is fantastic I've tried to give my life to preparing for my King's arrival do you do that or do you just come to church because trust me believing in Jesus will absolutely save you from hell but it's not the whole story I would love for you to be in heaven and get the three two with the pool and the dog right all dogs go to heaven Disney taught us that so you can have your pet so here's what I want you to do I want you to either pull out the connection card that's in front of you or pull out your cell phone this is the part of today's service where you have to respond where you have to engage and be a part if you came in this morning to hand out the ushers gave you you can scan the code that says and you can file a connect card my question for you today is twofold number one if you are listening to this sermon have you trusted in Jesus for your salvation yes or no because if not the great white throne judgment in hell awaits you that's not to be fearful it's just to be truthful however if you have trusted in Jesus for your salvation my follow-up question is do you live for him because if not you will still face the Bema judgment and you'll have to answer to the Savior for why you did nothing with the life he gave you I don't want you to face that I want to be truthful to you about what scripture says about what's coming in our future now if you happen to be watching this online and you don't have the connect card you can go to catalyst 302 comm slash connect you can file that connect card right on our website I want to hear from you have you trusted in Jesus and are you living for him one by salvation the other brings blessing both are intended for the life of a Christian so while you guys are filing your connect card ushers I'm gonna ask that you guys come forward we're also gonna worship the Lord in giving this morning every week I want to give you the opportunity to give to the Lord either in a tithe or in an offering to give back to the Lord from the money that he and the finances that he has given you be clear you are not buying your salvation this is the first time you happen to be listening to me teach whether you're on campus or online I do not believe in guilt-giving I believe the scriptures were clear we give to God because he has already given to us we don't give because of what he might give to us we give of our ties we gives our offerings because we give us an act of worship because he's blessed us so much so I'm gonna pray I'm gonna ask Daniel the worship team to lead us in a worshiply reflectful moment as we give and we worship the Lord I want to ask you are you living for Jesus heavenly father I love you I worship you I thank you thank you Lord that on the cross you bought our salvation and you have destined us for our blessing in your eternal kingdom Lord we give to you today as an act of obedience because you've told us to as an act of worship because you are worthy to be worshiped Lord receive all the gifts that are given today as worship given to you in Jesus name Amen