Well, good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being here and being a part of our service today. Here at Catalyst, we're about one thing, and that is loving people to life change. So if you are here and you're a part of our service today, whether you are physically in the building and you're with us on campus, or whether you're tuned in on our Facebook or YouTube and you are joining us online, you're a part of the Catalyst family. We want you to know that we love you. But we love you enough to tell you we don't want to leave you where we met you. We want you to change. We want every one of us to take a next step and grow in our relationship with Jesus. And one of the ways that we do that is by studying his word together. So we're going to continue our Hall of Heroes teaching series. And the key thought this morning is right here. It says, the life lessons of biblical characters are still relevant for us today. I think many times when we read the Scriptures, we read it with a reverent lens. And I don't think that's bad. I think the Bible is the word of God. And I think we should have reverence for the word of God. But the characters contained within the stories in the word of God weren't God. They were human. They were regular, everyday people. There's that theological word again, everyday. They lived normal lives. Maybe not with the same level of technology we have. Maybe not with the same clothing. Maybe not in the same country or even the same era. But they're regular humans. And I think when we read certain passages, we're tempted to kind of God-ize or saint-ize the way a character lives or the way a story goes. Because we're like, oh, well, clearly they knew God was at work. I don't always think that's true. I think there are plenty of times, just as you and I can be surprised by what God is doing, I think biblical characters can sometimes be surprised at what God is doing. And today I think is a great example of that. So this morning's message is entitled, Hall of Heroes, David. And if you brought your Bible with you, I'm going to ask you to turn with me to the book of 1 Samuel. We're going to be looking in verses 15 through 17. And I know some of you were here last week. You're like, whoa, he preached 40 verses last week. And now we're going to go two whole chapters. No, we're not going to do all of those two chapters. But I need the story within them to tell you the full picture that I want to share today. So we're going to be using selected verses from these two chapters as we walk through the story that is commonly referred to as David and Goliath. Now, before we get into the text, I want to say that I'm going to be using the story of David and Goliath. Before we get into the text, I want to give you... Nope, go back one. Wah! Right, just stay right here for a second. Before we get into the text, I want to give you a little bit of a preface. And that is this. The story of David and Goliath is not really about David and Goliath. So now I got everybody's attention. The story of David and Goliath, whilst it features a boy named David and a warrior named Goliath, they're not the only people in the story. And in actuality, they're not really what the story is about. It's a battle that takes place in a larger piece of scripture. I know many times when we come to the story of David and Goliath, we love the concept of facing our giants and how did David overcome Goliath. But if we need to rewind a little bit, the first question you should ask is, why did David have to face Goliath? That's a more important question. See, the context in which this story takes place is during the United Monarchy period of the Old Testament. So in brief, right, so if you're at the 30,000 foot view and you're looking down at the Bible, the first 12 chapters of Genesis tell us where everything's from. The rest of, I call it the back half, but it's really Genesis 13 all the way to the end. That's the story of the patriarchs. That tells us where Israel came from, God's promises, covenant relationship, all that jazz. Then you get to the story of the Exodus. That's Moses. God's people being redeemed from Egypt. Then you've got Leviticus, the book of the law, numbers, what happened during the 40 year wilderness wandering, Deuteronomy, the second law, because all the people who were born during the wilderness wandering needed to be reminded of what God said. Then you have Joshua, you have Judges, that period where they moved into Canaan but they didn't have a king yet. And then we make it to 1st, 2nd Samuel, 1st, 2nd Kings, and ultimately 1st, 2nd Chronicles. And that tells us the monarchy period of the Old Testament. It is in this period where God's people are living in their land, they have a king appointed by God to rule them, which was not God's design. So the first thing I need to understand, before we look at David and Goliath, is God's people are already living in disobedience because God was supposed to be their king. They said, I will be your king, I will be your god and you will be my people. And we'll be going to live like this every day. And they said, no, I want a king like all the other kids have. Because Israel looked out at all of the other pagan nations, and all of the other pagan nations had human kings. And they went to the prophet and they said, well how come we don't get one of those? My neighbors have one, the Midianites have one, the Philistines have one, why can't I have one? And God tells them, and you can read all of this, I'm giving you the overview of Samuel 1-15 before we get here. God tells his people, he said, listen, I'm going to go ahead and give you what you want, and you're going to hate it. Because see, a human king, he's going to tax you. He's going to take your sons and inscript them into his army. He's going to take your women and make them work in his fields and also for his court. He said, the reason I didn't give you a king is I was supposed to be your king. But since you don't want me right now, go ahead, I'll give you the human king you want. And so who was the first king in the United Monarchy period? Anybody know? Micah? Correct. Saul. A man named Saul. Not Saul of Tarsus, Apostle Paul. That's New Testament. There's an Old Testament Saul. Saul is selected by God to be the first king of the United Kingdom of Israel. Saul's a big dude, right? Saul is a very large man. In fact, if you read in the Scriptures, it says that Saul stood an entire head height over everyone else in Israel. He was a man's man. He was big dog. And because of that, he was given the responsibility to lead God's people, point them to him, and defend them. All of that is implicit in the job of being the king of Israel. Also, in case you didn't know, the king of Israel was required to read all of the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. That's right. All five of those books, he was required to read them and write his own copy to keep in his palace. Because God's king over his people was supposed to be there to point him to God. So with that understanding, United Monarchy period, Saul's the first king, Israel's already living in disobedience, and Saul is a giant among his own people, Now we jump into the story of David and Goliath. Here's the first thing I want you to see. Saul is rejected by God as the king of Israel. 1 Samuel 15, verses 1 through 3, and then 7 through 11. And I'm going to give them for you here in the NIV. Samuel, so who's this guy? This guy is the prophet of God at the time. See, in the Old Testament, the Holy Spirit fell on a specific individual for a specific purpose to serve God and tell God's people what they were supposed to do. He's the figurehead for God. Samuel said to Saul, I am the one the Lord sent to anoint you, king over his people. Another thing I need you to understand, at no point in Israel's history or in Israel's future has there ever been a king other than God. It has always been God's people, Israel. But because Israel wanted to whine like all the other kids, they're going to give him a human king. The Lord has sent me to anoint you, king over his people, Israel. So listen now to the message from the Lord. This is what the Lord Almighty says. So now there's a message from God through Samuel to the new king Saul. I will punish the Amalekites for what they did to Israel when they waylaid them as they came back from Egypt. Now go attack the Amalekites. Don't change the slide yet. And totally destroy all that belongs to them. This reference right here, they waylaid them. So the reason I did the back story so you remember, God's people come out of Egypt in the Exodus, right? And they're supposed to go to the land of Canaan. It would have been a direct path if the Amalekites would have allowed them to cross through their lands. But the Amalekites said, no. They're like, okay fine, so I guess we'll walk all the way around. Now God is punishing the Amalekites for not allowing his people through. Alright, so now let's go on. Do not spare them. These are the Amalekites. Put to death men and women, children and infants, cattle, sheep, camels, donkeys. Now we skip a little bit. Then Saul attacked the Amalekites. All the way from Havala to Shur near the eastern border of Egypt. He took Agag, the king of the Amalekites alive. Whoop. Was that what God said? Like I'm pretty, Jared, didn't we just read it? I'm pretty sure it was really clear. Kill everybody. Kill everybody. Now, I also need to make an apologetic point here. Because a lot of people have a problem with the Old Testament. Because they think God authorizes genocide. Here's what I need you to understand. What is the punishment for sin? What does the New Testament tell us? The wages of sin is? So when God judges sin, is that genocide or is that judgment? Right. So when we see God judging a people, in fact I could go all the way back to Genesis. And I could show you that God said to Abraham, I'm going to send your people to Canaan. But they can't go there yet because their sin is not there yet. All the way back to Abraham. God said, I'm going to judge the sin of those people. But it's not gotten bad enough yet. I'm going to try to see if they'll turn it around. They're not going to. But we're going to give them a chance anyway. So by the time God judges the Amalekites, he's already put up with their sin for a good long amount of time. So that's why God says, go take them all out. Here's King Agag, who's the human king of the Amalekites. And he took Agag, king of the Amalekites, alive, which is now disobedient to what God said. And all these people totally destroyed with a sword. But Saul and the army spared Agag and the best of the sheep and cattle, the fat calves and the lambs, everything that was good. These they were unwilling to destroy completely, but everything that was despised and weak, they totally destroyed. So what is Saul doing at this point? Saul's taking the spoils of war. He's saying, wait a minute. God said we're supposed to kill all this stuff, but I mean, that's a brand new Apple Watch. Why can't I just take that? Hey, I mean, that's a brand new Tesla. I want that. And what he does is he gets distracted by the monetary value. Now, taking King Agag isn't about monetary wealth. It's about virility and power. He wants to take the king of a foreign land and subjugate him in front of all of his people. Saul wants to make himself great. And he's going to do so by subjugating King Agag and also by stealing from the Amalekites. Now, what did God say? God said, no, you're not going to do that. I have judged the Amalekites. I'm sending you to operate my judgment. You are not to keep anything. Why? Because God, I'm your provider. That's the lesson that God's trying. And it happened in Joshua. If you go to the book of Joshua, they were fine at the Battle of Jericho because they walked around. They trusted God. The very next battle in Jericho or in the book of Joshua is the Battle of Ai. 32 Israelite soldiers lost their lives because one dude stole from the city of Jericho. That's like the short version of that first six chapters. It's really bad. His people never got on the hook that God is your provider. So, Saul completely disobeys God here and does not destroy that which is supposed to be destroyed. He keeps King Agag and he keeps all the fun spoils of war. So, then we go forward again. Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel. Who's Samuel? Samuel's the prophet at the time. He's the guy who represents God. I regret that I have made Saul king because he has turned away from me and not carried out my instructions. Samuel was angry and he cried out to the Lord all night. So, now I can show you. You can't properly understand the story of David facing Goliath until you zoom that really nice camera lens in your brain back and realize that the story of David and Goliath is taking place inside of the story of David and Saul. The story of David and Goliath is actually about David and Saul. Right? So, we've rewound back enough. Now, we see that Saul is rejected by God. He was chosen by God to be king, to protect God's people, to lead God's people, to point God's people toward him. And he sucked out loud and just failed miserably. Now, watch what happens next. We move on. David is selected by God as the king of Israel. See, a lot of people like to start the David story here. The problem is I need to explain to you why is God selecting David as king. Because God rejected the king he had already previously selected. Because that king did not live in obedience to God. So, now we follow through. Let's take a look at, this is chapter 16 verses 1 through 3, 7, and then 11 through 13. Then the Lord said to Samuel, there's this dude again, prophet of God, how long, I love this, how long will you mourn for Saul since I have rejected him as king over Israel? Do you understand what he's saying here? What he's really saying is, if you'll allow me the privilege to paraphrase for a minute. He's going, Samuel, how long are you going to sit here and pray for Saul? I've already told you he's out. I mean that's really what God is saying. He's going, Samuel, how much longer are you going to whine and complain about the guy that's no longer in charge? I've already rejected him. And by the way, I found a replacement. Can you get off your prayer mat now when we go back to work? He's still trying to figure out, oh God, oh God, why would Saul be such an idiot? Now here's a funny question. Do you think God didn't know Saul was an idiot? I think God gives us plenty of opportunities to do the right thing. And sometimes as humans, we just jack it up. And so here, God is telling Saul, or God is telling Samuel, I have rejected him as king over Israel. And then get what? Fill your horn with oil and be on your way. There comes a point where mourning's got to stop for ministry to begin. And that's where Samuel was at. He was mourning what was lost. And God was like, I have rejected him. That's done. And God was like, I have rejected him. That's done now. Get your horn, which is literally a ram's horn, fill it with oil and be on your way. Why is he going to fill it with oil? Because in order to anoint someone, you poured water, poured oil over their head. Now this pouring of the oil is a very big symbol in the Bible. It symbolizes several things. The first is, it symbolizes the presence and authority of the Holy Spirit coming over somebody. One thing you might not know is it also symbolizes the shepherding of God over the shepherd of his people. How? Because see, olive oil, they had lots of olives, you know, in this time, in this area. They had lots of olives. Shepherds would take olive oil and they would pour it over the head of the sheep and rub it into their ears so that flies would stay out of the ears of the sheep and not plant baby bug seeds in their ears. Baby bug seeds. That's a real technical term, I'm sure. So the pouring of the oil is both a symbol of the anointing of the Holy Spirit and a symbol of the shepherding of God over his flock. So he tells him, take your horn and be on your way. I am sending you, in the same way he just got sent after Saul, I am sending you to Jesse of Bethlehem. I have chosen one of his sons to be king. But Samuel said, how can I go? How can I go? If Saul hears about it, he will kill me. So first, Samuel's got a, I'm not ready to let go of my old king problem. And now he's got a, I think I'm a little too afraid of my current king problem. Samuel is so focused on Saul, he's missing what God is trying to do. So let's move forward again. The Lord said, take a heifer with you and say, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Invite Jesse to the sacrifice and I will show you what to do. So this is not exactly a lie. He is going to sacrifice, but God is using the mechanism of worship and sacrifice in order for Samuel to identify. Because Samuel is going to find the guy who's already been selected king and he doesn't know who he is. Just put that one in your brain blender and drink it for just a minute. God's already chosen someone. The only person who knows who this person is right now is God himself. Samuel has to go all the way there and wait for God to point him out. So was David pointed out when Samuel found out about it or before? Before. David was selected as king over Israel by God before Samuel knew who he was. Just because Samuel didn't recognize it doesn't mean the calling wasn't there. So invite Jesse to the sacrifice and I will show you what to do. You are to anoint for me the one I indicate. Are we very, very clear what God is doing? Now we skip. But the Lord said to Samuel, do not consider his appearance or his height. For I have rejected him. The Lord does not look at the things people look at. People look at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. Why is he mentioning this appearance and height thing? Because Saul was a big dude. The first man that God selected to be the king of his people was a man's man. A big, giant, burly soldier of an ant. The next man that God selects to be his people, king of his people, is a 17 year old shepherd. Out in the back 40. We went from Delta Force to newspaper delivery boy. That's what we just did. Now the question is, is God making a mistake by doing this? Let's ask a bigger question. Does God make mistakes? There we go. Alright, just making sure we're all with me. God is not making a mistake. He first chooses the common mental conception. When you choose a king at this time, had to go into battle first. He had to be toe in the line. This is Sparta up in your face. I'm going to defend my people. Now God said, okay, we did it your way. It didn't work. Now I'm going to select the shepherd that I want for my people. The Lord looks at the heart. So he asks Jesse, are all these the sons you have? See Jesse had more than one son. He's looking at all the big boy brothers of David and none of them are right. He says, there is still the youngest Jesse answered. Let's go forward. He is tending the sheep. Samuel said, send for him. We will not sit down until he arrives. This is pretty presumptuous. Samuel rolls into town with the effort to sacrifice. He invites everybody to the sacrifice which is part worship and part feast. It's like communion snack but on a much bigger scale. And he invites all these people. And Jesse did not invite his youngest son to the worship event. He left him out watching the sheep. Now there's two reasons for this. Number one, David is the youngest which means he is the lowest ranking in his family. Number two, the sheep represent the monetary investment of the family. If you are a sheep herding family and all your sheep die, all your investment is gone. So David was left out to protect the sheep while the rest of his brothers came in to be interviewed to be king. Send for him. We will not sit down until he arrives. So he sent for him. He had him brought in. He was glowing with health and a fine appearance and some handsome features. If I could rephrase this, ladies, he was hot. Okay. That's what the writer of 1 Samuel is letting you know. Girls, this man's got it. Then the Lord said, rise and anoint him. This is the one. So Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the presence of his brothers. And look at this. From that day on. I don't care if you circle, underline, long press, highlight, do something. These four words right here is what the entire story of David and Goliath hinge on. From that day on, the spirit of the Lord came powerfully upon David. See, you can't understand David facing Goliath until you understand Saul was selected, Saul was rejected, and now David is anointed. Now, what's interesting is David is anointed king over all Israel and goes back to his father's sheep. It's going to be another 13 something years before David finally takes the throne. He's going to be hunted by Saul. Saul's going to go crazy. Then David's going to move into the palace and he's going to bring his guitar. He's going to be like Daniel. He's going to play some super cool riffs and all of a sudden minister to Saul. I didn't make that up. I promise it's actually in there. As a guitar player, I see David doing this. He was probably playing a lyre more gently, but to me the Marty McFly sounds better. So David goes into the hall. He serves Saul and then eventually he will reach the office that he was anointed for here in this passage. Now we go in again. Goliath issues a one man challenge. Now this is super important. Remember the story of Goliath takes place in the midst of the David and Saul replacement story. Goliath issues a one man challenge. Let's look at chapter 17, the verse 11 verses. Now the Philistines gathered forces of war and assembled at Soka in Judah. They pitched a camp at Ephes Dabim between Soka and Ezekiah. You can just put in cities there. And Saul and the Israelites assembled and camped in the valley of Elah and drew up their battle line to meet the Philistines. Stop. This is not warfare like you and I have today. I need you to think more like a chess board. You've got all the forces on one side, then there's an open battlefield and all the forces on another side. At this point in Earth's history, warfare is still done man to man combat. We haven't made it to the Greek and Persian era where the Spartans will invent the phalanx and then they'll fight as a unit rather than individuals. We haven't made it to unit focused combat yet. This is still man to man. This is still a crowd of people from here and a crowd of people from here. And Jim, somebody's left standing when we're done and that's how we call the winner. Like this is full, brutal, bloody. And the problem is they don't have standing armies like you and I have today. The people who are fighting in the army are the men from the towns who left their families, who left their farms, who left their sheep and picked up their weapons to defend their country. There is no paid professional army right now. So what happens if I take 30 or 40 guys from here and 30 or 40 guys from here and Jim and I are the only two left? Well then that means 60 to 80 people lost their lives. That means lots of family businesses are going to go under. So in order to go to war in this time in human history is a very costly affair. It's very dangerous. They line up the Philistines occupied one hill and the Israelites another with the valley in between them. That's where the battle is going to take place. A champion named Goliath who was from Gath came out of the Philistine camp. His head height was six cubits and a span. Next one. He had a bronze helmet on his head and he wore a coat of scale armor of bronze weighing 5,000 shekels on his legs and he wore bronze greaves and a bronze javelin was slung on his back. His spear shaft was like a weaver's rod. I'll explain that in a minute. And his iron point weighed 600 shekels. His shield bearer went ahead of him. A lot of biblical descriptions here. Let me just explain this. Homi's really big. Right? I mean Nate, does that make it really clear? Homi's really big. He's wearing the finest armor of his day. Because he's so big, because he's so strong, he is covered in basically overlapping metal. They didn't quite have chain mail yet so they have these overlapping metal scales. Why do I need the scales? Because the scales can flex when I need to move but still stop incoming projectiles. Still stop a spear. It'll stop a sword. And so the majority of all of his internal organs just like our soldiers or our police officers today will wear a Kevlar vest. Right? The Kevlar is designed to protect all of the really important organs. Right? I don't want to get shot because I need my tummy for ice cream. This is important. Also when we describe his scale armor weighing five, that's the weight. He is wearing the best of the best. Not only is he a giant muscular man, he is also wearing the best of the best military technology he has. Where does it say? His bronze javelin was slung on his back. His spear shaft was like a weaver's rod. So you get the fact that a spear is a really, really long thing. Right? It's designed for throwing. That's why a spear or a javelin. The weaver's rod, they used, they had sheep, they'd spin it in the yarn. A weaver's rod is like the size of a baseball bat. To use a modern day analogy. His spear was the diameter of a Louisville slugger. Yeah. Just soak that one in for a second. The spear is usually the same height as the soldier. So his spear is as big around as a Louisville slugger and six and a half feet long. That's a big piece of metal. And then on the end of that big piece of metal is the iron point weighing about 600 shekels. And his shield bearer goes ahead of him. His armor is so heavy, he doesn't even carry his personal shield into battle. He has a shield bearer or an armor bearer, if you've ever heard that term, armor bearer who goes ahead of him. And his shield was massive. You make sure, yep, so now we go forward again. Goliath stood and shouted at the ranks of Israel. Why do you come out and line up for battle? Am I not a Philistine and you are not the servants of Saul? Choose a man and have him come down to me. If he is able to fight and kill me, we will become your subjects. But if I overcome him and kill him, we will become our subjects and serve us. Do you notice Goliath's challenge is for mano a mano combat? One guy. Who is supposed to be the one guy who defends Israel? Saul, the king. The king who is also equally tall, equally buff and has equal armor. Same military technology. Saul is supposed to be the one who answers this Philistine charge. Notice what he says. There's no reason for, and Goliath's being a little wise right here. He knows I'm the biggest, I'm the baddest. You guys, whoever they send, I'm going to trounce. And then I save all the rest of my countrymen from getting hurt. They can all go back to their farms or whatever. And the stakes of their one-on-one combat is the winning of the entire war. If Goliath wins, all of Israel becomes enslaved. If the other person wins, or this is supposed to be Saul, if Saul wins, then they'll all be slaves to Israel. Now you've got to ask yourself the question. Do you think Goliath is willing, or do you think his countrymen are willing to put Goliath up in front and say, yeah, we'll totally be your slaves if Goliath wins? If they didn't have absolute faith that Goliath was going to absolutely stomp whoever Israel put up. Right? This is how sure of themselves they are. So then we go forward again. Watch what happens. Then the Philistines said, this day I defy the armies of Israel. Give me a man and let us fight each other. On hearing the Philistines' word, Saul and all the Israelites became dismayed and terrified. Saul, at this moment, has already been rejected by God, and now is rejecting the responsibility that he was given as king. See, notice he's rejected by God, but he's still the king of Israel. He's still in the office. He's still doing the job, but he's no longer doing the job with God's anointing on him. That anointing has passed to David. So watch what happens next. David and Saul saw the Goliath problem differently. This is chapter 17, verses 24 to 26. Whenever the Israelites saw the man, they all fled from him in great fear. Now the Israelites have been saying, do you see how this man keeps coming out? Yeah, by the way, I've got to mention Goliath comes out day after day after day, issuing the same challenge. This is not like a one and done. This is Goliath comes out every day and beats his chest and rattles his spear. Come on, man, let's fight. Let's do this. One man, he does it day after day. He comes out, and I need to see this, to defy Israel. The king will give great wealth to the man who kills him. He will also give his daughter in marriage and will exempt his family from taxes. How many people just said, I'll do it? I'm not sure who's more afraid, the IRS or Goliath? They're the people who collect taxes, man, in Israel. This is what I want you to see before I read the second part. Notice how Saul tries to solve the problem. Instead of Saul doing the job that he was appointed for and gearing up and going and fighting Goliath in order to honor God, he uses his influence and his wealth to get someone else to do it for him. What does he say? He says, listen, I'm going to give a lot of money and my daughter. That's still not enough? Okay, fine. How about no taxes? Who's down now? You see that? What do you get if you marry the daughter of the king? You're a part of the royal family, right? You marry into her family, not the other way around. She's the daughter of the king. I'm going to give you immense wealth. I'm going to make you a member of the royal house of Israel. And yet, by the way, you will never pay taxes again in your natural life. And no one said yes. Just get that. No one says yes. I do not think this is a comment on the beauty of Saul's daughter, just in case anybody was wondering. I think this is a comment on how scary Goliath is. So Saul's way is to use wealth and human influence to solve the problem. David asked the man standing near him, what will be done for the man who kills this Philistine and remuse disgrace from Israel? Notice this. Who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? Do you notice the difference in David's perspective? Saul's going, no, what do I have? What can I solve this problem with? I am too afraid to fight him. Listen, I got money. Hey, you're not married yet. Don't make any plans. Come here. And no taxes. All right. All three of these things together, I'm going to bribe someone to defend Israel. Keep in mind, Saul was the same size as Goliath. He stood a head height higher than all of the other Israelites. This should have been an easy one-to-one contest. But Saul goes the earthly route. He tries to solve it with human influence. And here comes David and he points out this uncircumcised Philistine. What is he referring to right here? He's referring to the Abrahamic covenant, right? What is circumcision in the Old Testament? Circumcision is the sign of the Abrahamic covenant. The Abrahamic covenant says what? I will be your God and you will be my people. I will bless those who bless you. I will curse those who curse you. I will give you this land and it will be yours for all time and you will be a mighty nation. David sees the Goliath problem through the lens of God's promises. Saul sees the Goliath problem through the lens of earthly monetary wealth and influence. This is why the story of David and Goliath is not really about David and Goliath. It's about David over Saul. David's rejected. Saul's anointed. Here we see that anointing coming out. Who is this uncircumcised Philistine that thinks he should defy the armies of the living God? Notice he doesn't say who thinks he should defy me and my people, right? David is not relying on the military power of Israel. He is relying on the sovereignty of the living God who's made a covenant with Israel. It is God's job to defend Israel. David gets it. Saul does not. This is why it's about David and Saul. So we move forward again. David and Saul solved the Goliath problem differently. Now we go to verses 33 through 40. Yes, but very good looking. Don't forget that. And he has been a warrior from his youth. So here's the first thing. Saul looks at David and says, come on kid. Like he's been slaughtering people longer than you've been breathing. You're a young man. He is a trained soldier of war. But David said to Saul, this is my favorite part of the story. Your servant has been keeping his father's sheep. When a lion or bear came and carried off a sheep from the flock, I went after it. I struck it and I rescued the sheep from its mouth. When it turned on me, I seized it by its hair, struck it and killed it. Right? Like just take, my son is the only one who went, whoa. Just take that in for a minute. David's training was in protecting sheep, not in ruling as a king. Now I want you to see another thing here. David's analogy uses predator as an example, right? So let me ask you a question. Put yourself in David's shoes. You're out in the back 40 one day. It's like today, it's hot. You really need to have that wine skin of water with you. Up comes a lion and carries off one of the sheep. Do you in this moment think to yourself, Heavenly Father, I am so thankful for this opportunity to chase down this lion. Lord, I know that you're preparing me for greater things. I know that I will kill this lion with my bare hands. Lord, I just worship for you as I go. Like be real. Come on, man. No. What was he probably thinking? I fear my daddy more than I fear the lion. Let's go. Right? My job is to care for the sheep. I answer to my daddy if the lion takes the sheep. So here I go. I do not think David as a teenager stood in front of a bear and said, God, thank you for the preparation. That doesn't make sense. That's why we need to remember the characters in the Bible are real human people. Does that mean that he couldn't look back on it now? Sure, hindsight's always 20-20. King Saul, I did the bear and the lion bare handed. I got this. No. When he stood in front of the bear or the lion, he didn't know what was coming. But God did. God knew the future he was preparing him for. So here's the super revelatory part of today's sermon. You might be living in the lion or bear moment of your life right now. Don't neglect your future just because your present is scary. Because in this moment, David's looking back to the lion and the bear saying, I did that because I was told to be a protector. I had to face the lion and the bear. He didn't face the lion and the bear preparing to be king. We get to know that because we get to see his whole story. I can just press the fast forward on the Bible and go seven chapters into the future. But you and I can't do that in our everyday life. You today might be facing down a very scary bear. Are you facing that bear in the strength that if God has allowed it, then that means it is for my benefit in some way. Even if I don't get it. That's the hard one for me. I'm an intellectual. I have to think things through. When I don't understand what God is doing, I whine like a toddler. Yeah, I mean come on. Somebody can be real. This is my filter for understanding what God is doing and interpreting what God is doing. My wife has to tell me all the time, put your brain down and just close your eyes and listen with your heart for a minute. The Holy Spirit is trying to talk to you and you're trying to out think what God is doing. Yeah, I do it all the time. I'm the guy that would be facing down the bear going, okay, it's like 270 pounds and this sticks only about six feet long. Like I'd be so thinking it through, I'd be missing what God was doing. Here, David, we get the benefit of looking back at David's story. But you and I are living in the moment of our story. If you're facing the lion or the bear today, don't forget that God is going to use this in some way that I can't tell you because I don't have the gift of prophecy and there's not a crystal ball. I don't know how God's using your current circumstances to prepare you for the next one. But I guarantee you that he is. So watch this. He said, your servant killed both the lion and the bear. This uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them. Why? Because he's threatening God's flock. David didn't need to think like a soldier. He needed to think like a shepherd. He didn't give in to the cultural idea that in order to be a soldier, I have to think like a soldier. No, I have to think in the way God's prepared me. I think like a shepherd. Because, why? Because he has defied the armies of the living God. He doesn't face him because of the threat. He faces him because he's defied God. So then we go forward again. The Lord rescued me from the paw of the lion and the paw of the bear and will rescue me from the hand of this Philistine. Preach. Like that's it. David said, listen, this is no different than caring for my daddy's flock. It's just a different daddy with a different flock. Same job. Saul said to David, go and the Lord be with you. Right? I mean, doesn't that just sound funny to you? You're in this room and here's this king and he's got all this armor. He's got all this stuff. And David comes in talking about lions and bears and shepherding. He's like, okay, go with God. Then, look, watch. Saul's still trying to play control. Then Saul dressed David in his own tunic. He put a coat of armor on him, a coat of bronze helmet. David fastened his sword over the tunic and tried to get the lion to come out. He put the coat of armor on David's tunic and tried walking around because he was not used to them. Go forward. I cannot go in these, he said to Saul, because I am not used to them. So he took them off. He took his staff in his hand. He chose five smooth stones from the stream. He put them in the pouch in his shepherd's bag and with his sling in hand approached the Philistine. See, Saul was still trying to make David do it his way. Here, take my armor. Take my helmet. Take my sword. Do it my way. Why? Because I'm supposed to do this, but I don't want to, so I'll pay you and I'll give you my kid and I'll give you no taxes. But here, take my stuff so it still looks like I did it. Right? Saul's still trying to take credit for a victory that he's not even willing to do himself. And David's like, no, because this is not how I saved my father's flock. You're trying to make me be you. God's called me to be me. God's called me to be a different... And see, here's the thing. David also knows he's been anointed king. Don't forget. Right? That happened two chapters ago. David knows he's been appointed king. To be truthfully honest, I don't know if Saul knows yet. I don't. The only people who know are Saul, Samuel, Jesse, David, and the other people who were there that night, the brothers. Whether they said anything or not, I don't know. The scriptures just leave that part unknown. So he takes the tools of a shepherd to solve the problem of a king. The Goliath challenge is the public introduction to who is the rightful shepherd of God's people. David didn't need to face Goliath as a king. He already was the king. He faced Goliath as the shepherd of God's people because that's who God trained him to be. So here, I just want to go ahead and show you the difference between Saul and David. Look at this. Saul was the king. You can find that in 1511. David was a shepherd. 1611. Saul stood a head above the Israelites. You can find that in chapter 9, verse 2. David was young with beautiful eyes, ladies. Chapter 16, verse 12. Saul should have gone first to fight in battle. Look at chapter 8, verse 20. There it is. There's the reference. David was merely delivering food to his brothers. 1717. Saul ran in fear from Goliath. 1724. David volunteered to fight Goliath. 1732. Saul sees a man of war. 1733. David sees a predator of the flock. 1737. Saul trusted in man-made weapons and armor. 1738. David trusted in the Lord. 1745. Saul was a failure. 1755. David was victorious. 1750. So here's how this wraps up. This story is not about facing a giant man, but replacing a defiant king. The victory of Goliath is not just... This really should have been over. I apologize. The victory over Goliath is not just about facing giants, but about the rise of David and the rejection of Saul. Saul's sin disqualified him. The conflict with Goliath shows David is God's chosen shepherd for his people. That's what the story of David and Goliath is about. It doesn't mean that David didn't face down a giant. But when all you talk about is David facing a giant, and then try to directly apply it to you, you miss the bigger picture of what God's trying to teach us in this story. Sin will cause rejection and replacement. And your replacement may not always be the same way you are. Saul got replaced because of his defiance. He abjectly defied the directives of God. So God chooses David. Now, some of you are thinking, yes, David was a man after God's own heart, but didn't he do some pretty wicked stuff? Yes, he did. Please don't think that David... Young men, please do not go be David. Okay, let's just start with that. Don't go be David. David still basically raped a woman who was not his wife, got her pregnant, and then had the husband killed, and then married her, and miraculously she had a baby early, but by that point she was his wife and nobody could say anything. David still had a lust problem. That came a little later. Right now, David is doing the right thing, and I think it's another important thing to remember. Just like all of us, we can easily stumble into sin, even after being called to great things. The question is, do you get up, dust it off, and if you go to the David and Bathsheba story, Samuel confronts David and David repents in tears. David's heart was right, even though every now and again, David did make some mistakes. So here's my question for you this morning. Where are you in this story? Are you Saul? You know better, but you're living against what God wants you to do? You know that God's called you to do something, and you're just putting it on hold because you want the new Apple Watch, or the Tesla, or the ice cream, or whatever distracts you. Are you living in defiance together? Are you living in defiance to God? Are you a little bit like early David? It says, no, I know I don't need to do that. I need to do what God's called me to do. I need to be me, and that means resisting what culture tries to force you to do, and following what God has called you to do. Are you like later David? You've been called and you're still screwing up. I don't know. What I know to be true today is every one of us today, this morning, can take a step back into commitment to God, into our relationship with Jesus. So if you're here this morning, whether you're online or on campus, and you are listening to this sermon, I need you to know one very important thing. Jesus, when he was on earth, he said the most powerful statement, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Christianity makes a very exclusive claim. We claim that Jesus is the risen Son of God, and that it is only through him that right relationship with God can be had. Yeah, man, that's an exclusively extraordinary claim. If you're wondering why that's true, I would love to sit down and talk with you. I will give you all the historical evidence you need to understand the resurrection of Jesus actually happened. If you're not sure what Jesus did, that means Jesus is who he says he is, and what he said matters. So this is what I want you to do. I want everybody to pull out your cell phone or the connect card that's in the chair in front of you. So this is the response time in the service. So if you have your cell phone on the handout that the ushers gave you on the way in the door, there's a QR code all the way at the top. You can also scan this one right here with your phone, or you can take one of the connect cards that's in the back of the seat in front of you. I want everybody to fill out a connect card today. And this is not just so I can take your attendance, although that is one thing that it really helps us do. It helps us know when people come to church and when people miss so that we can reach out to them. But today, the connect card is your way to make a commitment. What are you going to do this week to take your next step in your relationship with Jesus? You may need to surrender to him. You may need to surrender that he is the beautiful, wonderful, powerful Savior. And you need to learn about that. Maybe you have a relationship with Jesus, but you're not living that way. You're still living more like Saul than David. That's okay. Every day you can make a change. Today can be the day where I'm going to start living for Jesus. Also, you can see there at the bottom, there's a way that you can ask for help. There's a way that you can ask for an appointment. If you're a teenager and you need an appointment with Pastor Paul, you can get it right there on the bottom of your card. If you'd like to have an appointment with me, if you have questions. I love questions. Can we just say that? I love questions because questions lead to answers and answers lead to understanding. I will never be afraid of any question you can ask me. As long as you give me permission that I don't know might be an acceptable answer, I'll need to go study and find an answer for you. But I love questions. I would love for you to ask your questions. What do you want to know about? So as you're finishing your connect card, I'm going to go ahead and ask the ushers to come forward. We're going to take this morning's tithes and offerings. Worship team is going to lead us in a closing song. And then we've got one other announcement. If you're joining us online and you would like to use a connect card, you can go to catalyst302.com slash connect. You can also go to catalyst302.com slash give in order to participate as we worship the Lord in giving today. In a Christian church, we do not give because we owe God. We give because He's already given to us. There's a difference. We're not giving to buy back blessings from God. We already live in the blessings He's given us and we're thankful. So today I ask you to give not because it affects me in any way. I ask you to give because the Bible says that's what those who love Him do. In the Old Testament, they gave sacrifices. They gave tithes of the different things they had. Today we give of tithes and offerings, sacrificially because we love God and because He's worthy of our worship. If you want to give electronically, you can do it there. There are also envelopes right there in the chairs in front of you if you would prefer to give in another method. So I'm going to pray and then ask the worship team to lead us in worship as we worship the Lord in giving. Heavenly Father, I thank you for your grace, for your power, for your understanding. Lord, I thank you that you have called each and every one of us to stand up and be true to you. Lord God, because you are the way, the truth, and the life. And you are the only way we can have relationships with our divine Creator. Father, we worship you today. We give our tithes. We give our offerings as an act of worship. We lay it at your feet in front of you because you are worthy of more than we could ever give. And we give to you today in your amazing and awesome, powerful and beautiful name. Amen.