Well, good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here at Catalyst Community Church. To all of you who are joining us via our online campus, good morning. I hope the weather is better wherever you are because it was rainy and just dreary this morning. Welcome. We are going to be continuing our series as you saw in the video on heresies. And I would like to just begin by giving you a few definitions. Sorry, I forgot to turn my iPad on before church started this morning. I want to talk to you about what heresy is so that we can best understand what we are talking about and what we are not. And if you remember from last week, we talked about orthodoxy, which is the correct teaching of the Christian church. Orthodoxy is like a highway, right? And within that highway, there are absolutely a few things within Christian doctrine that we as brothers and sisters are free to be able to disagree about. You know, it depends on which view of, for instance, which view of end times you want to have. You know what? We could debate that. Which view of the Holy Spirit's activity in the church you would like to have? We could debate that. But there are certain things that are foundational to Christian teaching and those things are not able to be debated. They are not open for debate. So let me give you the key thought that's going to hold these three sermons together. Here it is. Over the centuries, the church has overcome, sorry, over the centuries, the church has overcome many false teachings. Learning about them protects our theological health. So the church has overcome many false teachings. Learning about them helps protect our future theological health. And I didn't really key in on those last three words last week, but if we do not take the responsibility to properly teach Christian teaching in our generation, then the next generation doesn't learn it correctly. And then the generation after that suffers because we didn't hand it down correctly. So this is the idea behind this three-week study into heresy, is I want you to know that throughout our history, our tribe, the Christian tribe has been introduced to false teachings about Jesus and we have debated through them, we have studied through them, and we have rebutted them. And if we're not good, if we don't learn about what we need to learn about, then we're kind of doomed to repeat the same mistakes. And that is why I wanted to do this. So the proper definition of the word theology is the study of God, but the real like blue jeans, ball cap, walk down the street definition is the way we explain the things of God. Orthodoxy are correct Christian teachings. Heresy is anytime you depart from correct Christian teaching. So obviously the opposite of correct is incorrect. So heresy is anytime we teach incorrect things or we depart from correct things about Christianity. And my example is theology is kind of like a multi-lane highway. Orthodoxy is inside the lanes. You could be in the left lane, you could be in the right left lane, you could be in the right right left lane, the center lane, the mid right lane, the right right lane, and the outside right lane. There could be all these different lanes, but there are guardrails. There is a point where you leave the highway and you're in the shoulder or you're in the dirt. That guardrail is the difference between orthodoxy and heresy. So theology is a multi-lane highway of Christian teaching. Orthodoxy of the available lanes of travel and heresy is everything outside the guardrails. I also want to make sure I make a distinction between a heresy. Heresy is wrong teaching. A heretic is a person. A person is a heretic not only when they teach something wrong, right? Because it's totally possible that any teacher could be wrong on any one day. So we shouldn't label somebody a heretic just because they teach a wrong thing the first time. But when that wrong teacher is presented with correction and refuses to accept correction and stays teaching something that is wrong, that's when they become a heretic. I don't want to say that every single person who teaches falsely is a false teacher. Because what if I make a mistake? What if I accidentally teach something wrong? I have people in my life, you know, Dr. Doug's probably watching online right now this morning. One of my mentors, he's gonna challenge me if I teach something wrong. And I need to do a retraction and I need to do a correction. That doesn't make me a false teacher. It means I gave a false teaching and I receive correction and we move on. But someone becomes a heretic or a false teacher when they plant their flag on that wrong teaching and then they defend that wrong teaching. So Christian Orthodoxy teaches that Jesus is the incarnate God-man. Jesus is fully God and is also fully man. Last week we looked at the heresy of Ebionism or Ebionism and that was denying God's divinity in order to maximize his humanity. Today we are going to look at a different heresy that is the exact opposite. So this morning we will be looking at the heresy known as Docetism. Docetism teaches that Jesus was never a human being. Jesus was so divine. He was so fully God that it's impossible for him to have ever been a human being. In fact, Docetism would teach that Jesus was a apparition. He appeared to us to be human to the point that we couldn't make a distinction. But that he in fact never had a physical body. He was always a full-spirit being but he walked and he talked. And I think it's super just fortuitous almost a little funny that I was able to put this sermon on this particular day of the year because it gives me a great point. In the Star Wars films especially the later ones, the Jedi Masters who had fallen in movies showed back up as interactive holograms right? Everybody remembers the blue Obi-Wan or the blue Qui-Gon? That's Docetism. That's Docetism a la George Lucas. That is what Docetism is. That Jesus was never human. He was always only spiritual. He was always only God and he appeared to us like an apparition and he interacted with us and he taught us. Now, you're gonna have a lot of trouble with the Bible says he ate and he slept and he walked and he touched and all these other things. But Docetism if you would allow me a modern-day version, Docetism teaches not a human Jesus but a Jedi Jesus. And whilst that I got to admit that's very funny and I'm thankful that I was able to put it on Star Wars Sunday which is great. There are some very big problems that come with denying the humanity of Jesus. And the problem is here and I'm gonna go ahead and quote Dr. Doug here. Dr. Doug in his book said, Docetism is a philosophical argument with no evidence whatsoever and he is 100% true. Docetism is totally a philosophical argument. There is zero evidence. In fact the evidence from the first century would say no, Jesus was actually a human being. Like you ever thought how are you going to explain Mary giving birth to a not baby baby? I'm pretty sure Mary knew she was pregnant. Pretty sure Mary just like every other woman, Mary could feel that Jesus in her womb when the baby kicked and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. Like there was some physical nature there. Docetism would teach that Jesus was never really a baby that God somehow worked in Mary's mind and made her feel things that weren't real. Do you see how dangerous it becomes when we start thinking that God is a God of deception instead of a God of truth? So here's the key facts that you need to understand about Docetism and I realize I'm going through a lot of material very quickly. We're gonna use the connect card at the end of the service. You are free to ask me for my notes if you're watching online. Same thing. Anybody who wants my notes from today, I will freely email them to you tomorrow. But here's the key facts I want you First, Docetism is rooted in Greek thinking. In Greek thinking. Last week we talked about Ebionism was deeply rooted in Jewish thinking. This week Docetism is deeply rooted in Greek dualism. Physical matter is always lesser than spiritual matter. This is Greek dualism. They believed in a spirit world and a physical world. But in a Greek mentality, the spirit world was of a higher or greater nature than the physical world. And so this is why they say there's no way Jesus could have been human because we know that Jesus was divine. And since divinity is always greater than and better than physicality, there's no way God would lessen his spiritual nature to be in a physical nature. The implication is number two, Jesus never had a physical body. He was Jedi Jesus. He may have appeared to us to be real, but he never had a physical body. Which also means Jesus never experienced physical things like pain, hunger, or death. And that also means Jesus did not have a bodily resurrection because he did not have a body. And that last one is key. Because according to Docetism, Jesus was never a human being. He never had a physical body. That means he never died and it also means he never rose bodily. They would say all of that was spiritual. Even modern-day Muslims will teach that Jesus actually didn't die on the cross. Allah translated him with another human being because he was too good. He was too divine. It was not Jesus who died on the cross. He was swift-swapped. So instead of Jedi Jesus, you have like tag Jesus. Tag your it. I get to be Jesus, but you get to be crucified. So Jesus, according to Docetism, Jedi Jesus is a ghost, a phantasm, or a hologram. But he was never part of our physical world. Docetism over emphasizes Jesus's divinity at the expense of his humanity. Our modern-day versions of Docetism, these are a little less obvious than last week. But the New Age movement, if you've ever heard of the Christ Consciousness movement. So the Christ Consciousness movement is rooted in New Age thinking and it teaches that Jesus was not God, but he was a human who had tapped into a divine consciousness. Jesus wasn't a God to be followed. He was an example to repeat. So Christ Consciousness teaches that we too can somehow mentally ascend to become divine gods ourselves. Or the spiritual not religious approach, right? Anybody ever heard the I'm spiritual but not religious? They want to accept Jesus's spiritual teachings. Jesus was a good spiritual teacher. But I don't really really talk about the fact that he was actually a physical human being who lived. And those are all just downplaying or in some of them absolutely throwing out Jesus's humanity altogether. So how do we respond to this ancient teaching that now has modern renditions? Here it is. Number one, we must establish Jesus was God incarnate. Jesus was God incarnate. Incarnate means Latin for literally in meat. Just like I put this jacket on and I am in jacket toe, right? Jesus has a divine nature and he puts on a human nature. That is what incarnate means. That's how we could say Jesus was both fully God and fully man. He didn't stop being fully God but he placed on himself human nature. So number one, Jesus was God incarnate. Number two, we need to understand that if Jesus did not have a physical body, then that means there was no resurrection. There is no salvation and Christianity is entirely false. So that is how we have to combat dosatism if you come across it or you come across something that's like it. Number one, Jesus was God incarnate. Number two, if Jesus did not have a physical body, there is no resurrection, there is no salvation and we are all just wrong. So first I want to establish for you how can you show Jesus is God incarnate? So the incarnation means the Christian belief that Jesus is the eternal second member of the Trinity who through the work of the Holy Spirit put on flesh and became a human being in order to die for the sin of humanity and defeat death through his resurrection. So let's look at a couple of passages that clearly show that Jesus is God incarnate. First, the birth narratives from the Gospels show that he was born a human baby. Let's look at Matthew chapter 18 verses, excuse me, Matthew chapter 1, I apologize, Matthew chapter 1 verse 18 to 23. This is how the birth of Jesus the Messiah came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph but before they came together she was found to be pregnant through the Holy Spirit because Joseph her husband was faithful to the law and yet did not want to expose her to public disgrace. He had in mind to divorce her quietly but after he had considered this an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said Joseph son of David do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son and you are to name him Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet the verse receive and give birth to a son and they will call him Immanuel which means God with us. Now obviously this is the opening of Matthew's Gospel and two things that need to be super clear. Mary did not get pregnant in the normal human way. In fact Matthew is very clear about that. Before they came together, before Joseph and Mary had the opportunity to make a child in the standard human fashion, while Mary was still a virgin, she was then impregnated by the power of the Holy Spirit. This is one of the ministries of the Holy Spirit in the life of Jesus is in the incarnation. It is the power of the Holy Spirit that places the second member of the Trinity inside Mary's body as a zygote that then grew into a baby and then was born a human being. Let's take a look at Luke chapter 1 29 to 35. Again this is Luke's take on the birth of Jesus. Luke chapter 1 starting in 29. Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be but the angel said to her, do not be afraid Mary you have found favor with God and you will conceive and give birth to a son and you are to call him Jesus. He will be great and will be called Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David and he will reign over Jacob's descendants forever. His kingdom will never end. How will this be? Mary asked the angel since I am a virgin and the angel answered. The Holy Spirit will come on you and the power of the Most High will overshadow you so the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. Now keep in mind Matthew was one of the original 12 right? So Matthew walked and talked with Jesus. Luke was not. Luke is the only known Gentile author of scripture and what was Luke's day job before he became a gospel writer? He was a doctor. In the beginning of Luke he said listen I have carefully investigated. I have carefully investigated to make sure you know the truth of what you have been taught and Luke drops a couple very key things here. First Luke mirrors what Matthew says. Mary is a virgin at the time of her conception. The power of God conceives the Christ child within her but Luke adds something here that I want to point out in verse 35. The very last sentence of the passage I just read. The Holy One to be born. Jesus was the holy second member of the Trinity while in utero before he ever breathed air. That's God incarnate. That is the second member of the Trinity growing inside Mary to be born a fully human being and it is God incarnate. Mary was literally the mechanism or the function that wrapped the second member of the Trinity in humanity as it grew inside her body and then he was born God incarnate as a human being. Number two the gospels show that Jesus has human experiences. Let's look at John chapter 4 verses 4 through 6. Now this he meaning Jesus. Now he had to go through Samaria. He came to a town in Samaria called Sychar near the plot of ground Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there and Jesus tired as he was from the journey sat down by the well. It was about noon and and stop right there. I didn't even give you the rest of the story. John chapter 4 is a fantastic story of Jesus speaking to the Samaritan woman at the well but we often miss something key about Jesus's humanity. If Jesus was holographic Jedi Jesus. If he didn't have a physical body how was he tired? If you go on in the story he asked the Samaritan woman for a drink. How is he thirsty if he's just hologram Obi-Wan style Jesus? The fact that the gospel writers include these details that Jesus was tired that Jesus was hungry. Let me ask you a question. Does God get tired? Let me ask you a better question. Can God get tired? No. If God got tired that would imply that he somehow runs out of energy or runs out of power. But since we know that scripture defines God is completely omnipotent. Omnipotent. Omnipotent. He is omni-level never runs out of energy never runs out of power. Is it the divine peace of Jesus that's tired in John chapter 4? No it can't be. No it can't be because Jesus's divinity as the second member of the trinity retains his omnipotence but Jesus's humanity. I mean bro we can be tired. Don't raise your hand if you're tired this morning. Don't call yourself out. If you're at home you can raise your hand it's okay. And if your spouse is sitting next to you wake up. I don't see how you can read a simple detail like John chapter 4. See that Jesus was tired that Jesus was thirsty and he asked the Samaritan woman for a drink and not think that Jesus had a physical body and not think that Jesus experienced the experiences we feel as human beings. How about Luke chapter 4 just the first two verses? Jesus full of the Holy Spirit left the Jordan was led by the Spirit into the wilderness where for 40 days he was tempted by the devil. He ate nothing during those days and at the end of them he was hungry. Jesus be needing us niggas. Do you see the problem with Luke's opener here? If you give in to a Jedi Jesus idea that he was just sort of some kind of hologram and we as mere human beings we weren't capable of sensing the difference between God's divine holographic sense and true humanity. Well if he was just a hologram how was he hungry? I would also say if he was just a hologram how did he eat? Right? How did he eat? How did he touch things? It makes way more sense. The plain reading of scripture here in John 4 and again in Luke 4 is that Jesus had a physical body who experienced physical experiences and that's why he was hungry. One more John chapter 19 verse 28. Later knowing that everything had now been finished and so scripture would be fulfilled Jesus said I am thirsty. So we've seen Jesus be tired. We've seen Jesus be hungry. We've seen Jesus be thirsty. The scriptural record clearly shows that Jesus had human body experiences that are inexplicable if he was holographic Obi-Wan Jesus. So have I fully established and shown to you from scripture why we need to understand Jesus had a physical body? Okay now that I've established that I need to show you the problem if you deny that fact. The problem if you deny that Jesus had a physical body which at this point hopefully I've showed you from multiple sources in scripture it just doesn't flow. Jesus had a physical nature. Jesus had a physical nature but here's the problem. We have this little thing in Christianity called the atonement. The atonement and here it is. The atonement is the reconciliation of humanity to God through the sacrificial death and resurrection of Jesus. If Jesus didn't have a body he could not reconcile mankind through his death and here's where the rubber really meets the road and this is why Christians should think deeply about the what we believe about the God King about the Savior the Messiah the Lord. If we deny his humanity we are pulling the rug right out from under all of Christianity because if Jesus does not have a physical body then he cannot die as an atoning sacrifice for sins and that's kind of like the key thing about Christianity. Jesus's death and resurrection is the singular foundation of Christianity. If Jesus didn't have a physical body and he's incapable of death which means he's incapable of resurrection then we are literally all missing out on Sunday brunch for nothing. So let me show you why we need to understand Jesus's physical death fits the atonement. First I'd like to take you back to the book of Leviticus chapter 1 verses 3 through 4. I want to show you where the Old Testament foundation of the atonement lies. So Leviticus chapter 1 verses 3 and 4. If the offering is a burnt offering from the herd you are to offer a mail without defect. You must present it at the entrance of the tent of meeting so that it will be acceptable to the Lord. You are to lay your hand on the head of the burnt offering and it will be accepted on your behalf to make atonement for you. So the technical theological term here is called substitutionary atonement. So let's break the two words down. What's a substitute? A substitute is when you replace one thing for another right? So a substitute atonement. What is atonement? The sacrifice that makes good for whatever was wrong. In this case we are talking about a burnt offering going to the Lord to make atonement for his people. Well I don't think that God allowed for them to bring a holographic heifer. I don't think that's the intention of the book of Leviticus. No what God was teaching them through the sacrificial process was two big things. Number one sin always has a cost and that cost is paid in blood. Sin always has a cost but as the divine judge God has the right to receive a substitutionary atonement on our behalf on his people's behalf. So do you see that even before we even before we get out of the Pentateuch right even before we get out of the first five books of the Bible we can see the concept that substitutionary atonement is rooted in Jewish theology which later brings us to the New Testament. Now I want to fast forward several books and a couple centuries into Isaiah 53 only verses four through six. Isaiah 53 has got a lot of stuff in it and I'm trying to show you little like fortune cookie style chunks here. So Isaiah 53 only verses four through six. The backstory here Isaiah is speaking of the suffering servant. It is a messianically prophetic looking forward to the Messiah text. Here is verse starting in verse four. Surely he took up our pain and bore our suffering yet we considered him punished by God, stricken by him and afflicted. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was on him and by his wounds we are healed. We all like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to our own way and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. That passage was written 400 years before Jesus was ever born. It is one of the most key clear prophetic passages from the Old Testament talking about the life of Jesus and what he would do 400 years later. Did you notice the amount of substitutionary terms there? He this for us. He this for us. He this for us. Now Isaiah is an Old Testament Jew so he's rooted in the Mosaic law. He's rooted in substitutionary atonement but now Isaiah brings it one step forward and he says no no there will be a messiah. There will be a substitution to come for us because and just to reread verse six we all have gone astray. Each one of us has turned to our own way and the Lord has laid on him meaning on Jesus the iniquity of us all. Fast forward to Mark chapter 10 verse 45. For even the Son of Man did not come to serve but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. That's the words of Jesus himself. I'm pretty sure if there is anybody who ever walked planet earth who knew what Jesus's mission was it was Jesus. Like I don't think that's too far of a stretch. The divine second member of the trinity God incarnate he knew what he was doing. Jesus did not resurrect one day and go well what had happened was and then try to explain it. Jesus knew what he was doing. He knew he came by using the word son of man. He's identifying himself with the Old Testament messianic prophecies but he now adds that extra layer. I give my life as the ransom. I give my life as the payment theologically that seals substitutionary atonement and then finally let me move forward into the New Testament era Romans chapter 3. We're only going to look at 22 to 25. Romans chapter 3 22 to 25. This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There is no difference between Jew and Gentile for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and all are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came through Christ Jesus. God presented Christ as a sacrifice of atonement through the shedding of his blood to be received by faith. That's just a I mean that was a super fast overview from Leviticus to Romans showing you that substitutionary atonement is rooted in the Old Testament. It was prophesied that Jesus would be it. Jesus said he would be it and Paul's pointing back and building rich Christian theology that Jesus is the substitutionary atonement for our sins. If Jesus didn't have a body you're still going to hell. I don't want to be overly harsh but I'm not going to lie to you either. There is no world in which Docetism is true and salvation is real. Why? Because if there was no sacrifice then each one of us still owes the sin debt to God. That's why this I know the word Docetism is very disconnected from our culture today but over spiritualizing Jesus is not. Just like with Ebionism seeing Jesus is just a good moral teacher. That's still around today. Over spiritualizing Jesus to where Jesus was just a guru of some kind. That's still very real today. Jesus has to be a flesh and blood real historical figure or to put it quite frankly we're all screwed. If I had a little button that had the R2D2 sound that would have been the moment. But if Jesus didn't die and rise again there is no atonement. You following me so far? All right so now let's get to the last thing here. The bodily resurrection of Jesus and I'm not going to harp on this too much because if you've been a catalyst for any amount of time you know I love resurrection apologetics. But I got to show you this so we're super clear Jesus didn't only die physically but he rose physically. He had a physical death and a bodily resurrection. Let's look at 1st Corinthians chapter 15 verses 3 through 8. You guys know I love this passage. Just as a precursor for those of you who have not heard me teach this passage. The passage that we are about to read is the earliest recorded Christian teaching about Jesus ever. I understand that Corinthians wasn't written until later but Paul even says here that he is passing on the early Christian teaching. Scholars date what I'm about to read you to anywhere from 18 months after the resurrection to possibly weeks after the resurrection. Just depends on whether you want to go with the believing scholars or the skeptic scholars. But even Bart Ehrman is going to give me this within 18 to 24 months of the cross. So here it is. This is the earliest known teaching about Jesus. 1st Corinthians chapter 15 I'm going to start reading in verse 3. For I, this is Paul speaking, for I receive what I passed on to you as a first importance. That Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. That he was buried and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures. That he appeared to Cephas and then to twelve and after that he appeared to more than five hundred of the brothers and sisters at the same time. Most of whom are still living though okay some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James then to all the apostles and last of all he appeared to me also as to one abnormally born. Do you see what Paul is saying? He is saying that the earliest known Christian teaching is that Jesus died as the substitutionary atonement for sin and that he rose in bodily form and that resurrection was witnessed by like five hundred and thirteen people. Right I'm counting the 500 plus God Jesus's original 12 plus Paul we'll make him number 13. 513 human beings physically witnessed the bodily resurrected Christ and that is what our faith is built on. Jesus bodily died and he also bodily rose. How about Matthew chapter 16 verse 21? From that time on Jesus began to explain to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem. He must suffer many things at the hands of the elders the chief priests the teach of the law that he must be killed and on the third day be raised to life. This is Jesus teaching his disciples bro this new international bill version. Bros I'm gonna die I'll be back way before Arnold Schwarzenegger ever said it. Acts chapter one verses one through three this is Dr. Luke I mentioned this a minute ago. In my former book Theophilus I wrote about all that Jesus began to do and teach that until the day he was taken up to heaven after giving instructions through the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had chosen after his suffering meaning his death on the cross after his suffering he presented himself to them and gave many convincing proofs that he was alive. He appeared to them over a period of 40 days and spoke about the kingdom of God. Docetism attempts to overemphasize Jesus's divinity at the expense of his humanity. How do we respond? Number one Jesus was physically God incarnate and I hope that I've shown you enough collection of passages that that is a true statement. Here's the problem if you depart from the statement Jesus was God incarnate you're crossing over the guardrails and you're in the ditch. I cannot pull you back if you're not going to say Jesus was God incarnate that is an orthodox foundational teaching that is true about Christianity and here's the problem if you let go on the left you're in the ebionism ditch and if you let go on the right you're in the docetism ditch and neither one of those are right Christian teaching. We must hold in tension he was God incarnate. He wrapped his divinity in humanity and that is how he has the two natures. Number two if Jesus has a physical body then there is a bodily resurrection and an opportunity for salvation. That's what that means if Jesus had a physical body then that means his death was the substitutionary atonement that it not only was prophesied to be but that he said it would be and if Jesus died and rose as that substitutionary atonement then salvation is guaranteed. The problem is salvation is not guaranteed for everyone it's guaranteed for those who believe. A lot of people like to say well if Jesus died for the sins of humanity then why doesn't he just blanket apply it to everyone right that's that universalist question. If you really believe that Jesus forgives all sin then why doesn't he just take everybody heaven because the problem is solving the Eden problem choosing desire over design right when we people want to do it our way and God's saying I want you to trust me again I want you to choose me over you and so God in his infinite wisdom allowed salvation to be a choice. He made the substitutionary payment to save every single human who has ever lived. I do not live in the it's all I'm just going to let's go here for a minute because those of you like your deeper theology there is a school of theology within Christianity that says that Jesus's death on the cross did not forgive all sin it only forgave sin for those selected people whom he chose that it that Jesus's death on the cross is actually incapable of forgiving the sins of the rest of humanity. I don't agree with that I believe that Jesus's death is capable of forgiving all sin of all people but it's only applicable to those who come to him and place their faith in him there is no limit like Jesus does not have a credit limit on being able to pay for sins okay Jesus's card is good for it I promise but you have to trust him and therein lies that faith and redemption and repentance component Jesus is capable of forgiving all sin but he has told us the way to be forgiven is to place our faith and trust in him to repent of our sins and trust him as savior if Jesus did not die physically and he didn't rise physically then we are all wasting our time but if he did and I submit to you the evidence is definitely in the category that he did right don't forget Dr. Doug there's not a single shred of physical evidence that don't say to them is true you know what there is evidence to prove is true Jesus was an actual human being that's like true beyond all reasonable doubt Jesus died on a cross true beyond all reasonable doubt all of the earliest followers of Jesus claimed that he had resurrection appearances true beyond a reasonable doubt you put those three things together what does it spell out it spells out that Jesus was a real human being who was God incarnate who died and who rose and who can be trusted in for salvation that's how we get rid of dosatism today we don't give up the ground that Jesus was human and just like Ebionism we're not going to give up the ground that Jesus is God we're going to stand right in the middle and say Jesus is God incarnate he is 100 human and 100 god he is the only person on earth who has ever done that he's only person on earth who's been God incarnate he's also the only human being who's been witnessed as risen after his own death not his own faked death right not like a magician a magical whoa watch me i'm over here right Jesus physically died his death was witnessed his his body was buried and prepared for burial and three days later he was seen and for 40 days after his resurrection he was witnessed by 513 different individuals and what i love about the paul passage in first corinthians 15 is he specifically says don't believe me go check go check with the witnesses go ask all those other people they saw him too if you think i'm crazy erin go check for yourself man fact check me in today's society paul would probably say just google it right just google it megan you'll see you'll see i'm not lying we cannot give up the ground that Jesus was fully God and fully man because the theological consequences are too great our children must be taught that Jesus is God incarnate