Ebionism
Wednesday, April 23, 2025 10:14 AM
Key Thought:
Over the centuries, the church has overcome many false teachings. Learning about
them protects our future theological health.
For the next three weeks we are going to delve into the world of theology, specifically
the dividing line between heresy and orthodoxy.
Theology:
proper. "The Study of God"
street. "The explanation of the things of God"
Orthodoxy: proper. The correct beliefs of Christianity
Heresy: proper. Departing from correct beliefs
Example:
Theology is the multi-lane highway of Christian teaching. Orthodoxy is the available
lanes of travel. Heresy is outside the guardrails.
Heresy: false teaching
Heretic: a false teacher who refuses correction.
Christian Orthodoxy teaches Jesus is the God/man.
This morning's heresy is Ebionism and it teaches that Jesus was not God, but a man on
whom God allowed His power to reside.
Key teachings of Ebionism:
1. Jesus is not God, He is only a human.
2. At His baptism, God allows His power to rest on Jesus because of his strict
obedience to the Mosaic law.
3. Ebionites rejected Paul as a false prophet.
4. Ebionites concentrated on the theme of good works.
Heresy Page 1

History:
Ebionism was born out of two key Jewish beliefs:
1. There is only ONE god.
2. Obedience to the Law creates righteousness.
Modern-Day Version:
Jesus was a good moral teacher whose example we should follow. Anyone get into
heaven by being a good person.
How can we respond to the heresy of Ebionism and its modern-day version?
1. Jesus is God
2. Righteousness is found only in Jesus.
1: Jesus is God.
a. Jesus considered God to be His own father.
Mark 14:35–36
35 Going a little farther, he fell to the ground and prayed that if possible the hour might
pass from him.
36 “Abba, Father,” he said, “everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me. Yet
not what I will, but what you will.”
b. Jesus forgave sins.
Mark 2:4–7
4 Since they could not get him to Jesus because of the crowd, they made an opening in
the roof above Jesus by digging through it and then lowered the mat the man was lying
on.
5 When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralyzed man, “Son, your sins are
forgiven.”
Heresy Page 2

6 Now some teachers of the law were sitting there, thinking to themselves,
7 “Why does this fellow talk like that? He’s blaspheming! Who can forgive sins but God
alone?”
c. Jesus defined God's creative actions.
Mark 2:27–28
27 Then he said to them, “The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.
28 So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.”
d. Jesus identified Himself as the Son of Man.
Mark 14:61–64
61 But Jesus remained silent and gave no answer. Again the high priest asked him, “Are
you the Messiah, the Son of the Blessed One?”
62 “I am,” said Jesus. “And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the
Mighty One and coming on the clouds of heaven.”
63 The high priest tore his clothes. “Why do we need any more witnesses?” he asked.
64 “You have heard the blasphemy. What do you think?” They all condemned him as
worthy of death.
e. The early church taught Jesus was God.
Philippians 2:5–11
5 In your relationships with one another, have the same mindset as Christ Jesus:
6 Who, being in very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be
used to his own advantage;
7 rather, he made himself nothing by taking the very nature of a servant, being made in
Heresy Page 3

7 rather, he made himself nothing by taking the very nature of a servant, being made in
human likeness.
8 And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient
to death— even death on a cross!
9 Therefore God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above
every name,
10 that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under
the earth,
11 and every tongue acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the
Father.
John 1:1–4
1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
2 He was with God in the beginning.
3 Through him all things were made; without him nothing was made that has been
made.
4 In him was life, and that life was the light of all mankind.
2: Righteousness is found only in Jesus.
Righteous: That which aligns with moral the character of God, often including
relationship, ie. Honesty, justice, etc.
1: God is the measure of righteousness.
Psalm 145:17
17 The LORD is righteous in all his ways and faithful in all he does.
Heresy Page 4

2: Human righteousness is measured by God.
Genesis 7:1
1 The LORD then said to Noah, “Go into the ark, you and your whole family, because I
have found you righteous in this generation.
Matthew 23:28
28 In the same way, on the outside you appear to people as righteous but on the inside
you are full of hypocrisy and wickedness.
3: Human righteousness is worthless and impossible.
Isaiah 64:6
6 All of us have become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous acts are like filthy
rags; we all shrivel up like a leaf, and like the wind our sins sweep us away.
Ecclesiastes 7:20
20 Indeed, there is no one on earth who is righteous, no one who does what is right and
never sins.
4: Human are made righteous through faith in Christ
Romans 3:21–24
21 But now apart from the law the righteousness of God has been made known, to
which the Law and the Prophets testify.
22 This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There is
no difference between Jew and Gentile,
23 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
24 and all are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ
Jesus.
Review:
Ebionism denies the divinity of Jesus based on two key Jewish beliefs:
1. There is only ONE god.
Heresy Page 5

1. There is only ONE god.
2. Obedience to the Law creates righteousness.
Christian Answer:
Our answer to the two key beliefs underpinning Ebionism:
1. There is only one TRIUNE God.
2. Obedience to Christ DEMONSTRATES His righteousness.
The Takeaway:
Christian orthodoxy teaches that Jesus is God and the only source of righteousness for
human beings.
Heresy Page 6

Docetism
Monday, April 28, 2025 11:34 AM
Key Thought:
Over the centuries, the church has overcome many false
teachings. Learning about them protects our future theological
health.
For the next three weeks we are going to delve into the world of
theology, specifically the dividing line between heresy and
orthodoxy.
Theology:
proper. "The Study of God"
street. "The explanation of the things of God"
Orthodoxy: proper. The correct beliefs of Christianity
Heresy: proper. Departing from correct beliefs
Example:
Theology is the multi-lane highway of Christian teaching.
Orthodoxy is the available lanes of travel. Heresy is outside the
guardrails.
Heresy: false teaching
Heretic: a false teacher who refuses correction.
Christian Orthodoxy teaches Jesus is the God/man.
This morning's heresy is Docetism and it teaches that Jesus never
Heresy Page 7

This morning's heresy is Docetism and it teaches that Jesus never
had a physical human body. He only appeared that way to us.
Jesus was never genuinely human.
"It is a philosophical argument with no evidence whatsoever" -
Doug Taylor
Key Facts of Docetism
1: Greek Dualism: physical matter is always lesser than spiritual
matter.
2: Jesus never had a physical body, he only appeared that way to
us.
3: Jesus never experienced physical things like pain, hunger, or
death.
4: Jesus did not have a bodily resurrection, because He did not
have a body.
Jesus was a ghost, phantasm, or hologram… but He was never
really a part of our physical world.
He was JEDI JESUS.
Docetism over emphasizes Jesus's divinity at the expense of His
humanity.
NOTICE:
Because of this physical/spiritual matter lens, Docetism had to re-
invent Christian teaching to fit within their pre-established view.
Heresy Page 8

invent Christian teaching to fit within their pre-established view.
Modern Versions:
New Age movement, Christ Consciousness, Spiritual-not-religious
approach to Jesus as a 'spiritual teacher' but downplaying or
jettisoning His physical existence.
How do we respond to modern versions of Docetism?
1: Jesus was God incarnate.
2: If Jesus did not have a physical body, there was no resurrection
and there is no salvation. (Christianity is false.)
1: Jesus is God incarnate.
The incarnation is the Christian belief that Jesus is the eternal
second member of the Trinity who, through the work of the Holy
Spirit, "put on flesh" and became a human being in order to die
for the sin of humanity and defeat death through His
resurrection.
a. Jesus's birth narratives show he was born a human baby.
Matthew 1:18–23
18 This is how the birth of Jesus the Messiah came about: His
mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before
they came together, she was found to be pregnant through the
Holy Spirit.
19 Because Joseph her husband was faithful to the law, and yet
Heresy Page 9

19 Because Joseph her husband was faithful to the law, and yet
did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to
divorce her quietly.
20 But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared
to him in a dream and said, “Joseph son of David, do not be afraid
to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her
is from the Holy Spirit.
21 She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name
Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins.”
22 All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the
prophet:
23 “The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will
call him Immanuel” (which means “God with us”).
Luke 1:29–35
29 Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what
kind of greeting this might be.
30 But the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary; you have
found favor with God.
31 You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you are to call
him Jesus.
32 He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High.
The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David,
33 and he will reign over Jacob’s descendants forever; his
Heresy Page 10

33 and he will reign over Jacob’s descendants forever; his
kingdom will never end.”
34 “How will this be,” Mary asked the angel, “since I am a virgin?”
35 The angel answered, “The Holy Spirit will come on you, and the
power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the holy one to
be born will be called the Son of God.
b. The gospels show Jesus having human experiences.
John 4:4–6
4 Now he had to go through Samaria.
5 So he came to a town in Samaria called Sychar, near the plot of
ground Jacob had given to his son Joseph.
6 Jacob’s well was there, and Jesus, tired as he was from the
journey, sat down by the well. It was about noon.
Luke 4:1–2
1 Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, left the Jordan and was led by the
Spirit into the wilderness,
2 where for forty days he was tempted by the devil. He ate
nothing during those days, and at the end of them he was hungry.
John 19:28
Heresy Page 11

John 19:28
28 Later, knowing that everything had now been finished, and so
that Scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said, “I am thirsty.”
2: The Atonement
The atonement is the reconciliation of humanity to God through
the sacrificial death and resurrection of Jesus. If Jesus didn't have
a body, He couldn't reconcile mankind through death.
Leviticus 1:3–4
3 “ ‘If the offering is a burnt offering from the herd, you are to
offer a male without defect. You must present it at the entrance
to the tent of meeting so that it will be acceptable to the LORD.
4 You are to lay your hand on the head of the burnt offering, and
it will be accepted on your behalf to make atonement for you.
Isaiah 53:4–6
4 Surely he took up our pain and bore our suffering, yet we
considered him punished by God, stricken by him, and afflicted.
5 But he was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for
our iniquities; the punishment that brought us peace was on him,
and by his wounds we are healed.
6 We all, like sheep, have gone astray, each of us has turned to
our own way; and the LORD has laid on him the iniquity of us all.
Heresy Page 12

Mark 10:45
45 For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to
serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.”
Romans 3:22–25
22 This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all
who believe. There is no difference between Jew and Gentile,
23 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
24 and all are justified freely by his grace through the redemption
that came by Christ Jesus.
25 God presented Christ as a sacrifice of atonement, through the
shedding of his blood—to be received by faith.
John 3:16–17 (NIV)
16For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not
perish but have eternal life.
17For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him.
3: The Resurrection
The bodily resurrection of Jesus is the foundation of Christianity.
If Jesus didn't have a body, He didn't have a resurrection.
1 Corinthians 15:3–8
3 For what I received I passed on to you as of first importance:
Heresy Page 13

3 For what I received I passed on to you as of first importance:
that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures,
4 that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day
according to the Scriptures,
5 and that he appeared to Cephas, and then to the Twelve.
6 After that, he appeared to more than five hundred of the
brothers and sisters at the same time, most of whom are still
living, though some have fallen asleep.
7 Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles,
8 and last of all he appeared to me also, as to one abnormally
born.
Matthew 16:21
21From that time on Jesus began to explain to his disciples that
he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things at the hands of
the elders, the chief priests and the teachers of the law, and that
he must be killed and on the third day be raised to life.
Acts 1:1–3
1 In my former book, Theophilus, I wrote about all that Jesus
began to do and to teach
2 until the day he was taken up to heaven, after giving
instructions through the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had chosen.
3 After his suffering, he presented himself to them and gave many
Heresy Page 14

3 After his suffering, he presented himself to them and gave many
convincing proofs that he was alive. He appeared to them over a
period of forty days and spoke about the kingdom of God.
Docetism over emphasizes Jesus's divinity at the expense of His
humanity.
Modern Versions:
New Age movement, Christ Consciousness, Spiritual-not-religious
approach to Jesus as a 'spiritual teacher' but downplaying or
jettisoning His physical existence.
How do we respond to modern versions of Docetism?
1: Jesus was God incarnate.
2: If Jesus had a physical body which is why there was a bodily
resurrection and the opportunity for salvation.
The Takeaway:
Christian orthodoxy teaches that Jesus was God incarnate in a
physical body during His earthly ministry. This is why we can trust
in our salvation and our future resurrection.
Heresy Page 15

Gnosticism
Monday, May 5, 2025 11:03 AM
Key Thought:
Over the centuries, the church has overcome many false
teachings. Learning about them protects our future theological
health.
For the next three weeks we are going to delve into the world
of theology, specifically the dividing line between heresy and
orthodoxy.
Theology:
proper. "The Study of God"
street. "The explanation of the things of God"
Orthodoxy: proper. The correct beliefs of Christianity
Heresy: proper. Departing from correct beliefs
Example:
Theology is the multi-lane highway of Christian teaching.
Orthodoxy is the available lanes of travel. Heresy is outside the
guardrails.
Heresy: false teaching
Heretic: a false teacher who refuses correction.
This morning's heresy is Gnosticism and it is a term that
encompasses a large variety of groups and beliefs that exist
outside Christian orthodoxy.
Heresy Page 16

General Gnostic Beliefs are:
1: The ultimate Spirit Being is transcendent and unknowable.
2: Salvation is attained through secret knowledge leading to
transcendence from the physical world.
3: Humans must re-discover their own divine nature through
secret spiritual knowledge.
Ancient example:
Marcionism (OT & NT God's are different)
Modern examples:
Scientology (humans transcend and become gods)
Mormonism (same)
New Age Spiritualism
How do we respond to modern versions of Gnosticism?
1: God reveals Himself in nature and Scripture.
2: Humans are image-bearers, not divine creatures.
3: Salvation is found in Christ alone.
Gnostic claim: God is unknowable.
1: God reveals Himself in nature and Scripture.
Heresy Page 17

The Two Books: Nature & Scripture
General Revelation: God's self-disclosure in nature
Special Revelation: God's direct communication with His
people.
Myth: science and Christian theology are at war
Reality: they align a lot more than we think
Evidence: the origin of the universe.
Where did the universe come from?
There are only 3 possible answers:
1. The universe is eternal.
2. The universe caused itself to exist.
3. Something outside the universe caused it to come into
existence.
God reveals Himself in Nature
Genesis 1:1
1 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.
John 1:1–3
1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God,
and the Word was God.
Heresy Page 18

and the Word was God.
2 He was with God in the beginning.
3 Through him all things were made; without him nothing was
made that has been made.
God reveals Himself in Scripture
Genesis 12:1–3
1 The LORD had said to Abram, “Go from your country, your
people and your father’s household to the land I will show you.
2 “I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you; I will
make your name great, and you will be a blessing.
3 I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you I will
curse; and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you.”
Acts 9:1–5
1 Meanwhile, Saul was still breathing out murderous threats
against the Lord’s disciples. He went to the high priest
2 and asked him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus, so
that if he found any there who belonged to the Way, whether
men or women, he might take them as prisoners to Jerusalem.
3 As he neared Damascus on his journey, suddenly a light from
heaven flashed around him.
4 He fell to the ground and heard a voice say to him, “Saul, Saul,
Heresy Page 19

4 He fell to the ground and heard a voice say to him, “Saul, Saul,
why do you persecute me?”
5 “Who are you, Lord?” Saul asked. “I am Jesus, whom you are
persecuting,” he replied.
Lots of religions claim their "god "wrote Scripture. What makes
the Bible different?
Unity within Diversity:
40+ authors, 1500 years, 3 languages, 3 continents tell ONE
STORY
Undeniably Historical:
While not a historical book, a litany of historical details have
been confirmed historically and archeologically from the pages
of the Bible.
Fulfilled Prophecy:
The Bible contains a myriad of prophecies that are recorded as
having been fulfilled.
Gnostic claim: God is unknowable.
1: God reveals Himself in nature and Scripture.
Gnostic claim: Human are divine creatures.
2: Humans are image-bearers, not divine creatures.
John 1:1–3
Heresy Page 20

John 1:1–3
1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God,
and the Word was God.
2 He was with God in the beginning.
3 Through him all things were made; without him nothing was
made that has been made.
That has been made - there is a clear distinction between
the Creator and the creation. That which is created is not
the same thing as the Creator.
Genesis 1:26–27
26 Then God said, “Let us make mankind in our image, in our
likeness, so that they may rule over the fish in the sea and the
birds in the sky, over the livestock and all the wild animals, and
over all the creatures that move along the ground.”
27 So God created mankind in his own image, in the image of
God he created them; male and female he created them.
Image of God - only human beings were created to
represent God in creation. Humans alone were created to
reflect and relate to God.
What is the image of God?
1: The relational capacity to love others and God
2: The rational capacity for thought and morality
3: The regency authority to direct creation to God
Heresy Page 21

3: The regency authority to direct creation to God
Genesis 9:6
6 “Whoever sheds human blood, by humans shall their blood be
shed; for in the image of God has God made mankind.
Sheds human blood - this is AFTER THE FLOOD and the
reasoning provided for the prohibition of murder is that
humans still retain the image of God.
Gnostic claim: Human are divine creatures.
2: Humans are image-bearers, not divine creatures.
3: Salvation is found in Christ alone.
1 Timothy 2:5–6 (AD 62-66)
5 For there is one God and one mediator between God and
mankind, the man Christ Jesus,
6 who gave himself as a ransom for all people. This has now
been witnessed to at the proper time.
Acts 4:12 (50 days after resurrection)
12 Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name
under heaven given to mankind by which we must be saved.”
John 14:6 (Jesus Himself)
Heresy Page 22

John 14:6 (Jesus Himself)
6 Jesus answered, “I am the way and the truth and the life. No
one comes to the Father except through me.
The uniform message of Christianity since the resurrection on
Sunday April 9th AD30 has been that because of the death and
resurrection of Jesus, He is God and the only source of
salvation!
General Gnostic Beliefs are:
1: The ultimate Spirit Being is transcendent and unknowable.
2: Salvation is attained through secret knowledge leading to
transcendence from the physical world.
3: Humans must re-discover their own divine nature through
secret spiritual knowledge.
How do we respond to modern versions of Gnosticism?
1: God reveals Himself in nature and Scripture.
2: Humans are image-bearers, not divine creatures.
3: Salvation is found in Christ alone.
The Takeaway:
Christian orthodoxy teaches that God has revealed Himself in
Heresy Page 23

Christian orthodoxy teaches that God has revealed Himself in
nature, Scripture, and in the person of Jesus Christ as the only
source of salvation.
Heresy Page 24