This morning we are going to conclude our study of historical heresies in the Christian Church. So it's only been three weeks and I don't want to wear everybody's brain out. But it's super important that we understand that false teaching is not new to the Christian Church. In fact, we have overcome many things. So here for the last week, let me give you the key thought that keeps this series of teachings together. Over the centuries, the Church has overcome many false teachings. Learning about them protects our future theological health. Learning about historical heresies protects our future theological health. My wife said the quote this morning when we were wrapping up with the worship team. Those who do not study history are doomed to repeat it. I want you to know about your history. I want you to know about the amazing history of the Christian tribe that's been around for almost 2,000 years and what we have overcome in the realm of theology. So a couple of quick definitions. Theology proper means the study of God. But the blue jeans, ball cap explanation theology is explaining the things of God. When you're walking down the street, you're at Walmart, you're at ShopRite. We're not going to be using the official academic definition. The explanation of the things of God. And my example of what is orthodoxy, that means right Christian teaching, and what is heresy, that means wrong Christian teaching, is like a highway. If you're on a multi-lane highway, you as the driver are free to choose between the right lane, the center right lane, the center left lane, the left lane, the HOV lane, the other lane that's over here. And then they put K-rails and they knock these two rails off. So everybody's down, you know, there's all these different lanes you can choose. And as long as you're on the highway, you're free to choose between those lanes. All of the lanes are orthodoxy. Within the Christian church, we can and should disagree and debate good things. That's fine. Unity does not mean uniformity. We're not here to make every single person agree on every single point. But just because we have the freedom to disagree doesn't mean there's not actually guardrails at the end of the right and the left. There are, in fact, shoulders. There is, in fact, ditches. There is grass outside the lanes of the highway. So orthodoxy exists within the lanes. Heresy is everything that is outside the guardrails on the left or on the right. This morning, we are going to specifically look at heresy called Gnosticism. A couple things you want to know. First, Gnosticism does not start with an N. It starts with a G. It's Gnosticism. Just like chocolate ganache. I don't know. Got to relate it to food. That's how I remember things. Gnosticism and unlike the last two. So we looked at Ebionism in the first week and then we looked at Docetism last week. Gnosticism is not just a single group of people. Gnosticism is a term that encompasses a rather large collection of groups and belief systems throughout the first couple hundred years of the Christian Church. But there are a few beliefs that are somewhat general to all Gnostics. And so that's what I'm going to try to give you is here's general Gnostic beliefs. And this is going to encompass the majority of groups that are looked at as Gnostics. Number one, the ultimate spirit being. Notice I did not use the word God. I'll explain why as we get into this. But it is a general Gnostic belief that the ultimate spirit being is fully transcendent and unknowable. So what that means is in a Gnostic perspective, the ultimate spirit being that is the cause of all existence, what you and I call God, they call ultimate spirit being. He is completely actually it's not even a he, it's just an it. It is so transcendent, meaning separated from creation, that the ultimate spirit being is absolutely unknowable in any regard. The second general belief of Gnosticism is that salvation is attained through secret knowledge. And that's the two biggest words I want you to know about Gnosticism is secret knowledge. Gnosticism gets its name from the Greek word gnosis, meaning knowledge or to know. And so for a Gnostic, God is the ultimate spirit being is completely transcendent and unknowable. And the only way to salvation is through secret knowledge that leans to us transcending the physical world. So Gnostics believe there was a difference between the spirit world above and the physical world below. And the only way that you could take the elevator from the physical world to the spiritual world where the big ultimate spirit being lives is through their secret knowledge. This sounds like a great way to start like a new Amway subscription. If I know that the only way for you to transition from me to the ultimate spirit being is if you have to follow the secret knowledge that only I have. That's what Gnostics are. And then the third general belief of Gnosticism is that human beings must rediscover their own divine nature through the secret knowledge they have. OK, so number one, ultimate spirit being is completely transcendent and unknowable. Number two, salvation happens through secret knowledge that allows you to transcend up to that spiritual world out of the physical world. And number three, all humans are basically gods, but we have to transcend this physical world in order to become God and another spirit being. So that's why I saved this one for last, because these people are a little weird. And to try to explain all the Gnostic groups is very difficult. So I'm just going to stick with these three things. Spirit beings transcendent and unknowable, secret knowledge to transcend the physical world, and all human beings are basically little undiscovered gods. If you want some ancient examples, those of you who like your notes, there was a group called the Marcionites who practiced, I guess, Marcionism. You can look up Marcionism. One of the key factors in Marcionism is that the Old Testament angry god and the New Testament loving god were two totally different gods. Christians got it wrong. They're not actually the same god. They're two totally different gods. Modern examples that would believe things similar to Gnosticism, although we don't use the word, probably the biggest one, Scientology. So if you've ever watched any documentary on Scientology, they start out with the fact that they know something that everyone else doesn't know. And it's because of their secret knowledge and their measurement of like, Phaetons, isn't that the right word? Their measurement of Phaetons and like, they have like fun little machines or whatever. They, you can transcend and become a god, just like L. Ron Hubbard, the science fiction writer who created Scientology. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Your entire religion was written by a science fiction writer? And that doesn't make you at least stop and question the veracity of the key text. Okay, but Scientology is probably the best example where humans transcend to become gods. Another one that is similar but less related is Mormonism. So Mormons also have an additional book outside of scripture called the Book of Mormon, and Mormons absolutely believe that humans become gods. You can become a god and be the god of your own celestial planet. That is where the Mormon faith ends. So in that sense, they are very similar. And the third one would be like New Age Spiritualism, where everybody is basically divine and we have to tap into our divinity. So even though we don't use the word Gnosticism today, the beliefs, the undertone of Gnosticism still exists. And for that reason, we need to know how to deal with it. We can look back in our past and we can see how did we deal with Gnosticism in the first and second century. So how do we as Christians respond to modern versions of Gnosticism? I would say we respond with three key ideas. Number one, to combat the idea that Gnostics claim God is unknowable, we need to show God reveals himself in nature and in scripture. This directly challenges the Gnostic claim that God is completely unknowable. We'll go, no, he's totally knowable. He has revealed himself in two different ways, in nature and in scripture. And we'll get to that. Number two, human beings are image bearers of God. We are not mini gods. That's a very clear Christian distinction. In a Christian worldview, human beings are image bearers of the creator, but we're not divine creatures in and of our own right. And then number three, to challenge the idea that salvation is found in their secret knowledge, we must defend the ground. Salvation is found in Christ alone. So this morning, I'm going to work on those three basic ideas. Number one, God reveals himself in nature and in scripture. That cancels out the unknowable. Number two, human beings are image bearers, not divine creatures. That cancels out the idea that we're all mini gods. And three, salvation is found in Christ alone. That cancels the idea that you need anything special to be able to go to heaven. Everybody with me so far? All right. So, let's work on the first thing. The Gnostic claim is God is unknowable. The Christian answer to this claim is God reveals himself in nature and scripture. So this is often referred to, especially in theological and apologetic circles, this is referred to as the two books of God. The two books of God. One is called the book of nature and the other is the book of scripture. If you want the technical theological terms for it, you could say general revelation. God reveals himself through the way the planet is made, through the earth, things like that, through the solar system. And then special revelation. God reveals himself in scripture. So those are the Christian theological terms. Nature is general and scripture is special. And this is important for us as Christians because there's this myth, there's this like spear that gets thrown at us all the time that says that science and Christian theology are enemies. They're at odds with one another. And this could not be farther from the truth. But it's a lie that just keeps getting repeated. And so then people pick up on the fact that it's repeated and they don't stop to question whether it's true. So let me illustrate why understanding the book of nature and the book of scripture go together is so important. Because this myth that science and Christian theology are at war is simply not true. And I'll just provide one piece of evidence. If you need more, let me know at the end of the service on your connect card. You know, we'll go get a coffee or we'll have a virtual appointment. I'll give you all the evidence you want. But here's just one simple idea. Where did the universe come from? Like literally, why is there something instead of nothing is one of the most classic philosophical questions of all time. There's a lot of different ways to answer this question as a Christian. I'm going to give you my preferred answer because I think it's again, it's like a blue jeans sidewalk level answer. So here it is. There are only three possible answers for where the universe came from. Number one, the universe is eternal and it's always been here. That's the ancient Greeks. They just thought that the planet and the stars and the ocean and the fish and everything is just literally always been here. So if something's eternal, then you don't have to explain its beginning. Okay, that's one. Number two, the universe caused itself to exist. Right? So the universe is not eternal, but it made itself. So therefore it is the cause of its own existence. So we don't have to explain it. Or number three, something outside the universe caused it to come into existence. These three options are mutually exclusive, meaning if one is true, the others are automatically false. They're also exhaustive. There are no choices outside of these three. You have to pick one of the three answers either a, the universe is eternal, in which case it doesn't need an explanation. B, the universe caused itself to exist. So it is its own explanation. Or C, something outside the universe caused it to exist. Those are the only three logical choices you get. So let's just compare them. Which one makes the most sense with the reality that we live in? Number one, the universe is eternal. We now understand that that is false. I can understand how in first century Greek the philosophers were easy to think that everything was eternal. But now with, I mean, even before the James Webb telescope, the Hubble was able to see so far. And there's plenty of cosmological evidence that there was in fact this event. It's generally called the Big Bang. Funny that term was actually created as an insult to the beginning of the universe. But now we use it like it's a normal thing. So we know the universe is an eternal. Number two, the universe caused itself to exist. That is about as logical as saying that you're your own grandpa. I mean, that's what it means, right? For some reason, the universe existed before it existed to make itself exist. That's like saying you're your own grandpa. That is logically impossible. So if it is scientifically invalid that the universe is eternal and it's logically impossible that the universe caused itself to exist, then number three, something outside the universe caused it to come into existence. Interesting. That's exactly what the Bible says. So have I proved that the God of the Bible is in fact the universe causing item? No, this argument is not designed to prove that. But what I have proved is this idea that science and scripture are opposed to one another. That what we learn from nature and what we observe in scripture are absolute opposites is just simply not true. The universe requires a cause in order to exist. And if we wanted to go really deep into it, what would a universe making cause look like? Well, it has to be something outside of all 4D space time. So all space, time, matter, and energy, they all come into being at the same time. So whatever the cause is, is outside of space, outside of matter, outside of time, and has enough energy to create the entire known universe. That kind of sounds a lot like in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Have I proved it? No, but I have proved it's completely plausible. And I have proved that you require some sort of outside cause. So right there, that was just observing the way our world works. That was observing the universe. Now what does scripture say? Take a look at Genesis chapter one, verse one. I just quoted it. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. It's the very first opening line of the Bible. The Bible begins where science figured it out like 40, 50 years ago. The Bible started there. Thousands of years ago, way before Jesus, thousands of years ago when Moses penned that writing. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. They knew then the universe required a cause. We just figured it out from the observation of nature later. Also, the New Testament echoes this same theme. John chapter one, verses one through three. In the beginning was the word, and somebody's got that Instagram reel of that killer Indiana choir in their head right now. In the beginning, excuse me, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing has been made. New Testament, Old Testament, scientific observation, all in agreement. There has to be a cause, and scripture clearly defines that cause as the God of creation. So we can deal directly with this idea that God is unknowable. You know, a Gnostic would say they're so spiritual, God is so divine, he can't be in our physical universe. I'm like, says who? Like, what's interesting is how do you know that? How do you know God is so divine that he can't be in this universe? Then how do you know anything about that divine God? Did he tell you? Because I'm pretty sure that means he stepped in the universe to tell you. Do you see how like as soon as you start poking around a little bit, start asking some clarifying questions, all of a sudden this idea that God doesn't reveal himself or that God's so spiritual that he's unknowable. It sounds so cool when you say it, but it falls apart like sand as soon as you start to question it. So God has clearly revealed himself in nature. But what about revealing himself in scripture? How about Genesis, chapter 12, verses 1 through 3? Go from your country, your people, your father's household to the land I will show you. I will make you into a great nation. I will bless you. I will make your name great and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you and whoever curses you, I will curse and all the people on earth will be blessed through you. This is God revealing himself supernaturally to a dude named Abram who eventually becomes Abraham, you know, one of the first patriarchs, the father of the Jewish nation. Now how exactly does God reveal himself to Abram? The text is the best I've got for you. So here's what I can tell you. In verse 1 there it said, the Lord said. That implies that God spoke to Abram. God implies that God spoke to him. So not only does God reveal himself through his creation, but now he spoke specifically to one guy. And in the moments preceding this passage, Abram was just a dude walking about his day. He was just either going to work or going to the market or checking on his sheep. I don't know what he was doing, but he was just doing his own thing. And then God interjects and speaks directly to Abram. This falsifies the Gnostic claim if it's true, because the Gnostics say not only is God transcendent, but he's unknowable. God does not speak to people ever. If the word of God is true, then the Gnostic claim can also not be true at the same time. If God is unknowable, then he hasn't revealed himself in the plain reading of scripture. But maybe, just maybe you need another example. Take a look at Acts chapter 9. Here's another guy, this one from the New Testament, also going about his day, minding his own bitness, and Jesus shows up. Acts chapter 9 verse 1. Meanwhile, Saul was breathing out murderous threats against the Lord's disciples. He went to the high priest and asked him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus. So if he found any there who belonged to the way, that was the early name of Christianity, whether men or women, he might take them as prisoners to Jerusalem. As he neared Damascus on his Jordan, suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. He fell to the ground and heard a voice say to him, Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? That's so cool, I can do that with this mic. See, I can't move it closer than the other mic. Saul, why do you persecute me? He said, who are you, Lord? I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. Saul's just going about his day. He's literally trying to persecute Christians, and Jesus shows up. Saul, stop. That's God revealing himself. That's God interjecting himself into the life of a human being and saying, stop, I want to tell you about me. And Saul grew up as a Jew, so he knew that God existed. In fact, he was so passionate about his faith that he wanted to go and put Christians in jail because he thought they were maligning the Jewish faith. And Jesus had to show up and be like, it's time, let's do this. So again, this challenges the Gnostic claim that God is transcendent and unknowable. I got two different passages, one Old Testament and one New Testament, that God absolutely can interject and reveal himself, especially he spoke to both Abram and to Saul. He spoke to them. So whether you want to see the astronomical evidence from astronomy that the universe requires a cause, or you want to see the scriptural evidence in two different places, and I mean, we could use others, right? There's other passages where God spoke to people. I could have chosen Moses at the burning bush. I could have chosen Elijah on Mount Carmel. I specifically wanted an instance from the Old Testament and the New Testament to show you that I'm not making this up. God still speaks to people. And if he does speak to people, then the Gnostic claim that God is unknowable and doesn't reveal himself is completely false. But perhaps you're going to ask, well, okay, but there's a lot of religions that claim they're God, wrote pieces of scripture, right? This is how the Gnostic, if I was having a debate with the Gnostic right now, they would fire back and be like, well, fine. But you know, you're basing all of your arguments on your Bible, and I don't accept your Bible, right? There's lots of religions that claim that they're God, wrote scripture. So what makes the Bible different? Well, thank you, Mr. Gnostic. That's the next thing I'd like to say. Here's why the Bible is different from every other book on the planet. I'm just going to give you a couple of basic ones. Number one, unity within diversity. 40 plus authors over 1500 years, three different languages, three different continents that all tell one story. And I know those of you who come to Catalyst Out, you've heard me say that. Just think about it. 40 plus human authors, because there are some books in the Bible that were not clear which human being wrote it. So we got to say 40 plus. 40 plus human authors wrote their letters over 1500 years in three different original languages composed on three different continents. And the 66 books of scripture tell one story from beginning to end. That is absolutely a work of God. How do you know it wasn't a conspiracy? Watergate. That's how I know. Those of you who are old enough to remember what Watergate was or young enough that it was in your history book, which makes me sad. They couldn't keep a secret for like two weeks. And you want to tell me that the that we figured out for 1500 years with people who live in different continents and spoke different languages, that it's the largest conspiracy theory ever. Or it's just simply a work of God. And if the universe requires a cause, then I'm justified in believing that God exists. And if he revealed himself, then I'm justified in believing he can speak. So unity within diversity. Second, there is undeniable historical reality. While the Bible is not a true history book, it's not only a history book. There is a litany of historical details that have been confirmed historically and archaeology from the pages of the Bible. Of that which can be confirmed, the Bible has never been wrong. Let me say that. Of the archaeological things that have been discovered. Right? So there was a long time where they thought King David, like David and Goliath David, they thought that he was a mythical creature. They thought that he was a mythical character. Because there was no physical evidence from archaeology that David existed. Well, I have a problem with that, right? Because there's no archaeological evidence that my grandpa existed. But that doesn't mean that I didn't know him. That doesn't mean that he's not real. So the idea that just because you can't do the idea that the Bible has to be proven outside the Bible to be true is a premise that I don't agree with. But for a long time they used to say that David wasn't real because they found no evidence that this character, this king from Old Testament Israel existed. Until they did. And they found an inscription on one of those standing stone towers. And it said, in the year whatever, whatever, we made a peace treaty with the house of David from Judea. And now all of a sudden there's archaeological evidence and then everybody backs off at David. Similarly, they used to say that the New Testament Gospel of John, the fourth book of the New Testament, John described a certain area within the temple complex known as Solomon's Porch. And he said that there were a certain number of these covered porticos. And they never found them. So they're like, see, John's totally lying. We haven't found any evidence that that's real. So it automatically must be false, which nobody would accept that argument. Until they uncovered the lair and they dug a little, and guess what? Guess exactly how many porches were there? Exactly the number that John said. Why? Because John was physically there. If you wrote a book today and you complained about the traffic in Newport, just because somebody can't see that traffic tomorrow doesn't mean it wasn't real today. So archaeologically, the Bible makes tons of historical claims. People, places, things, items, timelines. And archaeologically, the Bible has never been wrong. So number three, fulfilled prophecy. The Bible absolutely makes claims of events. And then those events come true. And so here's the problem. For people who are non-believers, right? They do not believe there's a God who exists. Prophecy is impossible. Like absolutely impossible. It's a guess if it ever happens. And so what scholars will do, especially scholars who don't believe in God, is they will change the date the book was written. So for instance, Jesus absolutely prophetically predicted the destruction of the temple, which didn't occur until AD 70. Jesus died in AD 30. 40 years later, the temple is destroyed. So the way they'll try to explain it away is they'll say, Lisa, no, see, Jesus wasn't, he never really said that. They wrote it into the gospels after the temple was destroyed. Here's the problem with that, especially with Paul, which is why Paul is such a wonderful author to get to know. Paul died in AD 64. That means Paul died six years before the temple was destroyed. So anything you find written in Paul can't be backdated until after the destruction of the temple because, homie, Paul died six years before that. And Paul is one of the few authors in the New Testament that even the non-believing scholars, there are like six or seven letters of Paul that are absolutely considered historically authentic to the writer, to the time period. They're beyond question. Dr. Doug, who's probably watching online, in his book, Jesus Before Constantine, he references these seven books. There are seven of Paul's letters from the New Testament that are without question. If I've got absolute unity within diversity, no other book that has ever existed on planet Earth was written by more than 40 humans over 1,500 years, three languages, three continents, that has the unity the Bible has. No other book has the number of historical ancient references that have been proved true, and no other book fulfills prophecy. That's why I use the Bible, because it's reliable, because it's true. And if there is a God who created the universe, then you can't tell me that God can't speak because you would have to know that he can't speak. And how are you going to know he can't speak unless he tells you? Okay, so I think I have established that the Gnostic claim God is unknowable is not true because God reveals himself both in nature and in Scripture. Fair? Either that or I wore everybody's brain sponge out and we got to keep going anyway. So, number two, the second Gnostic claim is that humans are mini-gods. Humans are divine creatures. What do we answer here? The Christian answer is human beings are image bearers. We are not divine creatures. According to Scripture, human beings are image bearers. So, you can see how they might get a little confused, right? The coin, anybody got a quarter? You don't have to dig it out, but anybody ever seen a quarter? Right? When quarters are struck, they're struck with an image. Which U.S. president was the first person to be minted on the quarter? George Washington. And then you can take that quarter and you can, you know, do whatever you want with it, scratch it up. The image on the coin is scratched. But is it still George Washington? Did it all of a sudden change to like Abraham Lincoln or Taft? No, the image on the coin has not changed, no matter if it's scarred. That's the way the Bible describes human beings as image bearers of God. So, let's take a look. I want to go back to John chapter 1 for just a minute. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God, He was with God in the beginning. Verse 3, through Him all things were made, without Him nothing was made that has been made. Do you see the clear distinction in that verse between the Creator and the creation? You see the difference? Through Him, meaning through God as the Creator, all things have been made, creation. But just in the same way that you can't be your own grandpappy, you can't be the cause of your own creation. God is the Creator and the universe we live in is His creation. So there's a distinction here. Now take me to Genesis chapter 1, 26 to 27. Here's the creation of human beings in the scriptural record. Then God said, let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness, so they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the livestock and all the wild animals, and over the creatures that move along the ground. 27. So God created mankind in His own image. In the image of God He created them. Male and female He created them. So do you notice, give me that verse one more time, Mr. Eric, please. Just look at it for a second. So God created, here's the Creator making the creation. Mankind in His own image, we'll talk about that in a minute, and then in the image of God He created them. Male and female He created them. Thank you, Mr. Eric. So do you see three times in that one verse, we not only have the distinction between the Creator and the creation, but we have the purpose and the intention for why human beings were made. Human beings were made to represent or to resemble or to be the regent for God in creation. Humans alone in a biblical worldview were created to reflect and relate to God. And this is different. Again, if you had an atheistic worldview where humans are just the product of millions of years of biological evolution and random chance, which is scientifically impossible, ask me about that later. In a Christian worldview, human beings are created specifically to reflect and relate to God. So what is the image of God? There are three main things that have been argued that are the image of God. I'm going to give you all three. I'm going to give you permission to pick. And then when I'm presenting all three, I'm going to tell you which one I think is, or what I think is accurate. So when people ask, what is the image of God? Why are human beings made in the image of God? You got three choices. First is human beings are made with the relational capacity to love others and to love God. We have a relational capacity as human beings that exceeds the relational capacity of the rest of the animal kingdom to not only relate to one another, but to relate directly to God. So we have a relational capacity. Second, people have argued the image of God is the rational capacity for thought and morality. That humans alone possess a rational and moral ability and capacity that exceeds the rest of the animal kingdom. And three, humans alone have a regency authority to direct creation according to God's word. So our relational capacity, our rational capacity, and our regent authority. Those are the three things that people have argued make up the image of God. I'm going to go ahead and tell you, I don't see why these three things are mutually exclusive. I don't see why, Jen, I can't say we're totally made to relate to God. And in our relating to God, he's given us the ability to be thoughtful and moral. And the reason we relate to him with thought and morality is so we can reflect him in creation. I don't see why the three things have to be mutually exclusive. I think they can go together. And they give you this beautiful portrait. You and I are like the coins that have been struck on the mint of God. And you have been given a rational mind where logic and thought and morality all take place. And you've been given a relational capacity where we can love one another. And we can love and be in relationship with God. And we were given all of that because the original purpose, Mr. Eric, can you take me back to 27 one more time? Excuse me. 26. Let us make mankind in our image and in our likeness. Look at this. So that they may, yeah, there it is. In our likeness so that they may rule over fish of the sea, birds of the eye and all the livestock and wild animals. Human beings were created with a rational and relational capacity because only human beings were created to represent God in creation. That's what makes us unique. That's what makes us different. That does not make us mini gods. We can have a relational capacity. We can have moral understanding and moral authority. We can even represent the creator. But that doesn't make us demigods. That doesn't make us our own divinity where we're each going to be the god of our own little planet, which is basically Mormons in Scientology. That's the end of their story. Is everybody gets to become their own god. We can be representations of God without needing to be copies or mini gods. Take a look at that. So then somebody's going to come back at me and they're going to say, yeah, but don't you think the image of God has been so marred, has been so scratched, it has been so jacked up, that's a theological term, so jacked up. We can look at it later. I just want you to understand that it's no longer valid. Let me show you this. Genesis chapter 9 verse 6. I just need you to understand that the verse I'm about to read to you takes place after the Genesis flood. Genesis 9, 6. Whoever sheds human blood by humans shall their blood be shed for the image of God, God has made mankind. That verse in and of itself establishes the reason why the death penalty isn't murder is because God said, listen, if you're going to kill one of my image bearers, you're allowing your life to be forfeit in its place. It's a scriptural justification for capital punishment. Did you notice there that the reason for it is that human beings retain the image of God, human beings retain their original minted state, even though it's probably a little scratched and some deep gouges maybe there's a little corner, maybe like Washington's ears just totally broke off. That's fine. But you can still tell the image is on the coin. So the Gnostic claim that human beings are mini gods doesn't fit with what Christian scripture reveals about human beings are. Human beings are image bearers who hold the rational capacity for thought, who hold a moral capacity to make moral judgments. And the reason we have the relational and the rational is because we were created as regents to represent God. So, no, we are not mini gods. No, we are not destined to be the god of our own planet and universe. Why? Because we were destined to be in relationship with the actual God who created the planet and the universe. So they're just they're seeing the image of God in humanity, but they're stretching it beyond the way it was made. We were made as image bearers. We were not made as mini gods. And the third claim, the third claim that Gnostics are going to lay up is that salvation is found in whatever their secret knowledge is. Right. So if you're a Scientologist, then salvation is found through Scientology and the measuring of phantoms. And I know we watched a ton of those documentaries and those people were so whack. I had to go get cookies halfway through an episode and I forgot some of it. So I'm watching going and I'll be honest, sometimes I have to try to look at Christianity from the outside and go, Steve, do people think we're that crazy? Like, do they look at Christians and think, OK, so we worship a God who died, which number one, why would you kill your God? That sounds so stupid. And then he rose. Right. And human beings don't come back to life. So that sounds like I try to look at Christianity and I'm sorry, I still can't tin foil hat my way into Christianity is merely as crazy looking as Scientology. The mini God things got me the fact that we can make a machine and measure your divinity and fix what's impure about your own internal divinity. Like they have just taken it to a geeky level that I just can't even go to. But the claim the the Scientologists also would say Mormon also I would say all the first century, second century Gnostics is that salvation is found in whatever their brand of secret knowledge is. The problem is, is they don't all agree on what the brand of secret knowledge is. So if you had a Marcy night from the second century, they would still say the Scientologists going to hell because they don't have their knowledge. The Scientologist is going to look over at the Mormon and say, well, you all are going to hell because you don't have my knowledge. And now all of a sudden we've got a competition of whose secret knowledge is the best or is the most right. And they're all just going to claim their right to the to the ignorance of everybody else. So how do we as Christians respond to this idea that you have to have secret knowledge to be safe? We stand on the same doctrine that helped form the Protestant Reformation hundreds of years ago. Salvation is found in Christ alone. That is a foundational doctrine. You know, oftentimes on Sundays, I'll tell you there's things we can debate about, right? If you want to debate on what your view of the Book of Revelation is, that's cool. Let's sit down. Let's get a coffee. Let's debate it out. You want to debate like what are the miraculous gifts and their place in the church today? Fine. Let's debate that out. You want to debate who's qualified to be a deacon and who's not? Great. Let's let's have that debate. You know, one thing we're not going to have a debate about salvation in Christ alone. That's not a debatable issue within Christendom. That is a hard stop. K-rail. If you step over that line and say that salvation can be found in anything other than Jesus, you have stepped outside of Orthodox Christianity. It's one of the absolute foundational rules to be a Christian. So where do I find, how do I root and ground this purpose? I'm going to start in about A.D. 60 and I'm going to track all the way back to Jesus. Watch this. First Timothy chapter two verses five and six. Just so we're all clear, the apostle Paul wrote this book. He wrote this text at about A.D. 62 to 66. Remember, he died shortly thereafter that. So 60, I would say he died in 64. So he's right between 62 and 64. But let's just for sake say that I could be wrong about a couple of years. Here's First Timothy chapter two verses five and six. So this is the apostle Paul writing to his protege, right? He's writing to the Padawan that he's bringing up in the new Christian Jedi order. And he's teaching him and he's saying, listen, there is one God, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all people. This has now been witnessed to at the proper time. And he's teaching him and he's saying, listen, there is one God. OK, the Jews would have agreed to that. The Romans, the Greeks would not have. The Egyptians would not have anybody who's, you know, the Norse polytheists. They would not have. But there is one God and there is one mediator between God and mankind. And that man is Jesus Christ. This is why in a Christian context, salvation cannot be found in any other religion other than Jesus, because there is only one mediator between God and mankind. And that person is Jesus Christ. Now, maybe you want to be super skeptical and you want to say, OK, well, fine. But Pastor Bill Paul wrote that in A.D. 60. How do you know that's what the earliest Christians believed? Thank you for asking, Mr. Skeptic. Here's your answer. Acts chapter two or excuse me, Acts chapter four, verse 12. Remember, this part of the Book of Acts happened the very same year of the resurrection. So Pentecost was just about 50 days after the resurrection. Here, Acts chapter four, that's that same week. So let's even say it's 57 days after the resurrection. You're still within two months of Jesus coming back to life. Acts chapter four, verse 12. Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to mankind by which we must be saved. So Acts chapter four, this is Peter preaching. The very within months of Jesus rising from the grave, Peter is preaching openly and publicly that salvation can be found in no other name other than Jesus. And you may still be asking me, well fine, Pastor, maybe that's what they said about Jesus. But how do you know for sure that's what Jesus said about himself? Thank you. Here it is. John chapter 14, verse six. And Jesus answered, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. So whether you want to take the Apostle Paul's word or the word of God, so whether you want to take the Apostle Paul's word or Apostle Paul in the 60s, the Apostle Peter in the 30s, or Jesus himself in the 20s, the Christian message has remained consistent all throughout from the gospel period to today. There is only one name by which humans can be saved. And the reason for that is not because we are cooler than everybody else. Right? I'm here. That brings everybody's cool factor down a couple of notches. My wife is here and that makes up for it. And so she brings it up. We have remained consistent in the message that salvation can be found in only Jesus because only Jesus is the mediator between God, the creator and mankind. And we can't move from that. If you take even one step to the left or to the right and try to claim that any other source of salvation is true, which is what the Gnostics do, the Gnostics just say, no, salvation can be found, but you have to come here and we tell you the secret. Right? So the Gnostics are going to say not only can salvation be found outside of Christ, but Rob, you're going to have to come to me and I'm going to have to teach you the secret ways because Jesus didn't tell you everything. That's what the Gnostics say. Jesus didn't tell you everything. Jesus makes it pretty darn clear. I am the way, the truth and the life and no one comes to the Father except through me. That has been our foundational message from day one. And it's not a secret. The Christian message of salvation has been public since Jesus taught it in the Gospels. It was public at the very first moment the Christian Church is born in Acts. It was public in the A.D. 60s before the Apostle Paul died. It was public all the way through to Dr. Billy Graham preaching when I was a kid. And it's still public today as I stand here. Salvation is found in Christ alone for anyone who believes. So the Gnostic claim that you have to have some kind of special secret knowledge or you got to go and have your thetans measured and here hold on to these divining rods so we can see how unsaved you are and I can write you a prescription. No. The Christian message has been super clear. Human beings are saved in the name of Jesus by placing faith in him. Since Sunday, April the 9th, A.D. 30 when Jesus rose, we have based our faith that the death and resurrection of Jesus prove he is God and the only source to salvation. So the Gnostic claim that God's unknowable, that's out. He's revealed himself in nature and in scripture. The Gnostic claim that salvation needs to be found through secret knowledge, that's out. Salvation can be found in Jesus for all who believe. And the Gnostic claim that human beings are actually mini gods and we're all going to be destined to be gods of our own universe. No. We are created in the image of God to be in relationship with God which is why Jesus came, died and rose is so we can fulfill our originally made mission. So how do we respond to modern versions of Gnosticism? Number one, God reveals himself in nature and scripture. Number two, human beings are image bearers, not divine. And number three, salvation is found in anyone who believes in Jesus. That's why we have to know that. So that when you come up against somebody and they say, oh no, no, no, no, your pastor's doing everything he can and sure he's learned a lot, but the Bible doesn't tell you everything, that's Gnosticism. Well, how do you know? And so I'm sure somebody's either watching online or somebody's thinking it, right? Why is it wrong? Like isn't it morally wrong to say that your faith is the only one that's right? Well, if I'm morally wrong for saying that, so are the Jews, so are the Muslims, so are the Hindus. Like the only people who try to claim that everybody teaches all the same thing are the people who have to like jack up everybody's teachings. There's no Muslim who's going to teach that salvation is found in Christ alone. There's no Hindu who's going to teach salvation is found in Christ alone. There's no Baha'i or a Buddhist who's going to say everybody has their own salvation system. The only question is who's right. And in my opinion, the resurrection of Jesus as a historical event proves the fact that salvation is found in Christ alone. So the next time somebody comes to you with what sounds like, you know, Gnosticism with modern day clothes on it, you can be sure to understand, no, God has truthfully revealed himself. As an image bearer, I was made to be in relationship with him, and I am in relationship with him because Jesus saves.