Welcome to catalyst my name is Bill whether you are here in Portson or joining us online Thank you for being a part of the catalyst family now here at catalysts We're about one thing and that is loving people to Life change in Christ four simple words, but they have a whole lot of meaning We love people to life change implying that the more time we spend with Jesus and together as a church Something in our life should change we shouldn't be the same as yesterday But the reason for that change is because of Jesus not because of how good-looking all of us are obviously, right? If that was the case, then we would just not have enough seats in church all the time But we need to be asking ourselves what in me needs to change to be more like Jesus I think it's a valid question. So this morning we're gonna sort of pick up where we left off last week last week We asked ourselves. Why are we saved by faith? What is the point of? The term salvation by faith if you did not have an opportunity to hear that message You can go to catalyst 302 comm in the main menu you click on where it says sermons and all the sermons are there I don't want to rehash all of that, but I want to start with the idea that we are saved by faith That's what we do. That's who we are and then ask the question So today's big question is what does it mean to live a Christian? Christian lifestyle, right if Christian is the adjective those of you like grammar class This is this is how far my grammar goes Christian is the adjective and lifestyle is the noun that means Christian is the modifier of my Lifestyle, what does that mean? What does it mean to live a Christian lifestyle? Or if I were to give you the bill version of the question, it's how should I live now that I'm saved? Because can we agree that my life Pre-Jesus and my life post Jesus shouldn't be the same because if they are the same like I'm not super good at math But if bill plus Jesus equals bill without Jesus Jesus equals zero So that's the question. I'd like to ask you this morning is what does it mean to live a Christian? Lifestyle now we are primarily going to be getting our answers from the New Testament this morning So the first passage we're gonna go to is in 2nd Corinthians chapter 5 if you want to turn there That's not where we're gonna stay but that's the first place we're gonna go Before we get to 2nd Corinthians though, we didn't do the big Bible story last week and I apologize for that Let's review where we are in the story of God's creation Because this is going to have a lot to do with where we're going from our passage today So if you are new to catalyst if you've not joined us before Just follow along and shout out the answers that you know, and then you can learn along the way so in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth into this beautiful creation he planted a garden at a place named Eden into Eden he planted two human beings Adam and Eve In the garden Adam and Eve willfully disobeyed God and chose to decide for themselves What is right and what is wrong instead of obeying God and that introduces sin and death into creation Adam and Eve are then moved out of Eden They're no longer allowed to have access to the tree of life And they begin to have a family and sin begins to spread throughout creation God looks down at his creation and he regrets having made humanity and he decides to give humanity a reboot He finds the one righteous man on earth Tells him there's gonna be a flood tells him to build an ark and to grab his wives and his sons and their wives that man's name is Noah Noah then boards the ark with two of every unclean animal and seven of every clean animal and if you read the story Of Noah's ark spoiler alert go look at who closes the door Behind everybody not gonna tell you but spoiler alert go after lunch break Go look up the story of Noah and look at who closes the door on the ark then it rains for how many days? 40 days and 40 nights it rains the whole earth is covered in flood waters for over a year Then finally the flood waters recede Noah gets out of the boat creation restarts Then we make it to Genesis chapter 12 God finds a Gentile man a dude just living in a place called err of the Chaldeans and he says listen You're gonna be my people. I'm gonna be your God. I want you to move to the land that I will show you I'm a blessed those who bless you. I'm a curse those who curse you I'm gonna give this land to your descendants as an everlasting inheritance and you will be my people to reveal me to the world that man's name became Abraham then that same promise that God makes to Abraham He repeats to Abraham's second-born son who becomes the next covenant inheritor that man's name is Isaac Isaac likewise to his second-born son God repeats that promise and the next covenant inheritor becomes Jacob Jacob then has 12 sons the older ones sell one of their younger brothers into slavery The end of the book of Genesis ends with this epic tale of a brother being sold into slavery for 13 years He rises through the ranks. He goes into a house. He becomes a house manager. He gets wrongfully accused of rape He goes to prison. He then becomes a prison manager and then God sends a dream to the king of Egypt whose title is Pharaoh and Joseph is the only person who can interpret that dream and that's just the end of Genesis Then God's people move into Egypt at the end of Genesis and how many years between? Genesis and where Exodus and begins 400 years they're in slavery and then there's a Cry for a Redeemer someone to rescue God's people from Egypt and God raises up a young boy who's born in Egypt Educated in Egypt, but then flees Egypt and becomes a shepherd in a place called Midian And then he comes back to deliver God's people his name is Moses Moses moves back to town and finds his older brother named Aaron and his older sister named Miriam and then God through this miraculous power through Moses Delivers his people. There's the ten plagues. They ultimately leave Egypt and they walk on dry ground across the Red Sea and They should have gone right to the promised land. They should have gone right to the land that God intended for them But because of a disobedience problem, they wander in the wilderness for how many years? For 40 years they wander in the wilderness as the punishment for their doubt the same people who physically witnessed the ten plagues of Egypt Worship a false idol at the foot of Mount Sinai So don't ever think idolatry can't creep into your heart. You can walk across the Red Sea and still be worshiping idols two weeks later So then the entire old generation dies off God raises up a new leader for his people to lead his people into the promised land Let man's name is Joshua Joshua then leans them across the Jordan River it parts just like the Red Sea did with Moses They move into Canaan They're supposed to move out all of the residents of Canaan and they don't and then enters the judges period Where everyone does what is right in their own eyes? During the judges period everybody just did whatever they thought was right It was relativism and pluralism like it is today and then they finally reached this epitome of I want to do everything right and they reject God's kingship and they asked for a king they asked for a human king who was supposed to be the forever king of Israel God I mean whoever said Jesus I would argue you're not wrong, right? God was supposed to be the king of Israel But they asked for a human king the first human king of the United Monarchy of Israel is Saul followed by David followed by Solomon followed by Civil War after Solomon God's people fracture into two separate kingdoms the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah and then for the rest of the Old Testament after those three kings up until they go into exile There are two separate kingdoms and if you don't catch that then reading the stories gets really tricky So they have go as two separate kingdoms still with a disobedience problem. Have you noticed the theme yet? Humans are disobedient creatures. We really are and they continue to be disobedient. They continue to be disobedient So God finally says listen, I'm gonna have to put you in a timeout and He brings a pagan nation in to invade the northern kingdom of Israel at or around 586 BC No 605 BC I would get it right eventually somewhere around 600 BC The northern kingdom, right? What's the pagan nation that came in and invaded the northern kingdom? Assyria, but then Assyria falls to another pagan nation named Babylon who comes in and invades the southern kingdom of Judah and then they get carried away and then Babylon falls to Persia and then Persia finally lets the children of Israel go home for 70 years They're away in captivity as those pagan nations rule the world and they finally get to come home and then they were rebuilding and they're rebuilding Their homes they're rebuilding the temple. There's your story of Hezekiah Nehemiah Ezra We get to the end of the Old Testament the Italian prophet Malachi has a prophecy and he tells God's people I'm going to send you a Messiah an anointed one I'm going to send you a very special Messiah and you'll know it's him because I'm gonna send a friend in front of him a Forerunner who will prepare the way how many years of silence between Malachi and Matthew? For 400 years. God doesn't say anything. There's no new scriptures. There's no prophets. He's just quiet during those 400 years However, the world is getting prepared for Jesus during those 400 years Alexander the great rises to prominence and then dies his kingdom is fractured the Seleucid Empire takes over Israel for a little while and then Here comes this little start-up You may have heard of him called Rome and Rome begins to conquer the known world anybody ever heard the phrase all roads lead to Because originally they did so in that 400 years of silence It's not that God was like just twiddling his thumbs things were being prepared for the arrival of the Messiah and then God breaks His silence in the beginning of the New Testament and he sends an angel to the temple to speak to a priest Who was chosen by lot and who was on duty and the name of the angel is I? Just want to see if it's paying attention I want to see if somebody would name Zechariah as the angel now the name of the priest who's in the temple is Zechariah, that's right, and he says Zech listen. You're gonna have a son. He's gonna be very special He's gonna be a Nazarene from birth He's gonna prepare the way and Zechariah has a moment of doubt in his heart He has to be quiet for the whole time the son of promise born to Zechariah and Elizabeth's name is John the John the Baptist John the Baptist is the forerunner of the Messiah Then after God sends the angel to Zechariah He then sends an angel to a young woman pledged to be married to a man named Joseph and the Holy Spirit overshadows her and the Lord incarnates within her that young woman's name is Mary and Mary is the mother of Jesus Jesus is the Messiah Promised all those years ago. So then Jesus grows up We see him like a 12 and then we skip to age 30 He is baptized by his relative slash cousin John the Baptist. He goes into the wilderness. He's tempted by the devil He overcomes the devil's temptation thereby the new Adam succeeds where the old Adam fails. He starts his earthly ministry He gathers a group of people followers together. We now call them disciples He teaches them about the new kingdom of God the Jews are so excited that they kill him case you haven't read the Gospels spoiler alert the Messiah shows up and the Jews kill him and then for three days we're not really sure what's happening from Good Friday to first thing Easter Sunday morning and Then there is a small group of women Who go to the tomb To put spices on the body of Jesus don't miss the fact the women did not expect a resurrection They expected a crucified dead Jesus and they're on the way to the tomb And then they discover what we now call the resurrection that Jesus rose for 40 more days He stays on earth and he teaches and then he ascends to heaven. He says blah blah blah. Don't go nowhere yet Bob don't leave yet. I'm gonna send you a gift from my father and 50 days after that or 50 days total after his crucifixion the day of Pentecost happens and the Church of Jesus Christ is given a gift and that gift is The Holy Spirit so then at that point the Christian Church is born and the message of Jesus begins to go out from Jerusalem to Judea Samaria to the ends of the earth at or about 18 to 24 months after the resurrection Jesus appears on a road outside a town called Damascus And he calls a very specific Very passionate Jewish teacher to be an apostle To follow him and when he has the vision on the Damascus Road He says why are you persecuting me and he looks up at Jesus He goes, I don't even know who you are. Who are you and he says I am Jesus that man's name becomes the Apostle Paul and That's the story from the beginning of the Bible all the way to the Colossus The story from the beginning of the Bible all the way to the calling of the Apostle Paul Why did I get to Paul because we're about to read a book that was written by him That's that's why I got all the way to Paul So that's the story that you and I are still a part of I could continue going and we could go through all of church History we could finish the first century we could make it to the early church fathers We could make it through the dark ages. We could make it through the Reformation We could make it through the beginning of America and talk about the Puritans and the Anabaptists And then you could talk about the the multiple great awakenings that have happened on American soil Azusa Street LA all the way to all the denominations and all the Christians and all the gin joints and all the world that we have today But we are a continuation of the story that started back in the beginning where God created the heavens and the earth That's the point behind why we do that every week You and I are living in our chapter of God's big story of creation And in our chapter we live in the age of the church We live in the age where we already have the Holy Spirit where we have the written Word of God and it's our job to study it So now let me get to my question What does it mean to live a Christian lifestyle? The first thing I need to give you is the foundation of what a Christian lifestyle is if you have your Bibles turn or tap With me to 2nd Corinthians chapter 5 verses 14 and 15 I'm not going to stay here, but I want to establish as a foundation. What is the foundation? Here's the foundation We should be different Than before we came to Christ. That's just a foundational statement. How should Christians live? Differently than before they were Christians that seems kind of logical But just take a look the way the Apostle Paul addresses is 2nd Corinthians chapter 5 14 and 15 for Christ compels us Because we are convinced that one died for all and therefore all died and then verse 15 and he died for all that those who live Should no longer live for themselves, but for him Who died for them and was raised again? Now this is two verses in a very large contextual book But the reason I chose these two verses I want you to see this simple Fact that as Christians the very first thing we must do is recognize That the way we live as a Christian should be different in some regard or fashion To the way we lived before we became Christians. I Don't think that's a crazy idea. I Don't think it is But what this idea really challenges is where is the center of your? Theology in your relationship with Jesus see if I am the center of my theology if I as a human if I as a person If I believe that God loves me and wants me to be happy Then my happiness is the metric by which I measure what is good and what is bad what is correct and what is not But if I believe that God loves me and wants me to be holy Well, then I have a different metric. I have a different measuring stick So what I want to first establish the foundation of the question or the foundation of the answer What does it mean to live a Christian lifestyle means you should be living differently than before you became a Christian, right? That's easy Now second, what is the expectation foundation? Okay, I got to be different. What does that really mean now? We'll dig down a little bit. Here's the expectation You and I should be holy in the way we live Now that sounds like a super churchy sentence and I promise we're gonna unpack it and make sense But if the foundation is I should be different then the expectation is we should be holy in the way we live And I'm gonna show it this to you from two different places So, you know, I'm not making it up take a look at turn or tap to Leviticus chapter 20 verse 26 Leviticus 20 26 You are to be holy to me you are to be holy to me because I The Lord am holy and I have set you apart From the nations to be my own now. We're in the book of Leviticus So that was like way early in the Bible story, right? Like that was way back during the Moses times but God's expectation of his people was that they should be holy to Him and here's where I think we have to stop and address the elephant in the room Americans get the word holy wrong all the time So our colloquial or our cultural definition of the word holy is we are holy By what we do not do I'm holy because I don't watch those kinds of videos I'm holy because I don't use those kinds of words. I'm holy because I don't go to that kind of church I'm holy because I don't wear those kinds of clothes. That's not Holiness It's not we've gotten the word holy wrong in the way we apply it Which is why then we get terms like holy roller, right? We get a term like a holy what is if you've never turned heard the term holy roller then God bless you. That's fantastic Or holier than thou right anybody ever heard that one. Oh, you're just holier than thou. No, but here's the problem God's expectation is not for us to be holy. It is for us to be holy to him. You see the difference We are to be holy to him. We are to be holy because of his actions not because of mine So what does the word holy mean the word holy means to be set apart to be made different Holy literally means to be set apart for a different purpose My favorite analogy to try to explain holiness Did anybody grow up in either your mama house or your grandmama's house? Who had guest towels? Anybody Okay, so my mama who's gonna be watching this when she gets out of church, so I got to be careful what I say My mama grew up and in my house. We had guest towels. So I was the kid I was the kid I was the teenager my bathroom was shared with the guest bathroom, right? So we had a bathroom and me and the guest room So whenever my grandparents visited aunts uncles cousins families, whatever my mama had guest towels and these towels are a lot nicer Than teenager towels, right? So my mom had a very ugly very smelly You know sweaty 14 year old teenage boy. So I got towels that were just Dirty teenage boy towels. That's all they were they were like a step above gym rat towels. Those were my towels. I Love my towels mom. Thank you so much But when my grandmother would come to visit The dirty sweaty teenager towels didn't stay in the bathroom anymore. They got hung on a hook in my room So I would shower I would go to my room and I hang the nasty teenager towels in my bedroom to dry and my Mother would take out of the closet a much nicer towel They're softer. They're like embroidered. They have these beautiful little frilly like, you know girly edges on them because Now the bathroom is not just being used by the sweaty grubby teenager The bathroom is being used by the matriarch of my family My grandmama is in town the bathroom Needed to be at a higher level Because of who was using it My grandmama's here and my grandmama gets the good stuff my grandmama gets the good towels That is what holiness is. That's what I think about every time I think about the word holiness I think about the kinds of towels that my mother would hang for my grandmother when she came to visit Grandma got the good good. She got the good super soft super embroidered towels Why because that bathroom is now meant for a better purpose? It's meant not just for my everyday use it is meant for the use and honor of the matriarch of my family When my grandmama is in town everybody stops because grandmama's grandma This is what it means to be holy by putting out the guest towels the towels themselves are set apart For a better purpose than daily use now in years gone by I've expanded that analogy anybody ever used a paper towel right Paper towel, what do you use it for you use it for something that is? Disposable right you use a paper towel in the kitchen to you know mop something up because you know you're gonna throw it away How about a shop towel? right Mike use shop towels at work right if you're gonna work on a car use shop towels Why because the moment those shop towels are used they're not getting washed They're getting tossed because they're stained beyond belief so different towels have different purposes your your paper towels are immediately disposable Shop towels those you work on cars those are immediately disposable does anybody keep a towel around the house That's just for icky stuff to clean up right why because you're not gonna bathe with that towel right? That's the garage towel That's not to put it in the bathroom towel. Why because we've created a ranking system for towels But the top of the line the set apart for a better purpose is grandma's guest house That's what it means to be holy it means to realize that I am no so when God says That he called what does he say right here look at it again 26 you? Are to be holy to me Because I the Lord am holy and I have set you apart It is God who promoted you from paper towel to guest towel It is his promotion of your life that sets you apart not your own importance That's the theological difference if I believe that God needs me to be happy Then I am still the center of my life, but if I believe that God has redeemed me From being a paper towel And you know being used to pick up the dog poop or pick or clean up the shop towels And he has transformed me into something for his honor Then I no longer do these things because his honor is way better than that purpose The entire focus of my life has changed that's what it means to be holy It's not I am holy because I don't do it is I am holy because of he has done in me you see the difference So and just in case you thought perhaps this was only an Old Testament perspective Let's turn and look at first Peter chapter 1 verse 15 But just as he who called you is holy So be holy in all you do So here's the New Testament Peter is repeating the same narrative So the foundation of how do you live as a Christian is differently than you did before? The expectation is that you should now live as someone who has been set apart by God for God See I think it's the two of them together that we struggle with in America We like that we're set apart by God, but we still want to live for ourselves, right? I want to be set apart by God for me That's not holiness. That's selfishness Holiness is when the purpose of my life is driven by his purposes Not my pleasure not my own design or not. Excuse me. Not my own desire, but God's design That's holiness when I am still focused on my own life and what I want and what I get out of it and what it does For me, I'm not living for him. You cannot have to number one You cannot have two priority ones. I mean you have that you learn that super early in life There's only one number one and whatever the number one is in your heart. That's your idol I don't mean it doesn't matter what it is your family your marriage your children your job work money self-pleasure It doesn't really matter But if we are truly to live this out to be holy we have to understand it is God's holiness. He is the source of holiness He because he's the only one who can set us apart You cannot set yourself apart from creation, you know why because you're in creation we're a part of it That's why the whole story is important We are a continuation of the story that began in Genesis 1 1 the story will conclude at the end of the book of Revelation We're in the middle The reason you cannot set yourself apart from the story is you're in it The only person who can reach into creation and set you apart is he who is outside Creation he who made it can set you apart So now we've established that we need to be different now. We've established that the expectation is for us to be holy What does that look like? So that was all the introduction now here we go I Stay I was trying to figure how do I build this succinctly turn now? Here's where we're really going turn or tap with me to the book of Colossians Colossians chapter 2 we're gonna start reading in verse 20 and we are gonna read all the way to 317 Because I couldn't find a way to break up this argument in any better fashion. So got my on the clock We're gonna make our own time, but I got to explain this So first you have to understand you have to be different second. God is the reason that you're different It's not because of you. It's not because how important or good-looking you are. Even those are all super true That's why you go to church here because you're both important and good-looking We are set apart because of God so with those two expectations now here's what do we have to do as Christians Here's the way I'm gonna phrase this we need to live for Christ Not for the world around us or for ourselves and I know that sounds super churchy, right? Well, I just need to live for Jesus Yes Like that's 100% that we could just stop just live for Jesus and you'd be alright. The problem is is what does that mean? What does that look like? again We have got to get out of the churchy talk and get down into where the the Nikes have to hit the ground and blue jeans Got to walk down the street. What does it mean to live for Christ? And not for the world or for ourselves. So first I want to read Colossians Chapter 2 starting in verse 20 will go all the way down to 317 then we'll jump back to the beginning We'll walk through it. So here we go Colossians chapter 2 starting in verse 20 Since you died with Christ to the elemental spiritual forces of this world Why is though you still belong to this world? Do you submit to its rules? Do not handle do not taste do not touch These rules which have to do with things that are all destined to perish with use are based on merely human commands and teachings Such regulations indeed have an appearance of wisdom with their self-imposed worship and their false humility their harsh treatment of the body But they lack any value in restraining sensual indulgence Since then you have been raised with Christ Set your hearts on things above where Christ is seated at the right hand of God Set your mind on the things above and not on earthly things For you died and your life is now hidden with Christ in God When Christ who is your life appears, then you will also appear with him in glory Put to death therefore whatever belongs to your earthly nature sexual immorality impurity lust evil desires and greed which is idolatry Because of these or because of these the wrath of God is coming You used to walk in these ways in the life you once lived But now you must also rid yourself of all such things as these anger rage malice Slander and filthy language from your lips don't lie or do not lie to each other Since you have taken off your old self with its practices and put on the new self Which is being renewed in the knowledge in the image of its creator Here are here. There is no Gentile or Jew circumcised or uncircumcised Barbarian Scythian slave or free but Christ is all and is in all therefore Choose as God's chosen people Holy and dearly loved clothe yourselves with compassion kindness humility gentleness and patience bear with each other and Forgive one another if any of you has a grievance against someone Forgive as the Lord forgave you and all other virtues Put on love which binds them all together in perfect unity Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts since as members of one body you were called to peace and Be thankful Let the message of Christ dwell among you richly as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom through Psalms Hymns and songs from the spirit singing to God with gratitude in your hearts in whatever you do whether in word or deed Do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus Give thanks to God the Father through him Now I know that was a long passage, but I needed I just needed you to see the whole breadth of what Paul's throwing down Here, so let's go back So we've established our baseline we should be different we now established the purpose for that difference is God calling us to be holy You got a promotion from a paper towel to a guest towel. So now what does that look like? Here we go Starting in verse 20. The first thing is you need to live free from the rules of this world Look at verse 20 since you died with Christ to the elemental spiritual forces of this world Why is though you still belong to the world do you submit to its rules if You belong to Christ you outrank the world You know why not because you are special but because he is if I belong to Christ I am now transferred out of the kingdom of the world and into the kingdom of Christ I don't live by the world's rules anymore. I live by his rules now. Here's the challenge, right? I got to live by his rules in this world. Yeah, that sucks. It's hard. It's okay to say But those rules don't apply to me anymore His rules apply to my life his rules apply to my marriage his rules apply to the relationship with my children His rules apply to my relationship with y'all why because now I belong to him his rules Supercede the rules of this world that makes sense So in Paul so number one I want you to understand Paul is saying you need to live free from the rules of this world Let me give you a really direct application In the coming weeks and months our country is going to lose its mind right Just so those who are new to our family Let me let you know a little secret the last time this country elected a president. This church was very hurt Okay, I'm not throwing anybody under the bus. I'm just teaching the truth There was a lot of division that happened in this room during the 2020 election I will stand here as a pastor and guarantee you one very very real thing That division doesn't make it in these walls period why Because this building answers to a way bigger ranking authority I don't really mind in your individual personal lives. Those of you who are citizens you have every right to Investigate our country have your political opinions. You are welcome to be a good citizen I would argue that the bible even calls you to be a well-informed and good citizen but those rules Don't apply to this book There's your direct application, you know people in fact coming back from Africa I'm still getting text messages from some of my friends over there one of them messaged me this week They said pastor bill. Are you okay? And i'm like I mean, yeah, i'm hungry. What's going on? And they said all we can see on our news is that your country is angry and people are rioting and people are Are fighting is your church safe? We're praying for your people and I said Number one, I would say what you see on the news is a carefully curated story of what they want you to see, right? So you're only seeing that part of it. I said yes, my country is starting to fight with itself Do you know why none of this bothers me? I really don't care who Babylon elects as their next king Christianity outlasted the romans the greeks the turks the ottomans gangus khan like The kingdom of christ will outlast creation itself Whatever happens in the next six to 12 months of my country does not change my hope for the future Because my hope is rooted on a way bigger person than whoever gets elected in november Now does that mean that if you and I were talking on my personal time outside of church that I may have my own Personal opinions about the direction of our country sure totally but I will guarantee you this right now You will never hear that from this pulpit for now for the rest of the time that i'm the pastor here because This is my rule book This is what my job is to bring to you. I live outside And and covet taught us that Especially I don't know if you weren't at our church in virginia But in virginia every single week the the governor would send out rules and as a church We were required to read them and abide by them and the bible is very clear You obey your governing authorities Until such time as obeying the governing authorities requires disobeying god That's it. This is not a hard rule guys. We obey until We have to choose between the two levels of authority and there was a few times That we would receive instructions that I had to say I cannot obey this because I must obey this outside of that like Babylon's gonna do what babalones gonna do And I don't hang the hope for my future my marriage my family or my church on what babalon chooses to do or not Do why because I live outside and free from the rules of this world I live by a different covenant I live under a different authority and that covenant and that authority allows me to live in this world But not be overly affected by it why because my prince, you know, his name is he is the prince of That's all I need to be peaceful in the middle of all of this Vitriol that happens we have to live free from the rule of this world look 21 He said do not handle do not taste do not touch. These are all rules that come from human commands 22 I don't have to obey rules that come from human commands. I obey the rules that come from god's commands So the first thing I need you to understand is you should live free from the rules of this world The second thing I need you to understand starts in chapter 3 verse 1. That's where I'm going here chapter 3 verse 1 We need to reset our thinking to a heavenly perspective And this is something that I will admit as human beings and especially as americans. Our society is built on individualism Everybody sees the world through their own lens. It's like our entire country took a page from the burger king playbook And everybody wants to have it your way That is our culture We are culturally built on the idea that every single person can have everything they want their way As a christian, you must let that go and reset your perspective To a heavenly perspective. Look at this So the reason we're freed from the rules is because we died with christianity The reason we're freed from the rules is because we died with christ The reason we reset our perspective is because look at verse 1 of chapter 3 since then you have been raised with christ Set your hearts on things above where christ is seated at the right hand of god set your mind on things above Not on earthly things why verse 3 for you died in your life is now hidden with christ in god Now hidden here Has a slightly different connotation than it means in english So in english normally when you hide something it is concealing it right if I hide something under my jacket You can no longer see it the word hidden here Does not just mean covered but it means covered or concealed for safety right Anybody ever been holding a baby and you see something coming? What do you do you immediately do this? Why you are? Concealing it from whatever that impending danger is right if I was holding micah and he was sleeping And I saw anything that looked like it might make noise Why i'm not just hiding my child i'm concealing him Right, that's what this word really means here when it says in chapter 3 verse 3 For you died and your life is now hidden with christ in god. It is now safely Concealed in christ why because it is christ I now represent I have been concealed and my safety is hidden in christ and it is now his image that I am called to reflect I'm, not supposed to reflect me anymore. I'm supposed to reflect the the best Bill-shaped jesus that I can project to you You should have the u-shaped jesus why because if you are hidden in christ It should be christ they see and not you That's why it should be jesus they see when they see us it should be jesus they hear When they speak to us I'll tell you right now the holy spirit sounds like melanie ohms Right, there are plenty of times my wife and I are having a conversation and the holy spirit sounds an awful lot like melanie That's what all of us I I just wish all of you could have a melanie right I wish all of you could have that person in your life That they just sound So Wise or spiritual when they speak and it's based on god not just their own you know personal templates Why now verse three because I died I am now hidden in christ. I am concealed for my safety It is him look at verse four when christ who is your life? appears Then you will also appear with him in glory the future Is that we will be with him in glory the present is that we reflect him today? That's there and then here's the third thing so Let me rewind here Number one I need you to live free from the world number two I need you to reset your thinking into heavenly perspective and number three. I need you to stop sin-based activity Just stop stop sin-based activity he picks this up at verse five put to death therefore whatever belongs to your earthly nature Whatever belongs to your earthly nature and then he gives you a list sexual immorality impurity lust evil desires greed which is idolatry Therefore because a we died to sin and b we are raised with christ Now we have to put death the old earthly nature because we are expected to live differently If you want me to define the old earthly nature for you. It's everything that pleases self over christ That's the easiest way I can spell it for you If you struggle to let go of something that is ungodly ask yourself why If I am to reflect christ and not bill And I got this thing in my life That 100 makes bill happy but does not make christ happy and I struggle to let go of it ask yourself why More than likely and i'm just going to take a random shot from the hip guess More than likely you're going to find it's rooted in selfishness unwilling to give over myself to christ And now verse six, why should we get rid of these? Um, because the wrath of god is coming we studied revelation, right? It gets legit. It gets real it gets locust people coming out of the ocean. Don't believe me read it. It's in the book Verse seven we used to walk in these ways in the life you Once lived right go back to our first point That's why we live differently now we used to walk in these ways in life. You once lived verse eight, but now You must also rid yourself of all these things anger rage malice slander filthy language from your lips Nine do not lie to each other since You have taken off your old self with its practices You can't be two people Kind of like two-face the the batman villain from the dc comics Is this is this a Selfishness or to say it another way just don't be a hypocrite Don't claim to represent jesus, but sell yourself Don't claim to represent jesus, but prioritize yourself if you want to live in selfishness, then just call it that Don't don't don't put on the christian face and pretend that you belong to christ when really you prioritize yourself If I belong to christ i prioritize christ myself you are your own idol. There's just, I mean, not meaning to be mean, it's just sort of in the book it's truth. My job is to point it out. Verse 8, but rid yourself of all, we just talked about verse 8. Verse 9, don't lie to each other since you have taken off the old self with its practices. And then here's the fourth thing, fourth thing, after you stop committing sin activity, number four, start living as a reflection of Christ. And now I'm just going to really double down on the same point that I already made. Verse 10, and have put on the new self. The new self is the you plus Jesus. Remember, Jesus equals more than zero, then you plus Jesus has to look somehow different. And the new self, why? The new self which is being renewed in knowledge, in the image of its creator. So here's what I want you to understand about verse 10. Number one, when something is being renewed, it's a work in progress. It's a process. Learning to live and make your lifestyle be obedient to Christ does not happen in a single moment for most people. There are those incredibly rare, wonderfully holy people who are not me, who they come to Jesus and their life turns on a dime and they never look back and transforming their life was just an act of ease. That is not my life. So if that's you, then I am jealous of you. I will pray for you. Congratulations. But that's not me. Learning to make myself obey Christ more than my own desires is a challenge. It is a difficulty. Self-discipline is like the worst two word in our culture. No one wants to self-discipline. I want to self-please. But if I am to be a reflection of Christ, admit that being renewed is a process. So what I would say is this. If you do not, if you have not placed your faith in Christ today and you choose to make that moment today, I place my faith in Christ as not just by savior but my king and I live for him starting today, then tomorrow some one small aspect of your life should be different than today. But 99.9% of it is probably going to be the same. You are still going to wake up and put on a pair of britches from your closet. Look, I can say britches and try to reach all the southerners at one time. Don't expect your life to turn on a dime. It is a big boat. Make slow turns. But make slow enough turns that you don't ever have to go back and do the second thing twice. Pastor Rick, my mentor, always used to say don't go around the mountain twice. If the Holy Spirit is leading you to a lesson that he wants you to learn, dude, just learn it and then move on, right? Don't go around the mountain because you know what the Holy Spirit is going to do? He is going to keep you right there at that level. You will go around and around and around and around and you are like, Lord, why am I not getting anywhere? The mountaintop is right there. Because you haven't learned the lesson that lets you go up to the mountaintop yet. That was Pastor Rick's lesson. Never go around the mountain twice. I am being renewed every day. But notice how we are renewed here in verse 10. You are renewed in knowledge, in the image of the Creator. So I am renewed in knowledge, in the image. In other places in scripture it says to renew your mind, right? What you think about directs the way you live. Period. If you spend your day thinking about how to make more money, your decisions, interestingly enough, all tend to be centered on the motivation of making more money. If you live your life to the fullest, you are going to live your life to figure out when do I get to make myself happy next. Whether that is with food, whether that is with sex, whether that is with drugs, whether that is with pride and the feeling of appreciation from humans. If you live your life on the paradigm of when do I get to feel happy next, interestingly enough, all of your life choices will be chasing personal pleasure. But if you live your life on the question of how do I honor and reflect Christ today, amazingly enough, your life begins to reflect a whole lot more Jesus and a whole lot less of that original you. But it is still going to be a process. It is still going to be renewing in knowledge, in the image of its creator. Jesus will always be the goal. We will spend the rest of our lives trying to be more like Jesus and hopefully each day maybe getting a little bit more there. Sometimes it takes a week, a month, or even a year to really work out an issue in your life. Don't expect to be super Christian tomorrow. You are setting yourself up for failure. Anybody who has walked with Jesus long enough can tell you it is a seasonal thing. You are going to reap harvests year after year after year if you do the work each year. If you sit back and just stare at the field and wait for the fruit, that's not really how it works. Then look at verse 11. Here we are talking about unity. Here there is no Gentile, no Jew, no circumcised, uncircumcised, barbarian, sithian, slave, free. But Christ is all and is in all. Once we choose to be reflections of Christ, our human divisions no longer matter. This is the key to church unity if you didn't see it. The reason all of us can sit in this room and all of you can join us online and we can be one family is because we are all adopting a singular identity. Christ. I come from my story and I have become like Christ. My wife comes from her story, she becomes like Christ. Dottie comes from her story, becomes like Christ. Sean comes from his story and becomes like Christ. But it is in this like Christ that we all meet and it is in this like Christ where we all find the greatest form of unity. Why? Because each one of us is dying to the old self while reflecting the new image of Christ. It just looks a little different. It sounds a little different. It comes with a little bit of different culture. In Miss Rose's case it comes with way better cooking than mine for sure. But it is this in Christ, this is where we all find our unity. Verse 12, therefore as God's chosen people, notice the plurality there. He is talking about all of us finding our individual image in Christ and then in verse 12 he talks about all of us as a group. Therefore as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved, who are we holy and dearly loved by? Jesus, God. Clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness and patience. This is the reflection of Jesus that should hopefully come out of every one of us. And then 13, bear with each other, forgive one another. Somebody is struggling with that. I'll give you this, one of y'all has trouble forgiving other people. You know how I know that? Because there is at least a person in this room. If I was the only person in this room I could still say that's true. Forgiveness is hard. And let me just tell you, if you are struggling to forgive somebody please mention it on your connect card. I would love to talk to you about that because I think with a brief five minute conversation of helping you understand what a picture of God's forgiveness really looks like, it would help you to understand how to forgive people. God is the greatest example of forgiveness that we will ever have. So just side bar, if you are struggling with a grudge, you're holding on to something, you're struggling to forgive somebody, when we get to connect card time, put that on there, mention it, we will hook up, text, get a milkshake, we'll talk. 14, and over all of these virtues put on love, which binds them all together in perfect unity. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts since as members of one body you were called to peace and be thankful. You know I think the greatest testimony our church will be able to give this year is as election season ramps up and as our country turns and like barks at itself 24 hours a day on social media, we're going to be able to walk in this room and love one another and have peace. Because the prince of peace is who rules in this house. I tell people all the time when you come to church it's like walking onto an embassy. The United States of America is the street just outside the parking lot. When your car came into the parking lot of catalyst you left the United States of America and you entered the kingdom of Christ. And here in this room we are all at peace because we are under his rule. Now we're eventually going to have to leave the embassy and go back out into the United States of America. Totally get that, sure. But any time you need to find peace you come home. Because this is home now. That will be one of the greatest testimonies that our church can give its community in the coming weeks and coming months. Is we will be a people of peace. Somebody asked me the other week and I don't remember who it was. Somebody asked me how do I be a Christian in the culture that I live in right now. The best testimony you can give is be a person of peace. While everybody else is losing their minds. Right? And they do. People get so angry and they love to hate. We will love to love. When they love conflict we will love peace. And in doing so we will be a place where hurting people can find rest, can find refreshment. You know I'm going to let you in on a little clue. Those of you who have talked to me outside of church. There is a single common denominator that flows through. Some of you are already nodding. You know what I'm about to say. There is a single common denominator that flows through almost every family who has joined our church in the last year. Or even visited our church. Some of you are here this morning. You haven't become partners yet. But you're here. You're a part of the Catalyst family. You know what that is? Hurt people. Almost exclusively every family that I have been able to speak to who has become a partner or regular attendee of Catalyst in the last 12 to 18 months has come to us hurt or wounded either from a previous church experience, a previous pastoral experience or a previous family experience. Do you know what that tells me about our church? Y'all can love some folk. And I will admit to you I don't think I earned that. I don't think I did anything. Mike, I think you guys were loving before I ever showed up. I think that is in the walls. I think it was poured in the concrete of the foundations of this church. We will be a church that loves. I didn't lead that. I didn't earn it. And I promise you if you're watching this online I don't take credit for it. That's what the Holy Spirit has poured into the bricks and mortar and pipes of this building is we will be a place that loves. But as the shepherd I can tell you you are sitting amongst a large group of wounded sheep. But how wonderful is it? Just look let me show you my perspective for one moment. God trusts the people who are in here. He trusts the people of catalyst so much that he sends us the wounded sheep because he knows number one we will protect them. Number two we will help him to heal them. We are not the source of healing the Holy Spirit is. But we are a flock that will fiercely protect all of those who are in here to let people heal, to let people be restored, returned back to being that reflection of him because they walked in the door wounded. You did that. I did not do that. I've only been here for two and a half years. The church is going to celebrate its 75th anniversary like 18 months isn't it Mike? Like 18 months from now I think. Something like that. 12. 18 to 24 months we turned 75 y'all. The corner stone is out here on the front of the building. If you've never walked around to the Denver side of the building the corner stone is sitting there. 1951 I believe it was. We are a place that exudes peace in Jesus name. And those of you who are those sheep that I'm talking about, you 100% know what it feels like when you walk in the door. You walk in that door and there is just a peace here. I want you to know that's what this church is all about. That's who we are. We are representatives of the Prince of Peace. Our job is to reflect him not us. My job is to teach you how to live like Jesus not teach you how to live like Bill. That was your amen moment. You missed it. The world cannot handle too many of me's. My wife and sister in law would agree. They're both saying yeah no no no no. Alright so let me bring this in for a landing. What does this mean? Here's your take away. God expects his people to live set apart for him. We do this by leaving our old thinking and lifestyle behind and start living as reflections and representatives of Christ. Now some of you are disappointed and I know that. Some of you are hoping that I would stand up here and I would give you like a check box style sushi menu list of just don't do these 12 things and you can consider yourself righteous. The problem with that mentality is that's not how righteousness works. It doesn't matter anything that I do or don't do. Christ is where my righteousness comes from. That also means it doesn't matter how or where or when you come to him. It's his righteousness that changes your life. It's his holiness that sets you apart. It's his purpose and calling on your life that takes you from a paper towel to a guest towel. My only question if so I have two questions. My first is if you have not placed your full faith and trust in Christ are you ready to do that today? Are you ready to make that move today that says yes I believe Christ died I believe he rose I believe he's God and that's enough for me to trust everything to him. If that's you then you're going to have to tell me that on your connect card in a hot minute. But if you're already a question a question if you're already a question here's my follow up question for you. You Jen you would think I speak for a living right? If you are already a believer then you are a believer. See what I did there? I didn't make it twice. My question is how much reflection in your life does Christ have and how much is still you? Like let's just go scale on one to ten. One is like I literally got saved and I don't know how to be different. I'm reflecting 99.9% of me and the 1% of Christ is I placed my faith in him and I don't know what to do next. And ten is you are legit invisible and only people see Jesus. They call you Jesus when you get your coffee order. Okay? So somewhere between one and ten where are you today?