Human evolution
from
Evolution’s story of the history of humanity is one of gradual modification from the alleged single
common ancestor of all life, through several ape-like stages until finally humans arrive on the scene.
Is this verified by the fossil record? Let’s look at the evidence.
KEY TERMS
Modern Humans
Homo Sapiens,
Paleoanthropology is the scientific study of Emerged 200,00 years ago
human evolution.
Neanderthals
Hominin is the group of all modern and
Homo Neanderthalensis
extinct humans.
400,000 - 40,000 years ago
Hominid is the group of all modern and
extinct humans and apes. Homo Heidelbergensis
700,000 - 200,000 years ago
Australopithecus is an extinct group of
creatures believed to be the evolutionary
ancestor to modern day humans.
Homo Erectus
100,000 - 1.9m years ago
A BROKEN RECORD
Homo Habilus
The alleged story of human evolution has
1.4m - 2.4m years ago
several key problems with the fossil record.
a: Broken Timeline
There are large gaps of time in the fossil DARWIN OF THE GAPS
record in which few hominin fossils appear.
Each of the dotted lines connecting the
b: Broken Bones various groups within the genus Homo
Typical hominin fossils are a small selection represent inferred relationships with little
of bones or fragments. This makes is difficult to no actual fossil evidence. These alleged
to accurately define their size, shape, etc. connections are “inferred” because of the
assumption that evolution is assumed true.
c: Broken Agreement This is a combination of confirmation bias
With the scant fossil evidence available, and blind faith. Whenever there is a gap in
experts in the field do not agree with one the evidence, the belief in evolution takes
another. This leaves everything open to over. This is not belief based on evidence, it is
interpretation again and again. belief based on assumption.
© 2024 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.

human evolution
from
Evolution’s story of human history relies on several key pieces of evidence that are either completely
missing or have been presented out of context. In addition, there are some features of human life and
culture that do not fit with evolution’s story.
WHAT ABOUT LUCY? SHARED DNA
Lucy is the name given to the most famous It is often alleged that humans share DNA
australophithecine fossil discovered. She is with chimpanzees and this is evidence that
often described as walking on two legs as both evolved from the same ancestor. This is
not true. Two people can own the same car
an ape-like ancestor to modern humans.
but that doesn’t mean they bought it from the
However, there are several problems with
same dealership. Likewise, similarities in
this claim:
sequence do not prove singularity of source.
a: Only 40% of Lucy’s skeleton was recovered,
a: DNA is encoded with four bases,
the rest of her morphology had to be
represented by the letters A, G, C, T which
reconstructed with means 60% of the Lucy occur in pairs A-T and C-G. Because of this,
example is what she was chosen to look like. any two sections of DNA from any two living
things will have a one in four chance to
b: It was claimed that the shape of Lucy’s matching at any one point. This doesn’t mean
pelvis suggested she walked on two legs. humans and hydrangeas share a common
However it was later revealed her pelvis was ancestor. It simply shows we are all encoded
“badly crushed” with “distortion and cracking” with the same DNA language.
and had to be reconstructed. Thus, the
b: Humans and chimpanzees share many
conclusion of walking on two legs was from
traits. Both breathe air. Both drink water.
the choices made during reconstruction, not
Both eat fruit. Both have similar types of
the fossil evidence itself.
internal organs. Both have eyes, ears, noses
and mouths. Because of these facts, there
c: It was now been established that
is no real surprise to see there are shared
australopithecines are like apes, not humans.
sections of DNA between them. The greater
But this is only after she was celebrated point is that the DNA structures are about
around the world as the “missing link”. 400 million letters different!
NO OTHER LINKS EXIST A WORD ABOUT WORDS
If evolution is true, there should be Research has shows an explosion of
transitional forms to illustrate this language, art, and culture in the recent
development. There is currently no good history of human development. Evolution
candidates to establish a clear ancestral link offers no explanation for the rapid
between apes and modern humans. appearance of human-like culture from apes.
© 2024 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.