Jesus, we praise you for your great name. The name that makes the enemy flee just by speaking the name of Jesus. The name above any other name, we bow down to you today. We lift you in our worship and we pray that you would inhabit us and fill us with your Holy Spirit. Jesus, that your Holy Spirit would move in this place in the hearts and lives of these people today in your precious and holy name, amen.URGENT MUSIC I AM A CATTALIST I AM A CATTALIST I AM A CATTALIST I AM A CATTALIST I AM A CATTALIST I AM A CATTALIST I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. Well good morning church. Good morning. Alright we're going to learn a new sentence today. Say this with me. I am a catalyst. Fantastic everybody can read. Good job. Welcome to catalyst. My name is Bill. If you are new to our service today whether you're here on campus or you're joining us for the first time online welcome to the catalyst family. One thing we're about here at catalyst is very simple. Love people to life change. We want to love you but we don't want to leave you wherever we found you. Jesus has bigger plans for you. And so we want to love you today and challenge you to make a next step in your relationship with Jesus. That might be getting to know him for the first time or maybe you've grown up knowing him but it might be the next time or it might be the time to take a next step. So this morning we begin a new teaching series. I like teaching in series because it lets me spend a couple of weeks in an area like we just did with the parables and allows us to get a little deeper. But each time we have a series we're going to have a singular key thought. So here is the key thought for our message today and it's simply this. A catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates change in others. I want you to keep in mind this definition. A catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates change in others. Now the title of this morning's message is I am a catalyst the call. And I want you to turn with me in your Bibles to the gospel of Matthew. Matthew is going to be very easy to find. It's the first book in the New Testament. Likewise chapter 28 is going to be really easy to find. It's the last one. So if you want to cheat go to Mark and turn back one page. That's the cheater's way to do it. Go to the gospel of Mark turn back one page or if you're like me just swipe one time and you'll get to Matthew chapter 28. We're only going to look at five verses today. So somebody thinking oh goodness he's not going to speak for very long. I'm going to do my best to teach you something inspire you and get out on all in the right amount of time. So here we go. Matthew chapter 28. I'd like to read verses 16 to 20 and then we'll go back and we'll open it up and we'll start talking about it. So here we go. Matthew chapter 28. Begin reading in verse 16. Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee. Go to the mountain or excuse me. Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go. When they saw him they worshiped him. But some doubted. Verse 18. And Jesus came to them and said all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore go and make disciples of all nations baptizing them in the name of the father and of the son and of the Holy Spirit and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. I am surely with you always to the very end of the age. Now this may be a familiar passage for those of us who've grown up in church. It's commonly called the great commission. I'm going to tell you I think that's an incorrect title and here's why. As we go through the text today we have to ask ourselves a very important question. When Jesus is giving these instructions. Is Jesus giving instructions to individual followers or is he giving instructions to an organization that we now know is the church. And the reason that this question is important is it's going to totally change the way you understand how the text applies to you. In the same way if I were to ask you to wear a pair of red tinted glasses everything you look at would be a tad bit redder. So I want to challenge you this morning. Let's look let's go back and look at verse 16. It says then the eleven disciples went to Galilee. Now real quick if we remember our first second our first century geography. Galilee is up here on the top. Galilee is where Nazareth is. So Galilee is Jesus's back territory. Peter and Andrew James and John. They were all from up here in Galilee. Just south of Galilee you've got Samaria. That's where nobody likes to go. And then below that you actually have Judea. That's where Jerusalem is. That's where Bethany is. That's where like Mary Martha and Lazarus they're from. And so in Jesus's day whenever somebody wanted to travel from Galilee down here to Judea they would actually cross the Jordan River into the territory of the Greeks go down here and come over because that's how much they hated Samaritans. So just keep that in mind when you talk about Jesus making a Samaritan the star of one of his parables. But we're up here in Galilee. Galilee has Capernaum in it. That's probably where Peter was from. That's where Jesus's central ministry was when he was up here in Galilee. Now also the eleven disciples. Who are they? The eleven this really refers to the eleven of the twelve that Jesus chose the ones he called to be apostles. So never forget those of you who are trying to disciple people those you're trying to share your faith. Jesus himself recruited twelve but only graduated eleven. OK. So let's not hold ourselves to having to be perfect every time we invest in somebody. Jesus recruited twelve. He graduated eleven. These eleven do refer to the eleven apostles that we see in Acts chapter one. What I want you to understand is these are not the only people who believe in Jesus. If you look at Acts chapter one there's a large room of people upstairs when they're praying and then they choose Matthias to replace and then they pray and the Holy Spirit shows up. There's like one hundred and twenty believers in Jesus. But he gave specific instructions to these eleven and he said go and meet me up in Galilee. Now if you read all the gospels together here's what you're going to find out. Jesus was crucified on Good Friday. That's not a surprise right. We can start with that one. Jesus was crucified on Good Friday. He's raised. They discover the empty tomb. He then shows up in the middle of a locked room. Remember the story of Thomas. He says listen unless I touch his hand unless I touch his side all of that stuff's already happened. So Matthew jumps ahead in the story. He misses or passes those first initial appearances of Jesus and he jumps us right to where Jesus is now speaking to them up in Galilee. And notice the end of verse 16 where he told them to go. When did Jesus tell them to do this. I'm going to argue that I think it is in those post resurrection appearances that we see at the end of John. He said listen guys go meet me up in Galilee. Why. Well to be quite honest the apostles are afraid. I mean they just crucified the man they thought was the Messiah. They just killed the man they thought was supposed to be the new reigning king of the Jews. If they're going to kill him what on God's green earth are going to do to me. They're going to do to us. So Jesus tells them go up to Galilee. I want you to understand that as we get into this passage even in the midst of fear in the midst of uncertainty the disciples are obedient. Their fear of the Romans does not dissuade their obedience to Jesus and not only are they obedient but they're together. It says the eleven. It doesn't say the eleven except for Peter who was to ADHD to follow directions. That's how I feel like it should read when I read Peter's impetuousness. That's what I feel like it should be there. But it's not all eleven of them despite their fear despite their anxiety despite their uncertainty about what is next for the kingdom of God. They're together and they're obedient. Look at verse 17 when they saw him when they saw him. Here's what I need you to remember about the resurrection of Jesus. We're going to get more into it in Easter. But post resurrection Jesus was seen felt heard and touched for 40 days after Easter before the ascension right before Pentecost. So they physically saw Jesus. This is not an apparition. This is not a hallucination. This is not wishful thinking. This is the actual resurrected Jesus. They saw him. And of course I think this is really smart. They worshiped him. I don't know about you but if I was spending three years with a man who claimed to be the son of God who raised people from the dead who healed the blind who healed the lame who healed the death death and then he ultimately dies he claims that he will resurrect himself and then he actually does. I don't know about you but I'm pretty sure I'm just going to believe whatever that guy says you claim to be able to be God claim to come back from the dead deliver on that claim pretty sure I'm going to worship you. But then verse 17 really threw me for a loop. It says they saw him. They saw the evidence of the resurrected Christ. They worshiped him which means their worship and that word worship literally means they are scribing divinity to him. He is the divine son of God. Well then. Well then Pastor Bill why does it say they doubted? Like that really that really threw me for a loop. I would say one third to half of my sermon prep time this week was really doing a deep dive and asking myself the question if they saw the resurrected Jesus they talked to him. The gospel of John says they ate with him. They were fishing and Jesus is on shore and he's like cooking them up fish and stuff for breakfast like if me and the resurrected Jesus just went to a Waffle House and had breakfast. What is there left to doubt? And this is where I think this this this doubt is probably the most important key to understanding this passage because so many times and I'll be honest so many times I've read this passage it's almost in my mind when they saw him they worshiped him then Jesus came to them and said I skipped over those three little words but some doubted. So let's imagine this unpack this for a minute. What are they doubting? Well let's rule things some things out. Number one are they doubting Jesus's resurrection? No because the beginning of verse 17 says they saw him. They had the actual evidence that showed that Jesus resurrected. So they're not they're not doubting his resurrection. Are they doubting his divinity? No because the next part of that sentence says they saw him they worshiped him. So they're not doubting his resurrection. They're not doubting his divinity. I would argue if someone resurrects and is divine I'm not doubting what he's teaching me. So what are they doubting? In order to answer this question we got to remember what a conversation is like. If you and I are having a conversation and I pick up on the fact that you're unsure about something what do you think my next step is going to be? You shore up whatever it is you're unsure about. We are jumping into a recorded conversation. So to their doubt to the doubt that the Savior experiences in his own chosen apostles he responds in verse 18. Then big word there then that word means that whatever happens in verse 18 is in response to verse 17. You see that? Then Jesus came to them and said. So verse 18 is the response to verse 17. Then Jesus came to them and said all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Are they doubting this fact? I don't think so. If somebody resurrects and you're worshiping them as divine I don't think a first century Jew is going to think that God doesn't have authority. Right? I mean let's just think about the Jewish perspective of God from the Old Testament. The Old Testament God doesn't suffer fools. The Old Testament God doesn't play. You want to hold my children hostage and keep them slaves in a foreign land. I'm going to send plagues. I'm going to separate the waters of the Red Sea. I'm going to send fire down on Mount Carmel. Why? Because I'm God and you're not. So I don't believe and keep in mind all of the apostles are first century Jews. I don't believe they are doubting the authority of Jesus. So we got to keep going. What is it that they're doubting? Well whatever they're doubting he's rooting the answer in his authority. So let me ask the question. Does Jesus still have authority today? Yes, I would argue absolutely does. He is still the risen King of Kings, the risen Lord of Lords. He is still the promised Messiah of the Jewish people, the second member of the Trinitarian Godhead who is there at creation and will be there in revelation. Like he's all of these things. So I don't think that they are doubting his authority but he makes sure to remind them about his authority and then probably the most important word in this whole passage, the very first word of verse 19. Therefore. You ever heard the old joke? Whenever you see a therefore you should ask what is it? Therefore. Yes, because the word therefore subjugates whatever is in verse 19 to what just happened in verse 18. So what Jesus is saying is to my lovely awesome 11 apostles, because I have all authority therefore. So the instruction in 19 is predicated on the authority from 18 and we're still trying to answer the question from 17. What are they doubting? Here it goes. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Theologically, Jesus is the risen King of Kings and God the Father hands all authority to him post resurrection. Just in case anybody's wondering why is authority given to Jesus? Because Jesus willingly submitted to the will of his father in order to be the Savior. And then as he's the risen King, he's now given back all of that authority. Verse 19. Therefore go and make disciples of who? Of all nations. Now what in this sentence could a first century Jew possibly doubt? Do they think it's wrong to go and make disciples? No. Even in the Old Testament we see that there were proselytes, there were Greeks who came to the God of the Jews in the New Testament, they're called God-fearers. So do they have a problem with missions work? No they don't. But they have a major problem with something in this sentence. A first century Jew has to ask the question, hey Jim, like Jim you and I have a conversation, everybody else can take five and take some coffee. If you and I are first century Jews, why does the Jewish Messiah matter to the rest of the Greek speaking world? Isn't he ours? Like Jesus didn't you do all of this for our people? Like from Abraham to Isaac to Jacob to Moses to Elijah, then Micah promises our Messiah. Like why we gotta share? Like Jim can't you just tell everybody else like he's our God. Y'all go get your own God. You go get your own resurrected Savior because Jesus is mine. That's not, I mean I know I'm making light of it, but that's not too far off the first century Jewish understanding of who the Messiah was. The Messiah is the promised King of the Jewish people. All you rest of you pagans and you Gentiles, y'all can go to hell because he came for us. He came for me. He didn't come to save all you Corinthians who go to church and have sexual temple prostitutes. He came for Israel. Why? He's not the promised Israel and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. He's ours. And now all of a sudden Jesus is going, well. Jesus is challenging something that was fundamental to the first century Jewish understanding of who their Messiah was. Jim, he belongs to us. You need to tell everybody else to take five and step back. He's my Messiah. And Jesus is saying, no, no, no, no, no. You've been with me three years. Come on, catch up. Right? Well, you've been with me three years and I've challenged the Pharisees on a lot of things. So Jesus, remember, Eric, take me back one to verse 18. I need to show you something. All authority. Is there anything left outside of the word all? No, there is not. So Jesus is saying all authority in heaven and on earth, that's a Jewish idiom for everywhere. So all authority everywhere is given to me. So does that mean that Jesus only has authority over Jews? No, it means all authority everywhere. Does that mean Jesus has authority over Romans? Yeah, all authority everywhere. What about Greeks? Oh, what about Egyptians? Right? What about the Turks? What about the Ottomans? What about the Chinese? What about the Hawaiians? Like dude, we're still having sushi on the islands. We haven't even heard about Jesus yet. Does that mean Jesus' authority is not that far out there? No, all authority. Okay, now let's go back forward. Because all authority is given to Jesus, you've now got to go and make disciples of all nations. Now if you were to look in the Greek, that word all nations is actually ethnos. What English word does that sound like? Ethnic. Where we get our English word ethnic comes from the same root word as ethnos. And it means people, groups, people, types. So what Jesus is saying is, now that I am resurrected, now that I am the king, and I am the king over all people in every place, you've got to go and make disciples of all nations. I believe this is the part that they're doubting. I don't think they're doubting the resurrection. I don't think they're doubting his authority. But Jim, how come, like how come we got to save everybody else? Like when's our time? I mean in all honesty, the Old Testament has some outstanding promises for the Jewish people when it comes to their promised land, when it comes to their king, when it comes to their Messiah. When we get around to talking about the revelation, I think I can show you why that's where those promises happen. But to a first century Jew, they're like Jim, where's our kingdom? Like they just killed the guy I thought was going to be king. What's going on here? And Jesus says, no, no, no, no. Because I have all authority everywhere, you've got to go make disciples for me in all places, all people groups. No longer is it acceptable to use people groups or ethnicity or beliefs or any other human construct to determine who is and is not worthy to be made a disciple. That was the amen moment. Only Megan got it. Let's try that again. No longer is it acceptable to use any other human construct to resist or stop people from becoming disciples of Jesus. There we go. Now you're starting to get where we're going. A catalyst is, what's the definition? A catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates change in others. What we have here in verse 19 is the Savior saying, because I have risen, because I am God, because I now have authority everywhere, I want disciples everywhere of everyone in every people group. Now, how are you going to do that? This is how we're going to do that. We're going to baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Now there's been a lot of ink spilled on theological book after theological book of why Jesus used the Trinity here. Because in other places in the book of Acts, it doesn't say that. So the first thing I need to tell you is this. You don't actually have to baptize someone in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit for it to be biblical. Because if I look to the book of Acts, they just straight up baptize people into Jesus. There wasn't this Trinitarian statement used every single time. So why? Why does Jesus do this? I think there's one very, very, very key reason. Belief in God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit is a uniquely Christian belief. Think about it. Do Jews believe in God the Father? Old Testament Jews. Yes, they do. Do Jews have a full understanding of the Spirit? Maybe, maybe not. They knew that the Spirit fell on some people, and some people prophesied, and some people did some healing, but not in the way we have in the New Testament. But there is only one people group on the planet who recognizes the Son of God as the King of Kings, and that's Christians. What Jesus is saying here is, from here on out, no matter what people group you find, those people can become followers of me. Because of why? Because of the authority and the victory that I won back here. This is like, woo, mind blowing to a first century Jew. First century Jew just wanted somebody to beat back the Romans and give us our kingdom. I didn't think we were doing this whole spiritual save everybody from sin thing. Which is funny, because I could look to the Old Testament and see that there was an expectation of saving from sin. I could look to the beginning of the New Testament when the angel appears to Mary. What does he say? And your son will save their people from their sins. Like God had a plan. The people might not have caught up to it yet. And that's why I believe they could see him, they could worship him. What about that whole all people groups thing? Jesus, are we really serious here? Are we really going to start asking pagans to believe in you? Like I thought you were my messiah. See, we live 2000 years after this event and Christianity has traveled across the globe. So we're almost inoculated to how odd and strange it feels to let non-Jews be Christians. In fact, if we look to the book of Galatians, Paul had a whole other problem. And Paul, as the gospel is spreading and once it got outside of Judea, the gospel spread like wildfire through Gentile Greco-Roman society. So much so that I would say by the end of the first century, the majority of the church is actually Gentile not Jewish. And Paul has to write the book of Galatians and say, no, no, no, no. No, Jim, like I love your passion. But you got to stop making people be Jews before they come to become Christians. They can just go straight to Jesus. That's what the whole book of Galatians is about. See, because now all of a sudden, the kingdom of God is bigger than just us Jews, right? It's bigger than just me and Jim and the rest of you all are out. Now all of a sudden, anybody can become a Christian. Why? Anybody who can say, I believe that God the Father sent the Son and the Spirit has to be a Christian. You can't be a Muslim and believe that. You can't be a Jew and believe that. You can't be a Roman polytheist and believe that. In order to believe that simple sentence and now also baptize in the name. Here's the other thing we got to remember. Baptism, giant symbol throughout all of the Bible. If you want to hear more about it, just put that on your connect card. I'd love to talk to you about it. It's super important. But what did John baptize people into? John's baptism, John the Baptist was a baptism of repentance. Here you're now being baptized into the name of Jesus. Therefore baptize, go and then let's look at verse 20. We're not done yet with the disciple making process. And teach them to obey everything I have commanded you. So now not only is Jesus telling these 11 very Jewish apostles of his that you're going to have to go to all the people groups of the world and teach them to be baptized in my name. But you also need to teach them everything I've taught you. Teach them and here's the thing. Not only do you need to teach them what I taught you, but you need to teach them to obey it. Right? All parents in the room. How many times have you tried to teach your child a lesson and then watch them disobey it? If you're next to your kid it's totally acceptable to elbow them right now at this moment. There's a difference between teaching something and teaching them to obey something. I can teach you a rule, but have I taught you to obey the rule? Have I taught you to obey the rule because of Jesus' authority in your life? That's a whole other issue. And especially if we're going to go out and we're going to share. If Jim and I are expected to go share the message of the Jewish Messiah with people who aren't Jewish, guess what you can't use? The Old Testament. To a Jew, nobody cares. To a Gentile, nobody cares who Moses is. Nobody cares how cool Jeremiah was or Elijah or your favorite David and Goliath story. Guess what? Because all those Greeks out there, they didn't grow up learning that stuff so it doesn't really matter. We'll have to teach them that after we come to bring, after they learn about who Jesus was and what Jesus did. It's a very Jesus forward kind of movement we are as Christians. Hope everybody gets that. Verse 20, teach them to obey everything I have commanded you. And then there's a promise. So there's the command and here's the promise. And surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. So now here's another fun theological problem. Did Jesus stay on earth with his 11 apostles every single day after this moment? No he did not. You're right. Because the ascension happens in Acts chapter 1. But what does Jesus say in Acts chapter 1? If you were to turn there, you would hear him say, wait, don't go anywhere yet. I'm going to send you a gift from my father. What's the gift? The gift is the Holy Spirit. Ding, ding, ding. If I read verse 20 as the promise that God's power will always be with the Christian church to make disciples, is the promise hold true? Yes. Because Jesus in his earthly presence did ascend back to his heavenly throne. And he said, but it's good for me to go because I can't send you the gift from the father until I leave. So is Jesus' promise broken? No I don't think it is. I think if you would only interpret the I am to be the second member of the Trinity, which is an unfair limiting of the scope. Jesus says, go teach them to obey everything I have commanded and surely I am with you. The presence of God will be with you always to the very end of the age. Does the church of Jesus Christ still have access to the presence of God? Absolutely. That was the yes moment. In case you were wondering, yes. Why? Because Jesus was very clear, guys don't go anywhere yet. This is my, the new international bill version of Acts chapter 1. Jesus' speech, don't go anywhere yet. Stay in Jerusalem and wait for the gift of the father that I promised you would receive. Well now we understand that that's the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. So you and I sitting here today, we have access to something that at this moment when Jesus said these words, the 11 disciples did not have. They did not have the indwelling of the third member of the Trinity. And here's where I think a lot of Christians today miss the boat. If your Holy Trinity is God the Father, God the Son and God the Holy Bible, instead of God the Holy Spirit, you're missing the indwelling power of God leading you in doing the work of God. You know what I'm saying? Like that's important. So Jesus says here, I'm going to rewind, I'm going to read 19 and 20 together. Therefore, why? Therefore, because I have all authority, I am saying to you, go and make disciples of all nations, all people groups. Take all of those people groups and baptize them into the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, uniquely Christian. And verse 20, teach them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. Now, that's a massive powerful statement. Now that we see, and if you look back, what verse is it where they doubted? What verse was that? 17. What are they doubting? I don't think they're doubting, I don't think they're doubting God. And that's why I titled this message, The Call. I think they're doubting the call. I think they're doubting, God do you really? Yes. Come on Sean, that was it. I think they're doubting their ability to follow through on what God wants them to do. And I think that's a very real thing for you and I today. Remember, I told you in the beginning, how you view this passage totally affects how you interpret it. So now you've got to have a choice. You can ask, you can tell yourself that Jesus wrote this passage to the church as a whole. So pastor, that's why we tithe and we pay your salary. So catalysts can go make disciples through your abilities and I'm just going to pay you to do the work that you're supposed to do. There are a lot of churches that operate that way. I'm going to tell you, I think it's wrong. And I mean it's wrong for a couple of reasons. The number one reason is it's not biblical. There's nowhere in this passage that Jesus said, to pastors and elders, thou shalt make disciples. And it's nowhere there. He didn't say that. He said to you, each of you, individually. So if I were to go back and read this, then Jesus came to Megan and said, all authority on heaven and earth has been given to me. Therefore, Megan, go make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit and teach them to obey everything I have commanded you. And Kim, go make disciples of all nations, baptize and teach and I will be with you. Do you see the difference there? All of a sudden, man, that just got super personal, didn't it? And Tom, see I can get three of you with one word now. And Tom, go baptize, make disciples. And Jim, go baptize and make disciples. And Paul, go baptize and make disciples. Guess what? This is all of your job description, not just mine. It's everybody's job. And you know why it's everybody's job? Because he's the one who has all authority and he said so. If you do not like your job description, take it up with the boss. I'm just middle management. I don't really have any authority. I'm just here to tell you what the boss said and you get to decide whether you're going to obey or not. So this is why I've titled this series, I Am a Catalyst. It's the very first thing I thought when I was driving up here to meet with the search team. I wonder if the church sees catalyst as a noun or a verb. See, we say catalyst, community church. And we think about this as the name of our group. But that's not how I read it. I think about it as a community church full of people who know how to be catalysts. So that's why, say that with me. I am a catalyst. This is your job description. So look at the definition again. So Eric, now we're going to go to the end. What is a catalyst? A catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates change in others. So how do you take today's passage? So here's what I think. And I'm just going to take a wild guess here. I'm going to take a wild guess that there's at least one of you that's a little uncomfortable about having to go make disciples by yourself. You don't have to raise your hand. But I'm going to guess there's at least one person in the room that's like, huh. Now you know how they felt when they doubted Jesus. Because all of a sudden there's a job description in front of you that you're like, well, really? Like really? That's what I got to do? I don't know about you, but when I first came to this passage and realized that it was supposed to be my job to make disciples out of other people and I wasn't a pastor and I didn't have a Bible degree and I really didn't know what I was doing. But I wanted to obey the boss. I wanted to obey the king. Why? Because he's the one with all authority and not me. I had to realize, hmm, I'm not sure I can do this. So here is your three step process how to be a catalyst. Number one, recognize that doubt must be overcome. Every one of you, your job is to be a catalyst for the Savior's kingdom. You must recognize that doubt has to be overcome. That's verses 16 and 17. They saw him, they worshiped him and they doubted. So don't think for just one second because you're here and you're worshiping God that you might also not be suffering with doubt because they were. And if they were suffering with doubt after three years of walking with the actual Jesus, let's give ourselves a little bit of credit that we can come to church, we can believe and still have some doubts of whether we're going to be a good disciple maker or not. Number two, remember that Christ's authority and promise. So the instruction to make disciples is bookended by first the authority that Jesus is in charge of everything all the time. And two, Jesus is with me all the time. See how that works? I'm the, y'all are middle management. Your job is to accomplish the job but it's done in Jesus's authority with Jesus's presence. So every time you go out and try to be a catalyst for the Savior's kingdom, you don't do it alone. You do it in the authority of the King with the presence of the King or with the Spirit. And third, you're going to have to remove your comfort zone restrictions. That's verse 19. You're going to have to remove your comfort zone restrictions. Jim and I are going to have to get over the fact that it's not just our Messiah. It's everybody's messiah. You're going to have to get over our comfort zone. We're as a church, we're going to have to get over our comfort zone. We're going to have to let people come to church who dress differently than us. We're going to have to let people come to church who look differently than us. We're going to have to let people come to church who like different kinds of music than we like. We're going to have to let people come to church who speak different languages than we do. Why? nations not just the ones that look like you. In order to be a catalyst you must step outside of your comfort zone. There's no easy way to say that but once I understood or once I really feel like I keyed in on, wow the 12 Apostles doubted their ability to accomplish the mission. That means it's okay if I'm not sure that I'm ready to be able to make a disciple. So here's what I want you to do. I want you everybody to pull out your phone. I want you everybody to pull out your phone. There is on the little handout that you receive today there's a QR code that you can scan or you can go to catalyst302.com slash connect. I want everybody to use our digital connection card. If you're here this morning and you do not have a phone then there are cards right there in the chair backs in front of you that you can also use. Remember it is your responsibility to log your attendance so our church can help shepherd you. So when you pull out that connect card you're gonna say now if you're joining us online you can go to catalyst302.com slash connect and you can use the online connect card. It's a way for you to connect with us and know that you are still a part of our service. We love you and we appreciate you. Here's what I want you to do. On the connect card it says what's my next step going to be today. You put in your name see some of you are already filling out because my watch is blown up. So you put in your name you put in your email address. If you are not ready right now to walk out those doors and make disciples you cannot miss church for the next five weeks. And here's why. Over the next five weeks I'm going to give you a handmade recipe for making disciples. I'm gonna walk you through each step of what you need to know and how you can effectively make disciples in your world. Because here's the simple simple truth. Miss Nancy your smile looks great I'm gonna pick on you for a minute. Nancy knows people that I don't know. I'm pretty sure that's true right. Nancy's got friends that I don't have. Nancy has conversations with people I've never heard of. Doesn't Jesus want as many opportunities to make disciples as possible? Yeah so rather than just make sure that Nancy invites her friends to come to church we need to take the disciple making process through Nancy to every single people group. Through Jessie and through Kim and through myself and through Daniel everybody and then we start taking that disciple making process out. And if we do it right you will be a catalyst for the kingdom of God. And I cannot think of a greater calling. I cannot think of something better to do than to cause spiritual growth in others. So for the rest of this series that's what I'm gonna do. I'm going to lay up a five-step process so that you know exactly what it means to be a catalyst in someone else's life.