Amen, amen. God, we are just so thankful for your presence this morning. God, we are just so in awe of who you are every day, God. Please bless this service. Please bless us as we go out into the world and show the light that lives within us. We are so thankful for you. We love you. In Jesus' name, we'll all get to people who said amen. Amen. Why am I a catalyst? I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. Well good morning and welcome to catalyst. Thank you. Yes great. A few people are awake. Let's try one more time. Make sure everybody's awake. Good morning and welcome to catalyst. See now everybody's awake. It feels so much better. Good morning. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us today. Whether you are joining us on campus or you're joining us online, you are a part of the catalyst family. And we are so thankful that you are here. Here at catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change. So if you're here this morning, I want you to know that we love you. If you're watching this after the service, but you're still being a part of our worship, we love you. But we don't just love you. We want to help you come from where we met you to where God wants you to go. And one of the ways that we do that is by studying God's word together. So we're going to be continuing our teaching series this morning entitled I am a catalyst. Now each series that we put together has got a key thought. So I want you to understand the key thought because this is kind of kind of guide our journey through the text of the scriptures. The key thought is this. A catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates change in others. One of the things I love about the name of our church is it's a noun and a verb. Catalyst can be the name of our church and it can also be the mission to which we are called. So a catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates change in others. Now how do we accelerate change? I'm going to give you five steps that I believe are crucial to understanding Christian life change. Five steps to understanding Christian life change. Step number one, we talked about this two weeks or last week, surrender to Christ. The Christian life begins just like all journeys with a first step. That first step is coming to Jesus. Old school saints will know that as getting saved. So that's where the journey starts, but that's not where it ends. And I think sometimes we do ourselves a disservice when we talk about salvation, salvation, salvation. And we don't talk about what comes after that. What happens next. So the next step after we surrender to Christ is get baptized. That's what we're going to be talking about today. Why do we do this? Like it's weird. Is it like just a church bath? You know what I mean? Like is communion just a church snack? Or is there a reason for it? So today we're going to be talking about get baptized. After that, the third step, live by the Spirit. And I think this is one that we don't talk about enough. The ministry of the Holy Spirit. And you know, I'm kind of a simple person. I told the worship team this morning. I'm a focus on one thing at a time kind of guy. I do simple math. If Bill plus Jesus equals the same thing as Bill before Jesus. Well, then I mean, I'm not a math major, but that tells me Jesus equals zero. So we've got to learn to live differently. And the power that we do that is by the Holy Spirit. That'll be next week. Then after live by the Spirit, join in community. It's so important to know that every Christian is not an island. We don't just do this Christian thing out there by ourselves. We have to be connected because the elbow bones connected to the knee bone. And if we're only each one piece, everybody who works in the medical field goes, oh my goodness. He just said that. Right. We're all only one part of the body. We need each other. And then the final step is to partner in ministry. When we look at the book of Acts, we see people coming to Christ, getting baptized, living by the Holy Spirit, joining in community and partnering together so that more people can do that. So that's the purpose of I am a catalyst. First, you should be doing these five steps. And second, you should be helping the next person to come along the journey and do the five steps. So today we're going to talk about getting baptized. So I want to answer the question first and upfront. What is baptism? In case you've never heard that word before and it sounds super churchy, let me give you a simple, easy working definition. Baptism is washing with water as a symbol of spiritual cleansing. The water in the baptistry is water. It's not special. I don't have my own private Dumbledore who comes and waves his magic Holy Spirit wand over it. There's nothing special about the water. And as we're going to see, we're going to go through the Bible. There was nothing special about the water then either. So it's real, everyday water. In fact, in my career in ministry, I've had the opportunity to do baptisms. Of course, my wife and I used to live in Florida for many years. So especially in South Florida, you can't drive into a neighborhood where somebody didn't have a pool in the backyard because you can't get in the canals because you'll get baptized and run from gators at the same time. So if you want baptism and exercise, you go to the Florida canals. But I've done baptisms at the beach. I've done baptisms in a river, done baptisms in a pool, done baptisms in a church. I mean, the whole purpose is washing with water as a symbol of spiritual cleansing. So that's what it is. The second question I want to answer is what does it mean? What does baptism actually mean? Well, here's your answer. Christian baptism represents cleansing from sin, dedication to God, and identifying with Christ. So and I specifically said Christian baptism. Because as we go through the text today, I'm going to show you that baptism is not a new thing. Baptism existed in the Old Testament. Baptism existed way at the beginning of the Old Testament. And we need to not just ignore that truth and ignore that fact. So here's the working definition we're going to work with this morning. Christian baptism represents cleansing from sin, dedication to God, and identifying with Christ. Now in order to help you see, I didn't just come up with these, you know, I don't have like a pastor dictionary where you just come up with magic terms. I want to show you in the scriptures where we find what I say is the foundation for Christian baptism. So we're going to look at three baptisms in the Bible today. So if you have your Bibles, whether they're physical or digital, turn or tap with me to the book of Exodus. The book of Exodus is really easy to find. It's right after the book of Genesis. So second book of the Bible, we're going to go to Exodus chapter 30. Exodus chapter 30 and we're first going to look at verses 17 to 21. So this is Exodus chapter 30 verses 17 to 21. Give everybody a second. I love the sound of pages in church, right? Like I realize I'm younger and I love my digital stuff, but there is just something to be said for the sound of page turns in church. That tells you a church loves its words. So here we go. Exodus chapter 30. I'll start reading in verse 17. Then the Lord said to Moses, make a bronze basin with its bronze stands for washing and put it between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it. Aaron says to his son, Aaron and his sons are to wash their hands and feet with water from it. Verse 20, whenever they enter the tent of meeting, they shall wash with water so that they will not die. Also, when they approach the altar to minister by presenting a food offering to the Lord, they shall wash their hands and feet so they will not die. This is to be a lasting ordinance for Aaron and his descendants for generations to come. So let's start here first and see the beginnings of what I would say is baptism. Now the first question you're going to ask is, but Pastor Beal, that doesn't say baptism anywhere in Antioch. And you're right. It doesn't. But let's think back to what is the definition of baptism again. Baptism is washing with water as a symbol of spiritual cleansing. That is totally happening right here. So let me give you the back story of where we are in the overarching story of the Bible, and then we'll explain what this means. So the book of Genesis opens, God creates stuff. Then there's the flood. Then God calls a man named Abraham, and he calls a nation unto himself. Abraham has a son named Isaac. Isaac has a whole bunch of sons. The youngest one is named, actually it was Benjamin. That was a trick question. But Joseph is the one whose primary story takes up the back half of the book of Genesis. Then the children of Israel go into Egypt to escape a famine. Then Sapphero who did not know Joseph. That's the beginning of the book of Exodus. Then a guy named Moses shows up. God redeems his people from slavery in Egypt. And I would love to tell you that they lived happily ever after, but anybody who's read the Bible knows that that's not where the Moses story ends. They have some disobedience problems. They wander in the wilderness. And then eventually we get to this part here, where they are now appointing priests, putting the tabernacle together, and God is going to basically have an RV, and he's going to travel with his children. So the tabernacle is God's mobile home. Solomon will build the temple, which is God's permanent home. So all of you who have travel trailers, you're very godly, because God had a tabernacle. So here we see God through Moses appointing Aaron, who's the first high priest of the nation of Israel. And in verse 17 it says, then the Lord, and I don't know about you, but in the NIV, the word Lord is all capitalized. Does anybody else have all caps on that word Lord in the Bibles? Yep. So in case you're not sure, why did they do that? In our English translations, obviously you understand that the Bible wasn't written in English, right? So does anybody want to guess? What was the language that the book Exodus was originally written in? Ancient Hebrew. That's right. Ancient Hebrew has more than one name for God, but they have one very special name for God. God's covenant name that he uses with his people, and that name is Yahweh. So in your English Bible, when you see the word Lord in all capital letters, that is to cue you and I in that in the Hebrew they're using the special covenant name for God. What does that mean? That name was only to be used when God was talking to or about his chosen covenant people. So this is an instruction coming from the covenant-making God, that's what that Lord means, to Moses, who at this point is his commander in chief. Moses is the leader, he's the prophet, he's bringing commands from God. Then you get to verse 18 and he says, And he says, If you've ever heard of the bronze laver, L-A-V-E-R, that's what he just made right there. This is a big bronze bowl, and they specifically made it for the purpose of washing, for a ritual, spiritual washing. Again, is the water special? No. The purpose for the use of the water, that's what's special. He says, Place it, now look at where it's placed, between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it. Which means any time the priests needed to travel from the tent of meeting to the altar, which is the place where they come into God's presence, what did they need to do first? Wash. There is an establishment of coming into the presence of a holy God that has washing taking place first. So the end of verse 18, place it between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it. Baptism is traditionally done with water. I don't think that was the revelatory moment of the sermon, but I just wanted you to see that all the way back here in Exodus chapter 30, we're seeing this. So verse 19, Aaron and his sons. Now Aaron is the brother of Moses. They also had a sister who's pretty famous, anybody know who that is? Miriam, double star. So Miriam and Aaron and Moses are all leading the nation of Israel at this time. Moses is the big dog, he gets most of the credit, he gets most of the pages, but Aaron and the sister Miriam are both there. Aaron is the priest, Miriam I would argue is kind of like the worship leader character. In the end of the Exodus story Miriam is actually leading all of the women of God in praising God for how glorious he is in the redemption from Israel, or the redemption of Israel from Egypt. So Aaron is the first high priest and his sons, and this was supposed to be passed down from generation to generation in Aaron's line. They become the priests of Israel. So when it says Aaron and his sons, Moses is in effect saying the priests, the people who's responsible to minister before me will wash their hands and feet. Now this is interesting because this is different from our contemporary Christian baptism, it's only asking to wash hands and feet. Well this is where, you have to remember since the Bible was written in Hebrew not in English, we've got to ask ourselves what does washing hands and feet mean to an ancient Near East Hebrew audience? The hands and feet are the symbol of the whole person. Your feet represent where you go, your hands represent everything you do. So I want you to wash, this is God telling Moses, I want you to tell Aaron and his sons, everywhere they go and everything they do should be cleaned before me when they come in my presence. That's the establishment of this labor. So and look at it, every time Aaron and his sons are to wash hands and feet. Now let's also keep in mind they didn't have Nikes, right? Didn't have Nikes, they didn't even have any Birkenstocks. What is the primary footwear of the day? If you were wealthy, sandals. If not, barefoot. So how dirty do you think their feet got? Right? Walking around barefoot, dusty, rocky. Now let's say you have a set of sandals. They're going to be your basic thong sandals. They're not going to be like super protective, you know. Your feet are going to be out to the elements. This is something that they needed to learn. Everywhere you go, everything you do, remember that you bring that when you come and see me. So let's make sure you're clean, right? That's a big thing that he's saying to his servants. Look at number 20. Whenever they enter the tent of meeting, they shall wash with water so that they will not die. That seems pretty extreme, right? God, I already sanitized before I came to church. Do I really need to wash again? Again, remember that the washing is a physical washing, but it contains spiritual symbolism. He's trying to have the priests remember that they need to be spiritually clean and pure when they come before him. Because he who comes before God unclean is worthy of death. Think about the Moses story. When the burning bush happens, what does God say to Moses? Take off your sandals for what? The ground you are standing is holy, right? There's something about being in the presence of God which repudiates all evil, all sin, all icky stickies. That's the theological technical term for yucky, icky sticky, right? Whenever they enter, they shall do this. Also, when they approach the altar to minister. So now it's not just only coming into the presence of God. I also need you clean so that you can serve me correctly, right? There's a lot in this passage that we sometimes overlook. Because we're like, oh, well, that's the Old Testament. It's old. No, God's character revealed to the way he loves his children is dripping off the pages of the Old Testament. And we don't want to miss that. Whenever they minister by presenting a food offering to who? When you minister by presenting offerings to the Lord, you need to be clean. Everywhere you go and everything you do, you bring it with you when you come to minister in my name. Verse 21. They shall wash their hands and feet. There it is again. So they will not die. And then look at the end of verse 21. This is to be a lasting ordinance. This was not just for Aaron to do and then kind of like plow the road and then, okay, we're okay for everybody else. No, this was every time a priest in the line of Aaron comes to minister before the Lord. He needs to wash off wherever he's been, whatever he's done. It establishes that being in the presence of God and serving God requires spiritual cleansing. So that's the beginning of baptism in the Old Testament. Now understand that this particular passage we just read stands for the entire Old Testament. All the way through. So Exodus. Then you got what? You've got the judges, the Joshua period where they take the land. Then you've got judges. You've got the united monarchy. You've got the divided monarchy. Then God finally puts His children in time out during the Babylonian and Assyrian times. And then guess what? They get to come home and their time out is over. And then you got Ezra and Nehemiah. They reestablish, they build the city walls. They rebuild the second temple after the pagans destroyed Solomon's temple. Then how many years of silence between Malachi and Matthew? 400. For 400 years, God said nothing to His people. And then who's the first person? An angel shows up in the temple, speaks to a man by the name of Zechariah, and says, you're going to have a baby boy. And Zechariah doesn't believe and he's struck with muteness until John the Baptist is born. And John the Baptist, in my view, is the last of the Old Testament prophets. So this story here of this ritual washing to come in the presence of God stands as the baseline until we get to John the Baptist. So now turn with me to the beginning of the Gospel of John. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. Fourth book of the New Testament. We're going to go to John chapter 1 and look at verse 19. So John chapter 1, we're going to look at verse 19 and I'm going to read all the way to 28. So John 1, 19. So now we transition into the New Testament. That will last as a lasting ordinance for Aaron and his sons through the entire Old Testament until John the Baptist shows up. And I mean, his name is John the Baptist. So obviously we should look at what God was doing through his ministry. Here's John chapter 1 starting in verse 19. Now this was John's testimony. When the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem sent priests and Levites to ask him who he was. They did not fail to confess but confessed freely. I am not the Messiah. They asked him, then who are you? Are you Elijah? He said, I am not. Are you the prophet? He answered, no. Finally they said, who are you? Give us an answer to take back to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? John replied in the words of Isaiah the prophet. I am the voice of one calling in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord. Now the Pharisees who had been sent questioned him. Why then do you baptize if you are not the Messiah, not Elijah, and not the prophet? I baptize with water, John replied. But among you stands one you do not know. He is the one who comes after me. The straps of whose sandals I am not worthy. This all happened at Bethany on the other side of the Jordan where John was baptizing. So now into this scene with Aaron and his sons washing at the bronze laver. Now when you get to the temple period it was constructed, it was a little bit bigger. And it was actually big enough that they could climb in and physically get completely submerged like we do today. Then you get to John the Baptist here in the first century. And John is, I mean dude he is like the hillbilly prophet. So he is dressed like he eats locusts and wild honey. And he has just got some like, he is definitely not stylish. He definitely did not watch the first century version of Keeping Up With The Kardashians. He is just wearing stuff and he is out in the hillbilly wilderness and he is baptizing people. But wait a minute, baptism was for Aaron and his sons. Why is this random like hillbilly preacher guy out in the backwoods in the river? Why are you baptized? Like can you understand how to the first century priest this is a problem. Like who gave you the right to do that? Who said you could do that? That is basically what they are asking. Why are you doing that? Like it is very odd for this person. Now keep in mind we get the benefit of the whole story, right? So we can read the beginning of the New Testament where when Mary was pregnant with Jesus, she goes and visits her cousin Elizabeth and the Holy Spirit, bam, smacks John the Baptist in the womb and he comes out, woo, I am ready to do the will of God, right? We know that. But the Pharisees and the teachers of the religious law in this passage, they do not know that. John knows that. John knows he is operating under the power of the Spirit. John is fulfilling one of the outstanding prophecies from the Old Testament, which is there will be a forerunner for the Messiah. Somebody is going to come, thank you so much. Somebody is going to come and he is going to make a straight path for the Messiah to show up. That is John the Baptist. That is why I say John the Baptist is the last of the Old Testament prophets. He knows his job. My job is not to be the guy. My job is to prepare the way for the guy. And I got the Holy Spirit in me so I really do not need your permission to baptize in the Lord. I do not need your permission to baptize in the river because I have God's calling on my life to do so. John the Baptist breaks the mold. But look at what he says here, verse 19. Now this was John's testimony. Now testimony is a really churchy word, right? It literally means what it means in our English vocabulary. This was John's statement of legal evidence. I guess what a testimony is. If you get to go to court and give your testimony, you are testifying to that which you have seen or that which you understand. That is exactly what John is doing. But look who is questioning him. The Jewish leaders, priests and Levites. The same people who God gave baptism instructions to back in Exodus. They are now seeing John doing something new with baptism. And verse 20, John says, no, I am not the Messiah. Well why? Because I am pretty sure these guys know how to read the Old Testament. I am pretty sure they know. God has got a promised Messiah who the Old Testament is anticipating his arrival. So now there is this dude, you know, hillbilly preacher out there in the wilderness, baptizing in the river. They are like, well we better check this guy out. And I love the fact that it says, in verse 24, the Pharisees had been sent. So the high ranking guys in Jerusalem send the low ranking guys to go do the investigation. And figure out what is going on. We send the little people. We are going to stay up here in our big fancy, you know, Jesus corner offices at the temple. But we are going to send people. I need you to go figure out what this guy is doing. Why? Because he is creating a buzz. He is doing something very spiritual but not at the temple. See, I think when you and I think about faith today, we realize that the Holy Spirit is within us and we can go everywhere we want. We come to church so we can gather together. That is not the way things were in the first century. First century Judaism had one place that you could go to find the presence of God. And that was the temple in Jerusalem. That was God's house. That was the way it was built. Solomon built it in the middle of the Old Testament. The pagans destroyed it. The reason they call it Herod's temple in the New Testament is Herod rebuilds it. He expands it. He tries to buy favor with the Jews. It was a whole political move. I can tell you about it later. But it didn't go over really well because he was half Jewish and half committed to the Romans. Because the Romans kept him in power and kept him rich. So he expands the temple. This is where you go to meet God. You don't get to do God's stuff outside of this super holy building that by the way we're in charge of. Who gave you the right to do that? That's the spirit that's going on here. There's one place to meet God and where Hillbilly Dude wherever you're at, that ain't it. It's here. We know God's presence is here. Why? Because he gave us all these instructions. He told us we got to wash our hands and our feet so we don't die from walking into his presence. Who gives you the right to baptize out there in the country? This is wildly new to their understanding. We're just so used to it in our Christian understanding. We got to kind of take our glasses off sometimes and remember that in the first century, this is really rocking their boat. And so when they ask him, well then who the heck are you? Here's his reply in verse 23. He says, I am the voice of one calling in the wilderness. Make straight the way for the Lord. John knows his job. My job is to show up and get you all ready because you all ain't ready yet. Right? Y'all ain't ready for what God's got in store for you so I'm going to have to give you. I'm the warm up act. Right? I'm opening for the big show. I'm going to help you get ready. John knows what his job is. And then in verse 25, this is where we really see their confusion. Then why do you baptize if you're not the Messiah, not Elijah, or not the prophet? Do you notice that their question is all based on authority, not ministry? Their question is, who gave you the right to do this? Why are you doing God's stuff outside of God's place? And in a first century context, I can understand their confusion. What they don't understand that you and I get the benefit of reading is John's got an authority inside of him. That the spirit is leading him to do this ministry. And he's just doing what God has instructed him to do, fulfilling scripture. And Jesus is about to walk up onto the scene. So he says, why do you baptize if you're not Elijah, you're not the Messiah, you're not the prophet. And here's John's response. Y'all, I'm just baptizing with water. But he on the way. He's coming. And he, I'm not even worthy to tie his Nikes. That's how awesome he's going to be. And you know what's funny? You don't even know he's here yet. Right? John's saying, y'all, you're getting all freaked out about the fact that I don't have authority to baptize. I don't think you realize where the authority really lies. I don't think you realize who's among you that you haven't even noticed yet. Because you're so distracted with your churchy mentality and your temple focused. I decide where God is. You're missing what the spirit is doing out in the wilderness. Why? Because God's got something in store that's going to rock your world. And John knows it. And baptism is a part of that. He is the one who comes after me. The stripes of whose sandals. I'm not even worthy. You know the other thing I love about John the Baptist? And I don't mean this in a mean way. He knew his place. He knew he didn't need to be the Messiah because God's got one of those. My job is just to plow the field, man. My job is to rough... I honestly think if I could go back in time and hang out with somebody, I'd like to hang out with John the Baptist. His whole job was to tick people off and then get out of the way. That sounds amazing. Right? Let's just tick off all the religious people and they go, yeah, but I'm not him. Go deal with him. I'm out. You know? That sounds amazing. But John the Baptist's job was to break up all of that entrenched religiosity. And so he's baptizing people. And what he's really doing is laying the groundwork to say, listen, what God is going to do around you and through you and to you is new. Stop thinking of the old because he's here. He's among you. And he's doing something new. So that's John the Baptist baptism. Now let's look at one more. Fast forward to the book of Romans, chapter 6. So Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, find the book of Romans, chapter 6. While you're turning there, I'll give you the back story. The book of Romans was written by the apostle Paul to the church at Rome. The church at Rome is largely Gentile, not Jewish. Right around, I'm going to go with like AD 49. They have a problem in Rome. Now remember, Rome is the capital city of the Roman Empire, right? This is where the emperor lives. And they had a huge uproar right around. I want to say the Edict of Claudius is AD 49. So don't shoot me if I got that one wrong. I think it's AD 49. Edict of Claudius. Claudius throws all the Jews out of the Roman capital city. Because they're all up in arms about this new people who are saying the Christ is the Messiah. And I don't think the Christ is the Messiah. And people are robbing graves. And people are coming back from the dead. And I just don't like it. So the Romans are like, this is y'all's religious problem. Get out of my city. And the Romans throw all of the Jews out of the city of Rome. From AD 49 to AD 54, the only Christians who are in the city of Rome are Gentiles, not Jews. So that's my people, right? I'm Hawaiian by ethnicity. So I am a Gentile through and through. Praise God, he made a plan for Gentile salvation. Because that's my people. But from AD 49 to AD 54, there are only Gentile Christians in Rome. There are no Jewish Christians. So when you read the book of Romans, you need to understand. Paul is writing to a church that is fractured on racial division. Because after Emperor Claudius dies, this super kind wonderful man named Nero shows up. Now, all of you laugh. Before Nero burned Rome, he did one really cool thing. He let all the Jews come home. So for five years, the Roman church is totally Gentile, right? Totally just living by the spirit. We're just doing what God wants. And then all of a sudden, the Jews show back up. And they're like, but wait a minute, he was my Messiah first, right? That was the whole conversation Jim and I had to have last week. Why does our Messiah have to care about the Gentiles? So when you read the book of Romans, you should see this massive racial clash going on between Jews and Gentiles. So it's into that friction between the Jewish Christians coming back to Rome. Jewish Christians coming back into the city of Rome, be like, yo, where my leadership position at? We're like, bro, we replaced you like four years ago. Phil's doing a great job. How about you just hang back? And that's what happened. The Gentile Christians assumed all the leadership positions. And now you've got for five years, a church that's not built on Jewish thinking, not built on Jewish traditions. They're just built on Jesus. And then we see this conflict between Jews and Gentiles. And this is what Paul is writing about. And also keep in mind, Paul never visited the church at Rome. He's writing to people he never met. He's writing because he's on his way to Rome. If you study through Acts, you'll know he took several trips, right? We call those Paul's missionary journeys. He's writing to the people at Rome but he's never met them yet. So it's literally a Dear John kind of letter. Hey Roman people. And he's writing this whole letter trying to help them solve this problem. Here's Roman chapter 6 verses 1 through 4. What shall we say then? Shall we go on sinning so that grace may increase? He's talking about the fact that God's grace... And in fact, if you look at the end of chapter 5, remember when Paul wrote the letter, there are no breaks between chapter 5 and chapter 6? We added that stuff like hundreds of years later so that we could do what we're doing today and study the scriptures together. So the end of 5 rolls right into the beginning of 6. It ends with eternal life coming from Christ in God's grace. So then Roman 6 opens, hey man, do you think we should sin more so that we can magnify God's grace more? That's what he's trying to make sure. He's almost like asking a rhetorical question to make sure that the somewhat dull Christians at Rome don't think that we should sin more so that when we come to church we repent, we can feel God's grace more, right? God's grace loves sinners. I should go be a sinner so I can feel more grace. Just to make sure nobody thinks that's a good idea, he says in 6.1, we shall say, shall we go on sinning so that grace may increase? Verse 2, no. Don't do that. Those who have died to sin, how can we live any longer? Verse 3, or don't you know that all of us who were baptized into Christ, into Christ Jesus, were baptized into his death? Now, Paul is writing after the resurrection, after the ascension, after the Holy Spirit falls. He's writing the book of Romans, I'll go with like 58, 59, 60. So he's writing about 25 to 30 years after the cross. The church has already exploded. He's already doing all this stuff. But now the church has got some internal conflicts. And so he's going back to the theology. And that's why I would argue the whole purpose of the book of Romans is using theology to help people get along. Here's what we need to know about Jesus. And here's why you all need to treat each other better. You all should love people because Jesus did this. You all should stop being racist because Jesus did this. It's exactly what the book of Romans is. It's just a conflict between Jew and Gentile. Here he says, should we sin so that grace may abound? No, absolutely not. You know why? Because when you did that baptism thing, when you came to Jesus, it is literally a symbol of you identifying not just with Jesus' death, but with his resurrection. So now Paul's speaking specifically of Christian baptism. When we baptize today, you and I and every other Christian on the planet, we baptize under the surface of the water for one simple, well actually two simple reasons. Number one, that's the way Jesus did it. And I'm pretty sure we should follow his example. If Jesus did it, I'm cool with it. I guess it's a simple kind of base rule. But number two, Paul is very clear. When you are baptized into Christ, which is how we baptize, right? Baptized in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost. Splash! That's baptism in a nutshell. What are we doing? We're being baptized into Christ's death. His death, his burial, right? We move the body below the surface of the water and his resurrection. Look at four. We were therefore buried with him, buried underneath the surface, through baptism into death in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, we too may live a new life. Right. I mean that's what it's all about. When we come to Christ, when we are forgiven of our sins, the old us died and the new us lives. Well where do you think the old us died at? Now again, is the water magical? No. There's no Dumbledore. The water is the symbol. Now we've got to start stacking all these things together. The water is a symbol of spiritual cleansing to be in the presence of God. John the Baptist says this is going to prepare the way we are going to live. John the Baptist says this is going to prepare the way for the Messiah. Now Paul says, guess what? Christian baptism, this is where we die to our sin and we are resurrected to a new life in Christ. The Bible says we became a new creation. Baptism is the symbolic death to sin and resurrection to a new life that you and I celebrate as Christians. But this is the foundation of why. Because all the way back in Exodus 30, the very first priest, what did he say? Everywhere you go and everything you do, keep mindful that you bring that when you come to me. What does the New Testament say? All Christians are prophets and priests. So I can say to you, Christians who are here today or who are watching online today, everywhere you go and everything you do, you carry with you into the presence of Jesus. That's why baptism is so important. Now thankfully, because we are baptized into Christ one time, we all don't have to make it through the baptistry on the way to church. And we'd have to put it out in the lobby and all the chairs would be wet and it would like smell in the summertime and it'd be really weird. We only do baptism once. Why? Because once you die to sin, you don't die twice. There's once. I am died to sin. I am resurrected to the newness of life. Add in the Holy Spirit in Acts chapter 2, which we'll talk about next week. I'm indwelt by the Spirit. And now I have the power to live this new life different from my old life. Christian believers baptism is the act of identifying with Christ's death and resurrection, which cleanses us from all sin, convey our future resurrection, and call us to His service. That's what this is about. That's why baptism is important. That's why I love the fact that we celebrate baptism. Yes, it's a somber theological moment, but guess what? It is also a moment for hooping and hollering and praising and clapping and being excited. Because it's a new life, dying to sin, being resurrected to live for Jesus in a new direction. That's why we do baptism. That's why it's important. And that's why every week I ask you to pull out that Connect card and decide is today that day for you. So do me a favor. Everybody who's here in the room, pull out your cell phones. Pull out your cell phone. If you're watching this online, I want you to connect with us also. You can go to catalyst302.com slash connect. If you are here in our sanctuary today, you should have received a little handout when you walked in the door. You can scan the QR code to pull up the Connect card. Remember, here at Catalyst, it is your responsibility to let us know you came to church. The deacons and I, we work really hard on shepherding, but I'll be honest, I'm an ADHD kind of guy. And so I can't remember every single person's face every single week. That's why the Connect cards are so important for us. If you do not have your phone or your phone is non-functional currently, Tom, I see you, right? That's tough. There are paper Connect cards right there in the seat backs in front of you. I want everybody to pull out their Connect card and ask yourself. I want you to put in your name, your email address, and then what's your next step today? You'll notice that the 5 next steps on the card correspond perfectly to the 5 steps that I want every single Christian to take. Maybe your first step today is you need to surrender to Christ. You need to recognize that you're a sinner, that Jesus is God, Jesus is King, and Jesus is Savior, and He came to change your life. That can be your next step today. Maybe you've made that step, but you haven't actually gotten baptized. We got a baptism that we're about to get into to celebrate that newness of life. If that's your next step, you mark that on your card today. Maybe you've been baptized, but you're like, you know what, pastor? I don't really feel like Christian me is that much different from non-Christian me. Hello? I lived there for like 10 years. Nobody ever explained to me that Christian bill was supposed to be different than pre-Christian bill. Well, if Christian bill is the same as pre-Christian bill, then Jesus didn't do a whole lot. Or I'm not really learning how to obey the Spirit in my life. So maybe living by the Spirit needs to be your next step. Maybe you need to join a church family. I can tell you this. The man on an island can get saved by himself. The woman on an island can get saved by herself. You cannot be a healthy Christian disconnected from a church family. We need one another. Iron doesn't sharpen iron by itself, waving it in the air. What does the Bible say? Iron sharpens iron as one sharpens another. You got to be close enough to rub up against each other. A little bit of heat, a little bit of sparks. But at the end of the day, the knife gets sharper. We need one another. And then finally, we need to be about the work of Jesus. We need to be about doing the Holy Spirit's ministry. So while you've got your phone out or your Kinect card in place, I want you to go ahead and make your next step. If you're joining us online, you can totally go to catalyst302.com Kinect. While you're doing that, Paul's going to come up and he's going to help me remember the Bible. He's going to come up and he's going to help me remember what on God's green earth I'm supposed to say.