They are not Christian in any sense of the imagination They could be any of the other plethora of belief choices from atheism to paganism to polytheism To Buddhist to Hindu to Wicca like there's a lot of religious choices out there on the sushi menu of God, right? But it starts with answering the question why should I surrender to Christ? So I've got three reasons this morning why I believe people should surrender to Christ The first is very simple because Jesus is God Why should I surrender to Christ because Jesus is God take a look in your Bibles at John chapter 1 verses 1 & 2 so this morning's message is gonna look a little different than my previous ones because I'm starting out lay us a Systematic foundation and then we're gonna unpack a singular text, but I need to make a couple of points first So if you brought your Bibles whether they're physical or digital turn with me to John chapter 1 John is the fourth Gospel in the New Testament Matthew Mark Luke John there are a couple other John's at the end of the Bible That's not where I want you to go right now. So first second and third John They're all there, but I want you to go to the Gospels at the beginning of the New Testament The gospel of John was the fourth gospel to be written. It was written about I'm gonna go with a D 92 So about 60 years 62 years after the cross John also the author of first second third John and the book of Revelation And he is the highest Christology or the biggest value of Jesus's divinity that we have in the New Testament And here's what John says he says in the beginning Where else in the Bible do we see those three words? In Genesis 1 yes, and let me ask you this did John who was a first century Jew know what Genesis said Yes, he did because it's the beginning of the Hebrew Bible also So our he our Old Testament is the same as the Hebrew Bible those same books were read and worshiped as scripture in The first century so John I do not believe is making a mistake here I think he's making a very pointful statement that in the beginning was the word Now I want to I want to key in on this word word for a minute because John is making a very big statement But we might miss it because we don't speak Greek today, right? So we speak American English, right? We don't even speak the very proper English of our mics from across the pond. We speak American English, right? We don't really use the word logos or logos Anymore the way the Greeks did but when when John writes here in the beginning was the word This word in the original Greek was logos or logos and it literally means two things The first is it does mean what our English word word means which is something that is spoken or Speaking or message right you ever heard somebody say girl. I got a word for you, right? What does that mean? It doesn't mean I've got a literal word for you pretzel. There you go No, it means I have a message for you. I have something to tell you So we do use the word word in the sense of a message We also use the word word in the sense of a single word like word is a word, right? However, the Greeks had an understanding of the word word that we don't have in English the Greeks understood logos to be something greater than Mankind they understood the logos to be something a message a wisdom to aspire to something Greater than the Greek philosophers of their day. They sought wisdom. They sought Understanding they sought the logos so when John says here in the beginning was the Logos he's saying in the beginning was the word or the message now a message implies a Sender and a receiver right so in the beginning was the eternal pre-existent wisdom of God That's all wrapped up in this word right here that we probably wouldn't get and in fact and explaining it to my son as he's making His way through the Gospels. I have to explain that Jesus has like a bunch of different names He can be called Jesus. He can be called Christ. He can be called Messiah He can be called the Logos or the word well John is making a big statement here where he says in the beginning meaning in Genesis 1 1 the eternal existent Logos wisdom and message of God the Word was with God, but the word was also God now if you've ever had a Jehovah's Witness come to your door and you ask them to look at their Bible translation They are only allowed to use their Bible translation their Bible translation if you turn to this word Put a little carrot right here They put the word a right there in the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was a God That's in that that is but here's the funny thing if you break this sentence down into the Greek There's no indefinite article or definite article here It literally says Logos as they ask or a word was God So John is opening his gospel with a very powerful statement the Jesus Who walked the earth and talked and was crucified is? God Now to a first century Jew That's a big statement, right? The big that the Yahweh of the Old Testament the same God that threw Adam and Eve out of the garden that called Abraham to be a nation unto himself that parted the Red Sea with Moses that led Joshua into Canaan that called fire down for Elijah Big God big big G big God That's the log off But also we see the beginnings of the doctrine of the Trinity which you see in kind of a veiled way in Genesis that really becomes more revealed in the New Testament. We have God the Father we also see God the Son So my first reason that I give you for why should we surrender to Christ? Because he is God second thing. I want you to know about Jesus. Jesus is God Jesus is Savior now turn with me to the beginning of your New Testament in Matthew chapter 1 verse 21 Not only is Jesus God Jesus is also Savior in Matthew chapter 1 verse 21 this is an angelic message being delivered to Joseph about Mary and the Nativity or Christmas story So this is a divine message from day one from the get This is an angelic messenger delivering God's message ie the log off right a message of divine power To Joseph the carpenter the human stepfather if you will of Jesus She is Mary the mother of Jesus She will give birth to a son and you are to give him the name Jesus Because why he will save his people from their sins? Now this sounds totally normal for you and I who have grown up Post resurrection in the church age we understand that Jesus is Savior, but Joseph did not So let's rewind for a second. Let's take off our 21st century glasses let's put on our first century glasses What does Joseph the carpenter expect from the coming Jewish Messiah a? Warrior totally right Micah. Thank you He expects a warrior a soldier a king someone who is going to like David against Goliath Stand up to the imperial pagan sinful power and practices of the Roman Empire push them back and Re-establish the theocracy of the Davidic throne. That's what Joseph the carpenter is expecting from his Messiah So when an angel shows up, and I don't know about you I mean Ben have you ever had an angelic messenger show up at your home to talk to you about your kids? Okay, I just I just want to make sure it wasn't just me anybody else show of hands Angelic messenger shows up at home to tell you about your children kids don't lie your parents know what you're doing. Okay, so just watch Never happened to me if it did I don't know Kim. I think I think I'd listen you'm saying anybody else think you'd listen if an angel showed up to tell you about your unborn child So but what I want you to see about this verse is the angel is directly challenging a pre-existent Assumption on the part of Joseph the carpenter when he says she will give birth or she will give birth to a son That's the physical birth of the Christ child and you you will give him the name Jesus because Because Because Why is Jesus Jesus? Because he will save his people from their sins It does not say because he will save his people from the Romans It does not say he will save his people from the pagans He will save his people from the fill in the blank with anything other than the word sins. It doesn't say that There is a assumption on the part of the angelic messenger speaking to Joseph the carpenter That the child to be born will save God's people from their sins This is the purpose behind the incarnation the earthly ministry of Jesus the death the resurrection at the end of the day This is pretty much the purpose of all Christianity If you're not cool with the idea that Jesus is Savior, please put that on your card because we need to go to lunch This is the heart of Christianity. It's normative for us, but it was not normative for him on the day that he heard this message It was revelatory to him so we surrender to Christ because a Jesus is God because B Jesus is Savior and I have a third one because Jesus is King now. I need you to turn with me to the book of Ephesians Ephesians chapter 1 We're gonna look at 19 B to 21 that basically means the back half of verse 19 all the way to 21 So while you're turning to the book of Ephesians, remember when the word of God was written there were no chapters or verses How did they write? Inscriptions back in that day. They wrote them on scrolls. They did not have books with bindings and pages That's not how they worked. They had scrolls the Christian Church Hundreds of years after the documents were written. We went back We added chapters and verses so we could do just what we're doing now and turn to a very specific part of a letter And we can get to a specific text That power is the same as the mighty strength He exerted when he raised Christ from the dead and seated him at his right hand in heavenly realms Far above all rule and authority power and dominion in every name that is invoked not only in the present age But also in the one to come now here Let me give you a little bit because we're jumping right into a text here first that power Paul is referring to God's power actively working through Jesus during his earthly ministry So if you were to go and read this whole section Paul's talking about Jesus and the power that Jesus exemplified during his mission But you have to understand that that power did more than just work through Jesus in the sense of what Jesus did He raised God's power is Demonstrated raised right there right here. So how is God's power demonstrated through Christ first? It is that he raised Christ from the dead. That's the resurrection in case you're not aware Christianity rises and falls on the resurrection of Jesus. It is the singular most Important event in all of Christianity when we get to Easter Sunday We are going to look at that exact question is the resurrection of Jesus history Or is it just religious mythology? Is it something that we believe because we're religious people or is it something that actually happened on the pages of human history? And what difference does that make that's Easter? But here I need to understand Paul understands from the get that the power of God is Demonstrated in the resurrection of Jesus He then uses God the Father then uses the power that raised Christ from the dead and he seated him At his right hand so God the Father uses his sovereign God like creator power not only to raise Jesus from the dead But to place Jesus in a specific place at the right hand in the heavenly realms So we don't have like kings and kingdoms in America. We have elected officials, but if you had a king Where's the most honored place in the throne room? At the right side of the king. So what is Paul saying? He's saying God's power raised Jesus from the dead He said God's power places Jesus at the place of favor and honor in all the cosmos Which is at the right hand of God and God's power also puts him above all Rule right above all rule cue the Michael W Smith song, right? Above all powers above all kings. That's where Jesus is now Jesus is not only Resurrected from the dead. He is not only given the right hand of the Father He is also given all power all rule all authority all dominion Power and dominion and every name that is invoked and not only in the present age But also the one to come this means now sum all this up Jesus is king from now to the end of eternity But this is why right I could have just said that Jesus is king from now to the end of eternity and moving on This is why because God's power not only raised Jesus from the dead through the resurrection He places Jesus at the right hand and then he places within him or he vests in him all of God's authority to rule over creation men who does that sound like Those of you who are here for the last two men's day the Wednesday night men's fraternity God creates a man He then places all authority and regency in him. Who is this a type of? Adam thank you somebody Where Adam failed Christ succeeded Right, so that's why Jesus is referred to as the second Adam what I want you to see here is when we are presenting the gospel to people I Think and I'm not saying all of us, but I think some of us Make it harder than it needs to be. I Don't think we need to over burden the truth of the gospel With the theology that supports it and here's what I mean in one school of evangelism in order to witness to someone in order to need a savior You must first understand that you need saving right So if we then say well the only way I can present Jesus to you is he is the Savior who saves you from your sins and the unbeliever goes But I don't believe in your Bible so I'm not a sinner Well, we just cut the legs out from underneath of that entire evangelistic approach So now what I need to do is I need to go back and I knew established that Adam and Eve were Historical people and that there's a real thing called original or inherited sin and then in the garden came the penalty of death You see how much theology you're placing before it's like putting the cart way before the horse It's like the cart three miles ahead of the course. I need you to understand something. I asked some a question The thief on the cross so those of you who grew up in church think Easter, right? Jesus is crucified between two robbers two thieves one of them heckles Jesus and is mad The other says Lord, please remember me when you come into your kingdom Did Jesus stop being crucified at that moment and say okay, mr. Thief first. Do you understand the concept of original sin? Do you understand that you're a sinner? Do you understand that a Passover is the lamb being shed full of blood? Do you understand that Adam was the federal head of Christ and now that I am here? Jesus did not stop to teach theology Sometimes we make the gospel more complicated than it needs to be now, please don't misunderstand Am I saying that any of those theological principles is not true? No, they're all super true Adam was created as the federal head of humanity and then when he fell guess what happened sin came Into the world and guess who fixes that sin problem Jesus, but we don't need to make people understand everything in order for them to come to Jesus Jesus did not stop and give the thief on the cross a theology lesson He said I accept your faith where it's at right love to life change I accept your faith where it's at now come with me and I'll teach you everything else. You need to know Jesus when he called Peter James and John said Pete yo, let me lose. Let me use that boat for a hot second Let me teach. Okay, great. Now go let down your nets for a catch He grabbed Peter's attention where he was at. Did Jesus understand all the theology before he started following Jesus? He learned from Jesus for three years and then still got it wrong Don't forget none of the male Apostles or disciples were there on Easter Sunday morning who discovered the empty tomb? the women The women discovered the empty tomb because they went to go minister, but here's the funny thing Why did the women go to the tomb? It wasn't because they knew it was empty It was because they were expecting a dead body of Jesus that they wanted to put spices on So even the women got it wrong. Yes, they're the first witnesses, but they got it wrong So this is why I present to you Why should we have people surrender to Christ because he's God Because he's Savior and because he's King This gives me three different approaches to help someone understand who Jesus is and none of them really require a whole lot of extra theology First I don't have to go into original sin. I just point to Matthew and say, okay But Jesus's purpose for coming was to save people from their sins You can't just because the the unbeliever says well, I don't believe in your Bible. So therefore Jesus isn't real The apologist in me goes. Oh, yeah, let's do this, right? The apologist in me goes, okay, let's put the entire Bible aside Let's talk about Jesus from a historical perspective, which you guys will learn on Easter Sunday Yeah, I can take the entire Bible away and still present Jesus because guess what? You don't have to accept every single theological principle to love Jesus and be saved Theology is for the in-house conversation for this right when we get together and we learn about God's Word Don't make coming to Jesus more complicated than it needs to be why do we surrender to Jesus because he's God because he's King and because he's Savior and That can stand on its own and then as people learn more. Yes. Why is he a Savior? Well, because he came to save sinners. Well, then the next real question is why am I a sinner? See, that's a different story instead of getting them to accept the reality So like the old-school fire and brimstone preachers they force you to accept the Eternality of your sin before accepting that there was a Savior. Why can't I just say there's a Savior? Well, what is he saving me from and then we can talk about sin, right? It's a Jesus first mentality I think that's a great way to start talking about Jesus and when we get to Easter I'll give you everything you need to know about the historical argument for the resurrection and you can completely sideline Well, I think the New Testament has errors and it can't be trusted fine move the New Testament out of the way Here's let's talk about Jesus Jesus stands on his own as God as King is Savior Even if you try to move the entire New Testament out of the way Even if you did not accept the truth of the Old Testament I just finished reading a book this week an atheist arguing for the historical reality of who Jesus was You know why because it's so historically true that every single major scholar whether they're believers or not Will tell you Jesus was a real person now we may not all come to the same conclusion about who he was and where he lived And what he did right? I just think that when somebody comes back from the dead after they said they were gonna come back from the dead that it's a pretty Good reason we should trust what they say So three reasons why we surrender to Christ is because he's God because he's King because he's Savior now. What does it mean? To surrender to Christ. What does it mean to surrender to Christ? Here's where we got to unpack a text Let's go to Acts chapter 3 and look at verse 19 to 21 Acts chapter 3 while you're turning there. Let me bring you up in this story So the Gospels give us the birth the earthly ministry the crucifixion resurrection of Jesus The Gospels stop at the resurrection Right pretty much. That's them. That's the highlight of the Gospels is the resurrection now at the end of Matthew and the first chapter of Acts We have a short bit of teaching of Jesus in his resurrected form Then Jesus ascends in Acts chapter 1 Acts chapter 2 the Holy Spirit descends the Christian church that you and I are a part of today is born and Here in Acts chapter 3 verse 19 Peter and John have gone to the temple in Jerusalem now filled with the Holy Spirit and They heal somebody who was lame at the gate Somebody who was there at the gate they heal this person entirely and completely and of course I mean, I don't know about you But if we healed somebody right here up front and you were all witnesses to a blind person getting their sight or a lame person Being fully healed. I don't know about you, but I think you would have to listen to what that missionary was gonna tell you So Peter begins to preach as Peter preaches They are cut to the heart and they said what do we need to do? And this is Peter's response Acts chapter 3 verses 19 to 21 repent then and turn to God stop I Need to really hit these two points so that we don't miss it repent then and turn to God This is a two-step process Repentance is a step and turning to God is a second step now arguably you could tell me well You know bill they're they're kind of like the same step because it's like the head and tail of a coin Like I've heard that analogy and it's good, but let me explain to you first what repentance is Repentance is not feeling bad about your sin That's remorse. That's an emotional response to I am an icky person That's not repentance repentance involves The turning away or the active turning away from something if you look at sin and say oh That's so horrible. Give me more That's not repentant You're remorseful in the sense of I feel bad about that sin, but nowhere in that statement of I feel bad Does it say I'm going to stop doing it? repentance requires Turning away from sin now where some people will say that you can turn away from sin and turn to Christ in one action That is repentance and faith. I totally agree however You can turn away from sin and not turn to Christ And that's where I think sometimes we miss it you can turn away from sin and turn to Buddha You can turn away from sin and turn to Wicca you can turn away from sin and turn to Christian life coaches No, if it's not turn away from sin and turn toward Christ It's not Christianity if you are turning away from sin, but placing your hope in anything else other than the resurrected Jesus It's not Christianity. It could be life coaching. It could be new age thinking it could be crystals. It could be Wicca It could be polytheism it could be atheism you could pick your pick But if it's turning away if it does not include turning away from sin and turning toward Jesus Which was his message because keep in mind where is Peter when he preaches a sermon? He is standing in the Jewish temple in Jerusalem these people already believe in God the same God that we do They did not accept Jesus as his messenger and his son, but they already believe in God So you can't just be turning away from sin and turning to whatever you pick Peter was very clear repent turn away and turn to God so that your sins may be wiped out and here What I'm gonna say might be a little offensive if it is just put your seatbelt on and don't leave yet I promise I'm not trying to be offensive. I think At least and I'll just speak from my experience so I am 42 years old I grew up in the Christian Church I've gone to church my whole life I grew up in the nursery and in pre-k and Sitting on the pew at the back bench of the Baptist Church my family went to next to my grandma Who would smack me in the back of the head if I was being too, you know Too restless during the pastor's really long sermon, right? So that was my that's my history. I grew up here. I Think we have under sold The gospel by making it only about and that's why I specifically picked this text I think we've under sold the gospel when we say the only reason to come to Jesus is so that your sins may be Wiped out Does that is that a true story when we come to Jesus are our sin wiped out? Yeah, it's totally true But it's not the rest of the story It's the beginning of the story But I want you to see here this is Acts chapter 3 the Holy Spirit fell in the last chapter this is the very beginning of the Christian Church and Peter is saying more than just Your sins will be wiped out. What does he say that your sins may be wiped out? That's one that times of refreshing may come from the Lord Where is that in the gospel presentation? Times of refreshing now those of you came to the how to study your Bible class, right? By the way got some really good feedback. We need to do that again. Remember that there's a difference between interpretation and application, right? So interpretation is the step of how did the original audience understand what the original author was saying and then the application step is What does it mean to us? Here's why that step is important When you and I as 2022 Christians read times of refreshing, what do we immediately jump to? The Holy Spirit our immediate assumption is oh, yeah The reason I need to come to Jesus is because because my sins are gonna be wiped out and then I get to be indwelt with the Holy Spirit Is that the way the first century Jewish audience would have understand that statement? No, it's not So let me give you the correct interpretation and then I'll come back to the application. What is this times of refreshing? Times of refreshing remember what is the first century Jewish expectation? They want their freedom back they want their people back What was God's outstanding promise from the Old Testament that my people are gonna have everything? I promise them right when we get to talking about Revelation God made some very specific promises to the Jewish people that you're gonna be my people I'm gonna be your God those who bless you will I will bless those who bless you. I will curse those who curse you I'm gonna give you the land from the north to the south to the east to the west You will have a forever king from the line of David. There are some outstanding promises and guess what? I don't know about you, but I'm pretty sure you're gonna have a king from the line of David I'm pretty sure if anybody can give an IOU, it's the creator of the cosmos If God's IOU you're pretty well good for it But there are some outstanding promises and this is one of them the first century Jewish reading of times of refreshing is God Restoring his promises now does that apply to us? It's probably a much longer theological conversation than I can have in the next 30 seconds But what I'll say is this as Christians we are grafted into the promises of God even if we don't have the promises of God We are grafted into the promises of God even if we are not the direct original recipients So Paul said the wild olive branch is grafted into the native root So the times of refreshing are the coming messianic kingdom where Jesus is gonna make it all better Do we get to be a part of that? Heck? Yeah, we do praise Jesus for that, right? My ancestors are Hawaiian, right? So I am pagan polytheistic in my ancestry. We were on the Hawaiian Islands sushi Coconut bikinis, that's my heritage right? Those are my people boy. Those are my people boy and pineapples. Let's do it That's my heritage praise Jesus He thought to give a Savior for the rest of us pagans and not just the Jews, right? Praise Jesus I get be grafted into these times of refreshing. What's the Promissary notes the IOU so to speak the indwelling of the Holy Spirit So when we come back to the application step can this time of refreshing for you and me today in the church age Can it refer to the Holy Spirit? It totally does but don't forget that the Holy Spirit is just the promissory note for what's coming later God's still not done yet times of refreshing may come and That he may send the Messiah who has been appointed for you Even Jesus heaven must receive him until the time he comes from God to restore everything as he promised long ago through his holy prophets So here's the problem. I Believe that if we understand salvation as only not going to hell that we miss the other two-thirds of God's restorative plan Jesus cannot just be my get out of hell free card, right? You play Monopoly You got the get out of jail free card I love it when I get that one because once you get to the end of the game and you want to be in jail So you can just take everybody else's money to get out of jail free cards awesome Jesus has to be more than a get out of hell free card Because you know why because a get out of hell free card doesn't change the way I live Monday to Saturday It changes my eternal destination, but not my tomorrow when you understand that Jesus is saying that G or Paul Come on Bill. Peter is preaching So Peter is saying that Jesus is more than just to get out of hell keep free a free card He is the key to a refreshed life and a restored future That's the big picture of Jesus that changes my today and my tomorrow and my next week and my next month and my next year This is the big promise of the story of Jesus I don't just surrender to Jesus so that I spend eternity in non-smoking instead of smoking, right? I come to Jesus because God's got a bigger plan and I want to be a part of that bigger plan Part of that plan is to save me from an eternity separated from his love. That's totally true I'm not taking away that truth, but if you don't catch the fact that there are times of refreshing Those of you who are Christians and who have been indwelt by the spirit you can attest to the truth of the fact That man sometimes the Holy Spirit is the only one holding on to the ledge because I am done gone Right. My nerves are shot. My patience is shot Church people suck. I mean it's hard The Holy Spirit holds on because I can't hold on anymore Right. There's some of you who are nodding some of you get it Those of you who don't just put it on your card live by the spirit. We'll talk about it There's more to being a Christian Than being saved from just being saved from hell There's more to the victorious Christian life being a part of a church family Than knowing we're just not gonna go to hell when hell comes there's living daily refreshed by the spirit and Knowing I'm a part of God's future plan. God has a plan For the future of his kingdom that you and I get to be a part of so let's round this out What does this mean first question? Why do we surrender to Christ easy answer because? Jesus is God Savior and King how do we surrender to Christ by turning away from sin and committing to Jesus? Two-step process just because you're turning away from sin doesn't mean you're you could be committing to Muhammad or Buddha or Krishna or anything else? It's got to be turn away from sin and commit to Jesus and then what happens when we surrender to Christ three things one Our sins are forgiven two times of refreshing come and three we've become a part of God's future plan Notice I explained all of that without having to start with original sin and Adam and Eve and all that kind of stuff This I think is a much easier way to present the gospel to somebody Why because Jesus is God Savior and King it gives you three different ways to talk about who Jesus is what happens It's a two-step man We turn away from that ick that we don't want and we accept that Jesus is gonna save us when we're not enough And then what happens it's not just get it to hell it is my sins are forgiven praise God well Why am I a sinner well that's a totally different conversation That's just like the idea of recognizing whether you are a sinner or not is not up to you When you go to the bank and there are zero dollars in your account Whether you think you're broke or not is not the issue The truth of the matter is there are zero dollars in your bank account you cannot go to the bet to the bank teller And say I would like my five million dollars, please and the bank teller says sir you have five dollars not five million No, no, no, I truly feel my truth on the inside is that I am worth five million dollars And so I'd like you to validate my truth and give me five million dollars There's no bank teller in the world that's gonna do that so your perception of reality is not always reality There is an underlying truth that I am a sinner in need of a Savior whether you recognize it yet Or not just like the bank teller the bank teller knows what's in your account Whether you know it yet or not the bank tellers got it on the screen God is the cosmic eternal bank teller He's pretty sure where our accounts are at some of our accounts are still negative And that's why we need Jesus to bring us back to times of refreshing I Can't tell you how many Christians are under taught the ministry of the Holy Spirit I'm not trying to take our church and turn us into a Pentecostal church guess what the same Holy Spirit That's in the Pentecostal church is in the Catholic Church is in the Episcopal Church is in the Methodist Church is in the Baptist Church and is in the non-denominational Church why because he's a member of the Trinity and he's biblical Don't mistake God the Father God the Son and God the Holy Spirit for God the Father God the Son and God the Holy Bible The Bible does not replace the active ministry of the Holy Spirit whether you are No matter which denomination you come from the Bible teaches the Holy Spirit has a ministry for the church and we need to obey that So we need to tell people listen you nobody expects you to live the Christian life in and of your own strength Because none of us are that good That's when you get back to pharisee legalism and self-righteousness and all that other jazz We get the benefit of being refreshed by the Spirit and finally we have the responsibility To be a part of God's future plan when you become a Christian, and here's the other thing. We don't tell people enough You just signed up for the army Congratulations here's your conscription notice The elders are your commanding officers the deacons are the the lieutenants and the other things in there now It's time to go to boot camp Relearn how to live and how we operate and get on mission It's not time to sit back and think you're on a cruise ship Where the deacons and the elders and the leaders are here to serve you your umbrella drinks and bring your umbrellas We're on a battleship not a cruise ship and I know that's a big mentality shift for some people when it comes to church When I walk into this building as beautiful as it is This is a battleship We've been placed in a hostile culture That's not ready for all the truth that we have Which is why we got to load the guns and have them deep and have them ready with truth with love with acceptance But our acceptance doesn't mean we back down from truth That's why I really love the phrase love people to life change you guys had that before I got here and man it is so good I'm gonna love you accept you where you're at, but life change means I'm not backing down from the truth of God's Word I can love you and love the Word of God at the same time and when you come in conflict with the Word of God That's not my love that's wrong It's you're not accepting the truth that the bank teller knows more about your account than you do So this is how I'm hoping that you will be able to be comfortable sharing why we surrender to Christ with everybody So do me a favor and please take out your cell phone if you're watching us online you can go to catalyst Can Here in the room you've got two choices Number one you can scan the code that was on the handout that our ushers gave you they give you a little it's got A little square code on it if you scan that code with your phone It's gonna open the digital version of the connect card if you're hearing you do not have your phone this morning There are paper connect cards right in the seat backs in front of you that if you just want to take one of those paper Cards and fill it out. There's two reasons. I need you to do this The first is that it is your responsibility to let us know that you came to church today It cannot be myself and the deacons Responsibility to remember every single face that came to church every Sunday It also can't be our responsibility to know who's joining us online today Like the only reason I know my sister-in-law is watching from Alabama is she texted me this morning She said you know that she talked to me. I was like, oh, that's so cool We have somebody joining our church all the way from down in Alabama. That's awesome. I Know there are more people who join us online So that's why we have the digital card and we also have the physical card So I need you to go to that card you put in your name you put in your email Decide what your next step is I also want you to see that the bottom of the card has a place for you to talk to me if you have A question, you know something I said today You really need a follow-up It was confusing if you want to make a commitment if you have a request for an appointment for counseling all that stuff is important So while you're finishing that I'm gonna ask pastor Paul to come up here We're gonna do our announcements and then we're gonna move to taking our offering this morning