Well good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us in worship today. I'm the pastor here at Catalyst. It's my privilege to share with you from the word of God today. While I finish getting set up, here at Catalyst we're about one thing. Forgive the term, we're religious about this one thing and that is loving people to life change. We want to love people to life change. Life change is however is not just a singular destination, but it's a daily journey. So if you are here and you're a part of our service today, whether you're worshiping with us on campus or you've joined us as part of our online community, I want you to know that this church loves you. We are super thankful that you're here worshiping with us, but I love you enough to tell you the truth. I hope that you leave different than you arrived. I hope maybe you learn something new or perhaps the Holy Spirit challenges you in a new way because church should be transformative. We should love people to the point that their lives change. Now we're going to be continuing our series entitled In The Beginning and if this is your first time joining us, this sermon is going to be a little different than what you're used to. So I've tried something new with this sermon series and this is a morning where you are allowed to ask questions. So yes I have a sermon text, in fact here I'll give you the title and the text for this morning's message. We're going to be looking at the consequences of sin from Genesis chapter 3 verses 14 through 25. If you look at the handout that the ushers gave you when you walked in this morning, there's a highlighted line there that says to ask questions and there's a little cool code. If you scan that with your smartphone, it'll open up a little page on your phone. You can type in your question. My wife and Ms. Donna, our secretary in the back, they're going to receive all of your questions. They're going to put them right here on my iPad. So as we go through the sermon text today, if I come across something and you're like, you know what? I don't get fill in the blank. You can absolutely use your phone, ask your questions and we'll incorporate those questions into our sermon this morning. So let me give you the key thought that's going to meld all of these messages together. The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for us to understand God's relationship to humanity. The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for you and I to understand how we as human creatures, human beings relate to our divine creator. Now you'll notice on the back of your handout, I gave you just a simple outline of how to understand Genesis chapters 1, 2 and 3, how they go together. Genesis chapter 1 is the origin of everything. This is the beginning of all time, space, matter and energy. This is the Irithang moment, theological term Irithang. It was right there. It was made in chapter 1. But chapter 1 teaches us that God created. Then chapter 2 comes back and teaches us something different about creation. It teaches us the how and the why God created. And we saw that in chapter 2 the introduction of the covenant name of God, Jehovah, makes the difference between chapter 1 and chapter 2. And then chapter 3 teaches us what happened to all that God created. Chapters 1 and 2, creation is perfect. And then in chapter 3 we have the fall. We have sin enter our world. And chapter 3 teaches us what happened to creation. So let's turn together to Genesis chapter 3. And the first thing I want to do is just read verses 14 through 25. So Genesis 3, I'm going to start in verse 14 and then we're going to read to verse 25. Then we're going to go back. We're going to go back at verse by verse, look at it. And then we're also going to tackle some questions. So this is Genesis chapter 3 starting in verse 14. So the Lord God said to the serpent, because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and all wild animals. You will crawl on your belly and you will eat dust all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman between your offspring and hers. He will crush your head and you will strike his heel. 16, to the woman he said, I will make your pains and childbearing very severe. With painful labor you will give birth to children. Your desire will be for your husband and he will rule over you. 17, to Adam he said, because you listened to your wife and ate the fruit from the tree which I commanded you, you must not eat from it. Cursed is the ground because of you. Through painful toil you will eat food from it all the days of your life. It will produce thorns and thistles for you and you will eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your brow you will eat your food until you return to the ground since from it you were taken. For dust you are and dust you will return. Verse 20, Adam named his wife Eve because she would become the mother of all the living. The Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and his wife and clothed them. And the Lord God said, the man has now become like one of us, knowing good and evil. He must not be allowed to reach out his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat and live forever. So the Lord God banished him from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he had been taken. Verse 24, after he drove the man out he placed on the east side of the Garden of Eden cherubim and a flaming sword flashing back and forth to guard the way to the tree of life. And this is the end of Genesis chapter 3. Now remember from last week we broke up Genesis chapter 3 into two halves because I wanted you to see God's initial reaction to human sin and the shared consequences that Adam and Eve both had. They both hid from God. They both had their marital relationship changed by having to cover themselves and having their intimacy broken. However today we're going to go through and we're going to look at the individual or the specific consequences. There are consequences that Eve had that Adam was not given and likewise there are consequences given to Adam that Eve was not given. But there's one thing I want you to see before that. If you look at the whole section, if you read all of Genesis chapter 3 in one sitting you're going to notice something very peculiar and I think it's important. When God questions Adam and Eve in the beginning of the chapter, what we looked at last week, notice the order in which he questions. He questions Adam who mentions Eve. He then questions Eve who mentions the serpent. So we have Adam, Eve, serpent. But in our section today, did you notice that God does the exact opposite? He starts at the serpent, then speaks to Eve, then speaks to Adam. That is a literary device. It's helping us see a main point. It's helping us see not only where the point of sin happened, the serpent's words, but also where the responsibility lies at the higher levels. Adam, Eve, serpent, Eve, Adam. It's kind of like a V, like bouncing a ball. So I want you to see that reverse order because I think it's really important. So again, make sure you've got your phones handy, make sure you're ready for your questions. There's probably going to be a few. Today's going to be an interesting day. We'll see if I have a job when we're done. Alright, so let's do this together. Verse 14, so the Lord God said to the serpent, notice if you see those capital L-O-R-D, right? This word right here, when it's all capitalized like this, it's reminding you that since we're not reading in Hebrew, this is Jehovah, Yahweh, the covenant name for God. Now remember, who's receiving the book of Genesis? Who's the human author of the book of Genesis? Moses is. And when is he receiving the text from God? After what major biblical event? After the Exodus. Moses didn't live after the flood. Well, he lived way after the flood, right? He's receiving this after the Exodus from Egypt, right? So if you quick, early biblical history, God creates stuff, stuff goes bad. Flood stuff goes bad. God picks a dude named Abraham, starts a nation. Abraham's people move into Egypt. They grow, then they come out of Egypt and cue the prince of Egypt and Charlton Heston, Ten Commandments, beautiful movies. God pulls everybody out of the Egyptian incubator. It's during that time where God has now pulled all of his people out of the Egyptian incubator, rescued them from the horrible slavery and the infanticide that was going on that this is given. Here we see the Lord God, the same God that makes his covenant to his people and keeps his promises, says to the serpent, because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock, all wild animals. You will crawl on your belly. You will eat dust all the days of your life. So let me answer your first question. Is this a real physical serpent? Yes. Yes, the serpent is a real animal. Is there a spiritual power behind the animal that's doing the talking and the tempting? Yes. There are very real things called fallen angels. This is also not the only time in scripture that fallen angels have inhabited animal carcasses, animal bodies. If you go all the way to the New Testament, when Jesus talks to the Gadarean demoniac and he's filled with a legion full of demons, the demons say don't send us to the abyss. Let us go into the pigs. So we have a second attestation in scripture that there is such a thing as a fallen angel entering into an animal creature, not just a human creature. So the serpent is a real serpent. But the power behind the serpent is Satan, Lucifer, the fallen archangel, the enemy. So there's two creatures here. So when he says to the serpent, we have to look at what is he saying to the serpent. He's saying here, because you have done this, cursed. I also need you to long press highlight, circle, do something. The word cursed in this chapter is going to be very important. He says cursed are you above all livestock. You will crawl on your belly. You will eat dust all the days of your life. Now, there is a, now I'm going to give you, we're going to start to get into like some optional territory here, right? Right? So this is the a la carte theology menu. Is it possible that in Eden, pre-fall, serpents actually had legs and feet and did not crawl? That is possible. Is it guaranteed that that is what this verse is saying? No. I can't tell you beyond a shadow of a doubt, absolutely, the serpent in the garden had legs and could walk. What I can tell you is it's one of two things. When he says here, because you have done this, cursing you above all livestock, all wild animals, you will crawl on your belly. This right here, crawl on your belly, means one of two things. Either A, the serpent was more like a lizard and actually had feet, which we do have reptiles who have feet, right? That's a thing. We can see those today. So it is possible that this crawl on your belly, the serpent that Lucifer inhabited had legs and then lost them. However, it's also possible since who's actually writing this down? Moses. And Moses is writing this way after the fall. And Moses just came from what major Middle Eastern country? Egypt. And what's an animal that shows up a lot in Egyptian mythology that doesn't have any legs? Snakes. Do you think Moses understood what a snake was? Yeah, pretty darn sure. In fact, I'm positive because when he went into Egypt with his staff in order to do battle, so to speak, with the ancient wizards of Egypt, what did he do? God said throw down your staff and it became a snake. So does Moses know that what a snake is a snake? Yeah, he totally does. So would Moses, when he wrote this, automatically assume that snakes had feet? I don't think so. I'm going to tell you it's optional. You can read this essay, oh well, the pre-fall, the serpent had legs. The punishment is it now became the crawly little blah blah blah kind of snake that we have today. Or it's also totally possible that because Moses lives in a time where he knows what snakes really are, this is the reason why snakes crawl. Does that make sense to you? So that's one of the questions I figured would come up. But the other thing I need you to understand is look at what the snake eats. Now, does a snake literally eat dust? No. But have you ever heard somebody behind the wheel of a motorcycle or a really fast car say eat dust? They can use it in a figurative sense, right? So if snakes crawl on the ground, they live their lives amidst the dust of the ground. What other creature in this chapter comes from the dust of the ground? Humanity. Something that's in this verse that you would be likely to miss is right here. Eat dust. The curse on the serpent is to live the rest of its life eating the fallen nature of man because man becomes dust. So the judgment here doesn't have to be the losing of feet, although I'll give it to you. There are some scholars who think that's what it is. But what nobody debates is this eat dust over here. The snake, the serpent, having drawn man into sin and now to return to dust, spends the rest of its life living amongst the echo of its failure, creating sin in mankind. All right. So now let's go on. Let's move to. Oh, also, I do need you to understand. Wait, take me back one. The word cursed. Right. Where is it? Right here. This word cursed. There's a very interesting play on words in the Hebrew. The curse. The word cursed is our and the word crafty is a rule. So when it says the serpent was the craftiest of all the wild animals and then later it says you're cursed. Our. They sound very similar in Hebrew. We would totally miss that connection if we were reading it in English. So just to give that one to you. Now let's move to verse 15. And I will put amnesty between you and the woman between your offspring and hers, and he will crush your head and will strike his heel. This is called anybody know starts with a P. Somebody said it. The proto proto evangelum. This is the first mention of Jesus Christ in all of the Bible right here before we've even left the garden. The proto evangelism and I will put amnesty. That means objective hostility. I will put objective hostility between you and the woman. In this case, Eve, also the mother of all humanity. This point of your offspring and of hers, he will crush your head. Notice it doesn't say they will crush your head. I don't know about you, but I live in a household where we don't like snakes very much. My wife is petrified of danger noodles. No probes. Right? We don't we don't even go into the reptile house when we go to the zoo. My wife waits outside and I hold everybody's hands going, Jesus, Jesus. And we look, we get through and we lived in Florida. So there were snakes everywhere. I remember one time I came home from work to see my wife in the driveway sitting on top of her vehicle because there was a snake at the front door. Now, as a black racer, it was good to eat other poisonous snakes. But still, a snake's a snake. My wife went, no, no, no, no, no, and sat on top of her car until I got a shovel and dispatched the evilness that was the snake. This right here is a super important point because it is through the serpent that sin has entered the world. Sin puts objective hostility between sin and humanity. Sin is never your friend. Sin is never good for you, even though it's tempting. Right? A youth pastor when I was growing up used to say, sin is chocolate covered poison. It looks good. It smells good. It's sweet. When you touch it, it gets on your fingers and it looks so delicious. And the moment you ingest it and the chocolate melts away, it begins to rot you from the inside out. Anybody that's ever struggled with sin, you know exactly what I'm talking about. It looks super shiny until you swallow it. And then you realize how much poison you just put into your life right here. This is objective hostility between humanity and the serpent. And then there's a promise. He will crush your head. Who ultimately crushes the head of sin? Jesus Christ. But who ultimately struck Jesus down? The enemy. Now, as part of God's plan, totally and absolutely. But this verse right here is the promise for you and I and all of humanity that sin is not greater than us. Because, not because we are great, because he is great. So right here, Genesis chapter 3 verse 15 is the very first mention of Jesus, the promised Messiah in all of the scripture. And we're still in Eden. God had a plan. Praise God, he had a plan. Let's look at verse 16. To the woman. So now we are specifically going to look at consequences given to Eve. And through Eve, all of female humanity. Because Eve is the mother of all living and I'll get to that when Adam says it later. So these consequences are handed to Eve and they're handed down to all female humans. All humans who have an XX chromosome. These are inherited by you genetically from the original mother of all of humanity. To the woman, he says, I will make your pains in childbearing very severe. With painful labor, you will give birth to children. I don't know that I need to expound that. As a man, to tell women how difficult childbearing is sounds pretty darn stupid. Okay, I'll admit that. I was there when my wife had our children. In fact, for my first child, I was thrown out of the operating room because Micah was in respiratory distress. The, what's the shot they put in your back, the epidural was not working correctly. Half of Melanie's nervous system was still working. She was freaking out on the operating table. The doctors like put her out, in comes the anesthesia and a very, very large male nurse who definitely spent some time at the gym. Picked me up by my arm. I mean, I was on toes. He did not waste any time and literally threw me out the door in the hallway. And so I was in the hallway waiting for them to finish the surgery and then they came and brought me Micah. And then I was tethered to Micah. I wasn't allowed to leave him, you know, the whole bracelets and everything. I had to stay with Micah until Melanie could get out of the room. So I'm not going to waste ladies. I'm not going to insult you or waste your time. I'm fairly certain those of you who are mothers understand that that's reality. Men, you just be thankful. Okay, let's just be thankful that this one wasn't given to us. Ladies, I apologize from the bottom of my theological heart. So I will make sure and also here's here's the tough one that gives people a lot of time. Your desire will be for your husband and he will rule over you. Everybody take a breath. Okay, this doesn't mean what it looks like it means, but you might not like what it means either. Okay, so first let's take this word desire. You have three options. You could be talking about a woman's emotional desire to be loved by her husband. You could be talking about the physical desire to be intimate with her husband or both of those are wrong, by the way. This word desire actually means a desire to control and dominate. How do I know that in the very next chapter, this same sentence occurs in the same order and sin is crouching at your door and it desires to have you and you must master it. God says the same exact sentence one chapter later to Cain when sin is crouching at his desor door desiring to have him. So there are some people who want to point out and say because of the fall women are emotional creatures who desire the love of their husband. But to that I have to ask, does that mean Eve was denied the love of her husband in a pre fall world where there was no sin? That doesn't make sense to me. So clearly the emotional desire we got to rule that out. Physical desire. Are you saying then that in a pre fall world that Eve did not enjoy intimacy with her husband when there was no sin? That doesn't make sense either. So we throw it out. The actual word here is desire to dominate and control. So before we get too far, let's see what else. Your desire to dominate and control your husband and he will rule over you. Now remember last week when I told you that as soon as sin happened, it forever wrecked the marital relationship. So before I deal with desire to dominate and rule over because everybody's starting to get really bristly wondering where I'm going to go. Let's go back and get the right picture of marriage. Adam is created first. God gives Adam a job. Go name all the animals, right? Then Adam discovers something that God already knew. It is not good for man to be alone. It was never intended for man to be alone. It was always intended that Adam would have his Ezer, E-Z-E-R. It's the transliteration of the Hebrew word. Ezer means a completely equal but different life partner. Ezer does not mean a subordinate maid. Ezer does not mean a subordinate creature of any kind. Ezer means an equal partner with different function. So if the biblical design of marriage is a man and a woman in equal partnership under their creator with male leadership, not dominance. Now when I get to this verse, if I understand marriage correctly, we're designed to be male and female partners without the male being dominant. There's a difference between dominant and leadership, right? Somebody has to lead. That does not make the leader better in any way. It just makes the leader responsible. And we'll see that as we go through here. So one of the punishments for sin is this desire to dominate and control your husband. And here for the first time, Adam's leadership of Eve is troubling to her. Because of sin, Adam's leadership is now viewed as some sort of dominant rule. And men historically have done a pretty crap job at dominating and controlling women. Instead of God's original design, go back to chapters one and two, where men and women were created to be partners under their creator. So again, sin has totally wrecked the original marital relationship. So desire is a desire to dominate and control. It absolutely is. Check my math. Go to Genesis chapter four and read what God says to Cain when sin is at his door. It desires to dominate and control. So in this relationship that was intended to be an equal partnership with leadership, not dominance, now all of a sudden, Eve, and thereby all of womankind, has a desire to dominate men rather than partner with men. And also, no longer has a desire to operate as a partner. But now male leadership becomes abhorrent or ugly or difficult for women. I think that tracks historically when I see how men have treated women populations throughout history. We as males have done a lot to dominate women instead of partner with women. But again, I've got to remember, history happened in the fallen world. The only proper example of marriage is before Genesis chapter three, when God said to Adam, bruh, you ain't enough on your own. It's not good for you to be alone. And you know what I think is hilarious, men? We are hard-headed enough, right? I'll just own that. We are totally hard-headed, right? Ladies, this is the amen moment. Feel free to elbow your husband at any time in the next 30 seconds. We are so hard-headed as males that God had to put Adam to work and let him discover his inadequacy in order for him to properly receive Eve. Adam had to go to work and name all the animals. And in naming the animals, go, huh, how come the amen there? And anytime I think of simple revelation, I think of a southern man. Hey man, there's a male and female bird. That's a male and female ostrich, male and female cow. Hey daddy, how come I'm only a male? Right? God in His graciousness allowed Adam pre-fall. No sin yet. Adam is still totally righteous before God. He allowed Adam to discover his inadequacies in trying to be full on his own. It's not good for man to be alone. And that part has never changed. It's still not good for man to be alone. Every now and again, we get an example in scripture of a man specifically selected to serve God through singleness. The apostle Paul is a wonderful example. He says that. I serve God through my singleness. But as a gender, men, it's not good for us to be alone. What's so horrible about the consequences of sin is now we have to fight to lead well and to lead, not dominate. And anybody that's been around, my wife and I, my wife and I both have incredibly strong personalities. We are both very leading people. In fact, just a few weeks ago, someone came up to my wife in church and said, I don't understand how you two are married. You guys are so strong, you're like the same person. And I'm like, well, we both are winners. Like when you play on a championship team, you play to win. And we win together. And nothing we do apart is a win. It's either together or nothing. So this desire here, ladies, here's the truth that you probably didn't see that you don't want to hear. And if I get fired tomorrow, that's OK. But I got to tell you what this word means. Because of the fall, ladies have a natural, innate desire to want to control men instead of let them lead. Men, because of sin, our God-given position of leadership is often received poorly because we do it badly and women desire to rebel against it. That's not me. I'm just saying that's the text right there. Right? So again, if we have a vote of no confidence tomorrow, it's at least in the text, I promise. So here's the other cool thing. Let me get to verse 17. And then ladies, there's a light for your tunnel, I promise. Verse 17, to Adam, right? So God addressed the serpent. He then stepped up a notch. He addresses Eve. And now he's back to addressing Adam, which gentlemen, this is for all of us. To Adam, because you listened to your wife and ate the fruit from the tree which I commanded you. Notice Adam's failure is in two steps. The first was listening to his wife and the real problem is here, eating the fruit. Is there any problem with a man listening to his wife? No. In fact, if they were designed to be partners and it's not good for a man to be alone, I would say the Bible implies communication and partnership in marriage. So Adam is not being cursed because he listened to his wife. There's plenty of things my wife is way better at than me. And I'm a wise man to listen to her counsel. The problem is this word listened here, it doesn't just mean to hear. It doesn't just mean, bro, I hear your words. It means to choose to hear and obey. And now when I look at because you listened and obeyed your wife and ate the fruit from the tree which I commanded you, meaning because you obeyed your wife rather than me, your creator. That's the real juxtaposition for Adam. There is no problem with a man listening to his wife. There is no problem with a husband and wife being partners under their creator. In fact, that's how we're designed. The problem is when you choose to listen to someone other than God as the spiritual authority in your life. And men, you've heard me say it before with the Noah story. Our job is to lead, not dominate. But when God says something, you got to toe the line, this is what God says. And that's why we got to do it this way, because God said so. Right? Because you listened and obeyed your wife rather than me. That's really the connotation here. You must not eat from, and here it is. Look at that word cursed again. Cursed is the ground. Did you notice that when God spoke to the serpent, he used the word cursed? When God spoke to Adam, he used the word cursed. But he didn't say to Eve. Eve, rather than receiving a curse, receives a promise. And your child will defeat sin forever. The serpent is cursed because he's in a leadership role. He led. The man is cursed. Adam is cursed because he was responsible to lead. Eve is not cursed. Now, ladies who've had babies, you might disagree with me, okay? But the word cursed is never given to Eve. What is Eve given instead? She's given the proto-evangelum, the promise that there's going to be a child from her that will ultimately defeat sin. But I also need you to notice what is cursed. Here, it is not Adam that is cursed. For the serpent, the serpent was directly cursed for the serpent's actions. Notice this. Cursed is the ground because of you. We have to ask ourselves, why would God curse the very ground of the planet for the failure of a human? This is where we get, if anybody's ever heard the term federal headship, not federal government, that's a civics lesson, federal headship. You've heard me say it before. Adam was God's regent. He was God's representative authority on Earth before the fall. When Adam chose to disobey God, he chose to give up the regency position, the vice president position on planet Earth. At the moment of temptation, Adam had the ability to stand up to the serpent and say, no, that's not what my daddy said. He said, step off my woman. The rest of the Bible would have been a very different story had Adam chose to be a little street. But here, cursed is the ground because of you. The very planet that you and I walk on every day has been cursed because of Adam's sin, not Eve's. Because Adam is the federal head of humanity. Because of our ancestors sin, everyone below the ancestor inherits the sin of the ancestor. I need you to notice here that none of Eve's consequences dealt with the planet. It only dealt with womankind. Here, Adam's consequences are the planet itself because of you through painful toil. And here's something that I discovered this week when I was studying that I had never noticed before. This term, through painful toil, in Hebrew is the same exact term used for Eve's childbearing. Through painful toil, you will bear children. For Adam, through painful toil, you will bear fruit. Both Eve and Adam's judgments are the same, but their authority levels are different. Eve's sin affects all of female humanity. Adam's sin affects the entire planet. Now, why? Why would the Bible do that? Well, let me look for some New Testament confirmation. In the New Testament, Jesus is referred to as the second Adam, the firstborn of the resurrection. In Jesus, a new federal head, the failure of the first Adam is corrected. That corrects it for you and I. That allows eternal life with God to be accessible again. But that's not the end of the Bible's story. We have to go all the way to the book of Revelation. What happens at the very end of the book? Spoiler alert if you haven't read the end of the Bible. We don't actually live in heaven for eternity. It looks great on a little card where everybody's a chubby baby with a harp, right? I'll be the first person to tell you, you shouldn't give out a musical instrument to everybody. Some people just don't have the skills. Ryan, however, you get a big one, okay? God creates a new heaven and a new earth at the very end of the Bible. Why does God need to do this? Right here. Because Jesus' blood saves you and I, but it doesn't save the planet. The only way to redeem all of God's creation and return it to the Edenic state is at the end of the Bible. And God, remember at the Noah story, God promised I will never destroy creation again by water. Those two words are really important because when you get to the end of the book, guess what happens? God doesn't use water. Anybody know what he uses? Fire. Thank you, Michael Joel. You're totally right. There's my son in the back. At the end of the Bible, God destroys our entire planet with fire. Why? Because Jesus on the cross bought back the sin of humanity. He didn't buy back the sin that's in the very ground you and I walk on. The air that you and I breathe. The plants that you and I eat. We cannot escape a fallen world without the full biblical picture of salvation. That's why this is important. And again, do you see how much stuff in the Bible you lose if we give up Genesis 1, 2, and 3 to mythology? If we give it up and say, no, that didn't actually happen. It's just an ancient Near Eastern myth. Well then why the heck did Jesus die on the cross? Why the heck does God burn the planet at the end of the book? None of those answers make sense without the right questions in the beginning. This sets the stage. Have you ever wondered why? Let me just be like super real for a minute. Let's put the sermon down. Let's just have a heart talk. Have you ever wondered why you can feel so spiritual and yet the world around you feels so dark? Right? You can be super close to Jesus. I mean your personal worship time is like better than Hillsong. Your prayer life is better than like, I don't know, Billy Graham. And then you walk into work and boom, sin hits you in the face. Because you breathe it every time you take a breath. You walk on it every time you walk through the blades of grass. As beautiful as they are, they are wrecked. They are sinful because of Adam. And that's why I will say the biblical design of marriage is viewed here. That Adam was intended to lead in leadership without dominance. They were intended to be equal partners together underneath of their creator. But it's only because of Adam's sin that the entire planet literally goes to hell. There was, and anybody ever like pricked their finger on a thorn bush and thought, thanks Adam. Our planet still needs redemption. Humanity is redeemed by the blood of Christ on the cross, but only the ground, the planet. And then through painful toil, just like Eve through painful toil you will bear children. Adam through painful toil you will eat from the fruit all the days of your life. Now we take it forward to verse 18. Guess what happens? It will produce thorns and thistles for you and you will eat the plants of the field. Adam's a farmer. But see in the garden Adam didn't have to farm for the plants to just provide food. They were provided miraculously. Can anybody think of another place in the Bible where God provides miraculous food for his children? The manna from heaven. And wasn't that also after a sin and redemptive moment in biblical history? Right? The blood was shed at the Passover lamb. They come out of Egypt and God provides. Here, keep in mind, they just lived all of those things that we're just recalling in the cool movie. They just lived it all. And now they're hearing about why sin is there for the first time. Why? I mean think about the number of shepherds when they're sheping the sheep out in the fields and they walk through thorn bushes, have to pull the thorns out of the sheep's wool. This would have been immediately applicable to its original audience. You're like, oh! That's totally why that's so horrible. Okay, verse 19. By the sweat of your brow you will eat the food until you return to the ground. Now some people have mistakenly read into this that work is only because of sin. Please remember that Adam, when he was placed in the garden, was placed there to care for it. Service to God predates sin. So this now alters our work. And now we have to work just to survive. Whereas before, if we had lived in obedience and we were able to eat from the tree of life, as well as all the beautiful lush trees that just bloomed in the Garden of Eden, we would have had eternal life and supernatural provision all found in the obedience to God. The end of the story tells the beginning. Until you return to the ground, since from it you were taken and thus you are dust, you will return. Then we move forward and here's verse 20. Here's where it gets good. Adam named his wife Eve because she would become the mother of all the living. Remember when I told you that in the Bible the naming of something denotes the leadership and the authority over. Right? Adam named Eve. Now in Hebrew, you're wondering why Eve? Like what does that mean? Well, keep in mind they weren't writing in English, right? He was writing in Hebrew. The word Eve in Hebrew means living. He named her living because it's through her that all living creatures would be born. If you want to write this down, you can go Google for yourself. Google the term mitochondrial Eve. And what you will find is that it has been proven scientifically that all humans alive today come from a single common female ancestor. The Bible has been proved true again. Mitochondrial Eve is now a proven scientific fact that all of the humans alive on planet Earth today can trace our lineage back to a single female ancestor. Exactly what Genesis chapter 3 verse 20 says. So Adam names Eve as her husband, as the leader, but now see his leadership is viewed through a negative lens because of sin. Then 21, the Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and his wife and clothed them. This is the first instance of sin equaling shedding of blood, right? You need the shedding of blood for the forgiveness of sin. But notice who made the garments. Notice who provides the, who's the only person in the right position to provide forgiveness of sins? The Lord God. The Lord God slaughtered the animals necessary to cover Adam and Eve. Why? Because you and I in and of ourselves can't cover our own sins. It's impossible. But God, because he is the righteous standard by which all sin is judged, God creates garments of skin. By the way, what garments were Adam and Eve wearing before they got these? The fig leaves. Fig leaves. Garments that were from God's creation, but made by man and are perishable versus garments that are provided by God through bloodshed. Do you see the difference here? Mankind attempts to cover our own sins, but it's really only found in God that sin is forgiven. And who's the one who ultimately provides for their sin? Not Adam and Eve, but God himself. Verse 22. And the Lord God said, the man has become like one of us, knowing good and evil. He must not be allowed to reach out his hand and also take from the tree of life and eat and live forever. Interestingly enough, in most of your weekly Hebrew readings of scripture, you know how like in the Hebrew calendar, they read the scriptures every single Sabbath? This verse is the beginning of a new week. So there's a lot of biblical scholars who will tell you that this verse right here is actually the beginning of the next chapter. So take me back one verse. I just want to show you something. If, if that is correct and the chapter break is just off, we're talking thematic versus numerical. Hopefully you understand that when the Bible was written, there weren't chapter and verse notations, right? They were on long scrolls. And so you have to look for the thematic break, not just the numerical break. We put those numbers in hundreds of years later so that you and I could do what we're doing right now. If this theme stops with God covering their sin, then God's response to sin is not rejection, but forgiveness. Now take me to verse 22. Now we bring the next theme in. Now God needs to prevent man from living forever. Why does God do this? Why does he now need to limit the age of man? This is grace in action. And I'll show you why. Has anybody ever noticed, and please don't raise your hand or shout out right here because I don't want you to be embarrassed, but has anybody ever noticed when you get into a habitual sin, you have to keep digging deeper and deeper and deeper and deeper in order to feel the same excited levels? Doesn't matter what sin you pick. Doesn't matter what icky poison you want to eat. The first time you try that sin, it's exhilarating. But then the exhilaration wears off and you got to try it at a deeper level. Then that exhilaration wears off and you got to try it at a deeper level. Can you imagine how dark you would be if you could live forever, continuing to look for deeper and deeper and darker and more horrible levels of sin? Like we only live short lives in comparison to eternity. By God taking away our ability to live forever in a sinful state, He guards us from an overly deep penetration of sin. And He also allows us to be free from sin and return back to an immortal, incorruptible state. Because according to the Bible, every one of us has an immortal peace. We call it our soul, right? The part that lives on into the afterlife. When I look at the way God made man, He made him earth of the ground and breath of God, spiritual and material and immaterial. We are all designed to live for eternity with God. Some people will choose to reject God and live for eternity without Him. But by limiting our access to living forever, God protects us from the depth of ick that we would get ourselves into. And I don't know about you, but I've been in some pretty icky situations, right? I've been in some sin that I'm like, oh, I really got to get out of this. It's just getting bad. Have you ever been somewhere and watched yourself do something or say something and go, that is totally not me right now? Right? If you've been there, you know exactly what I'm talking about. This isn't me. This isn't who I want to be. This is who sin has told me I have to be. What would that be like if you could live for 900 or 9000 years? How dark would we get as humans? Really, really bad. Ultimately, we do get the chance to live forever. God will restore eternal life. But without the scar of sin. Then verse 23. So God banished them from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which they had been taken. And verse 24. After he drove the man out, he placed on the east side of the Garden of Eden cherubim with a lightsaber, I mean flaming sword flashing back and forth to guard the tree of life. The tree of life comes up again in the biblical story. So don't think that humanity is lost for all time. No, by limiting the amount of man's life, he limits the wickedness we can get into. And then if you want to turn all the way to the back of your Bible and look at Revelation chapter 22 verses 1 and 2, the tree of life is waiting for humanity when we are free from the penalties of sin that we currently live under. You and I were always designed to live in blessed obedience to God. Unfortunately, you and I were also born into a world that is uniquely scarred by sin. And that's why we need a savior and creation needs a restart so that we can live with God the way he originally designed us to. So let me give you the takeaway. How do you, how can you walk away with this today? God responds to sin with compassion and mercy by drawing Adam and Eve back to him. That's what's questions for the beginning of chapter 3 and teaching them through their failure. This is the same way he wants us to respond to us. We must choose not to hide from him or come to him. That's actually not the takeaway for this week. Here it is. While we live in a world scarred by sin and its consequences, a savior has come to fix the fall and a glorious future awaits all those who trust in Christ shed blood for the covering of their sin. We will once again be immortal and incorruptible, but only when we are in right relationship with God. That's the specific consequences of sin. Praise God he won't let us live too long in our sinful state. Praise God he sent us a savior to redeem humanity. And praise God he's got a plan to redeem creation itself so you and I can go back and live in what Eden would have been like. Free from sin, free from pain, free from death. But all of that only comes through the one who was promised to crush the head of the serpent of sin. While we choose to live in obedience to sin, we are choosing to live in disobedience to God. When you choose to live in obedience to God, you must choose to live in disobedience to sin. There is no middle ground. In fact, one theologian said it this way, God never sends someone to hell. There are two types of people in eternity. There are those who say to God, thy will be done. And there are those who God says to them, thy will be done. That's the choice I leave you with. It's the same choice we find at the end of Genesis chapter 3. God has made provision for you and I that our sin completely wiped clean. He has taken away temporarily the ability for us to live immortal life. We are designed for immortality. We are also designed for incorruptibility with no sin. Unfortunately, you and I don't have that life right now. It's been incredibly difficult trying to teach my children to live in a fallen world in a righteous manner. That's tough. That's tough for tell me to do. I just spent 17 hours driving a truck and I can tell you, turn signals are from the devil. So here's what I'd like to ask you today. Where are you at in your obedience to God versus your obedience to sin? This is the part where you have to respond. I'd like to ask everybody to either take out your phone and scan the code on your form to use your connect card. Or please use one of the cards that's in the back of the seat in front of you. If you happen to be joining us online, you can go to catalyst302.com slash connect. If you're in the room, you can scan that code right there. It'll take you to our online connect card. My question for you today is simple. Are you living hiding from God wallowing in your sin? Or are you living seeking God running away from your sin? You cannot have it both ways. It's one or the other. It's binary. There are no middle ground when it comes to God and sin. It's one way or the other. God has provided not only for your sin, but he's provided a plan for all of us to live in a sin free creation. I would love to know what that is going to be like. I haven't seen it yet. I have a glimpse of it when I get to feel the Holy Spirit within me. The Holy Spirit is like the IOU for eternity. God said, listen, I'm going to forgive your sin right now. But we're not done yet. I'm also going to give you my spirit to live within you. If you are saved through the blood of Christ, you are also indwelt by the third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit of God. He's the down payment for all eternity. But God's not going to force you to spend eternity with him. He's going to let you choose otherwise. I'm going to beg you not to make that choice. I'm going to literally beg you to please look at your life right now and in five seconds tell me, am I living for God or am I living for me? Because those who live for me have not put God number one. God has to be the first. So as you finish filling out your connect card, I'm going to ask the ushers to come forward. We're going to take our tithes and offerings. We're going to close in a worship song. And then I got a couple of three things I want to tell you at the end of our service. If you're joining us for the first time, you do not have to give today. We don't give out of compulsion. We don't give tithes and offerings because we're trying to buy our forgiveness. Jesus already paid for it. We give to God out of the things he blesses us with because he is worthy of our worship. So let's worship him today. Heavenly Father, I thank you so much for your grace. I thank you so much for your love. But I thank you so much for providing for us when we were still trapped in sin. Lord God, draw us deeper in our relationship with you and show us how we can reflect your love to the community in which you placed us. Receive all the gifts that are given today as an act of worship for your amazing grace. In Jesus' name, Amen.