Amen, you can be seated. Amen. Well, good morning and welcome to catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being here and being a part of our service today. Whether you're worshiping with us on campus or you're joining us online, thank you for being a part of the catalyst family. Thank you for being a part of our service. Here at catalyst, we're about one thing and one thing only. I'd like to say thank you so much to my beautiful wife for an amazing worship set. That was awesome. Thank you, Mackenzie, for leading us in God's presence. It was awesome. And I think worship has a really great place in a church service. I mean, obviously as a pastor, I think about how do all the elements in a church service work together. And just like a plow, right? Worship does the job of plowing up the hardened ground of our heart after a tough week, after things go bad, after work grinds you down. Worship has a way of just breaking up all of that ground and getting it ready to receive the seed of the word and the water of the spirit. And so that's what we're going to do this morning. At catalyst, we're about one thing and that's loving people too. Life change. So if you are watching this service, whether you're here this morning or you're joining us online, even after the service has taken place, I want to say thank you for being a part, but I don't want you to be the same. I want you to be able to be changed. Now, we are going to be concluding the In the Beginning series this week, but we had a small technical difficulty at the end of last week. And so I wasn't able to answer some of the questions that came in. So since we've been off topic for a couple of weeks, let me go ahead and give you the title this morning's message, which is Faith After the Fall. Faith After the Fall. Right. So our key text for this morning is going to be Genesis, Chapter 4, the first 17 verses. Now, let me give you the key thought that's kind of kept us all on the rails. The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for us to understand God's relationship to humanity. And then I'm going to give you the outline of how you're supposed to understand these four chapters. This is on that back of your handout. Chapter one is the origin of everything that God created. Chapter two is the origin of humanity, how and why God created. Chapter three is the origin of sin and the consequences, what happened to everything that God created. And now here, when we make it to chapter four, we're going to look at the fallen world, how God relates to fallen humanity. You see how that works together? It's not some disconjointed multiple theories of creation that were put together after the fact. I think it tells one very clear story. So before I read our text this morning, let me go ahead and take the few questions that came in at the end of last week. So at the end of last week, we looked at the consequences from the fall, specifically the specific ones for both male and female. And the first question was, God obviously already knew what would happen, but would Adam and Eve have avoided the fall somehow if they had come clean with God and took responsibility? I think it's a great question because it takes into account, number one, the human culpability of the fall. Adam and Eve did willingly transgress and violate God's law. So if they had owned up to it, does that erase the wrong they did? No, it does not. Just as much as if one of our children does something wrong at home and they own up to it, the glass table still be broke. Just by owning up to it does not mean that the table doesn't have a scratch. Does not mean that one time my teenage daughter was doing her nails and got nail polish remover on the wood varnish of my wife's dining room table. And you can come over my house and eat and you can still see those marks here to that day. Yes, she owned up to it. She apologized. She felt bad. But my dining room table still has a reminder of my teenage daughter on it. So would it have completely erased the fall? No. Would God still have been gracious? Yes. And I think what we're going to see this morning in Chapter four is God is still gracious. Second question, if Adam and Eve were the first on the earth and had many children, where did the other nations come from? Great question. Let me address that one in this week's message, because someone's going to ask where did Kane's wife come from. So I can answer both of those together. So just hold on to that one and we'll get into that here in Chapter four. Question number three is who is the seed of the serpent? So if you remember in Chapter three, we see the promise of the proto evangelism or the proto evangelum. There's the promise of the one who will defeat the serpent and the seed of the serpent. So the seed of the serpent is Satan himself, the everlasting enemy of God. Number four, if we return back to an earth before sin, will we not know good and evil like Adam and Eve in their original state? Bonus points to whoever asked that question, because you're really starting to tie the beginning of the Bible and the end of the Bible together in a great way. Except for one thing. Revelation doesn't promise us that we return to an earth before sin. That's not the way Revelation goes. Revelation promises a new heaven and a new earth. It will be a new creation devoid of sin, not this current creation with sin removed. That said, Adam and Eve still had the ability to know good and evil. The intention was that we would listen to God's direction and follow God's definition of what is good and what is evil. By eating of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, they usurped God's being the definition of good and evil and tried to define it for themselves. Which creates a wonderful problem for most worldviews. And we'll be talking about this in a few weeks when I do my apologetic seminar. But morality has to have a grounding. Somewhere you have to decide what is good, what is evil, what is right, what is wrong. And that's an objective thing. It shouldn't be subjective. It's got to be objective. It is objectively true that Mother Teresa was a better human being than Hitler. Right? I would say that we would all agree that's an objectively true statement. So by usurping God, they tried to know good and evil on their own. Whereas God's plan was for us to know what is good and what is evil in relationship with him. So would they still know good and evil? Yes. But it would be through their relationship with God, not through trying to learn it on their own. And the last question. Do you think that any bugs, mosquitoes, flies, etc. are a result of the fall? Well, listen, I lived in Florida for many years. So it is my personal theological opinion that McQuitos are of the devil. I just want to say that up front. I think mosquitoes are a scourge on the earth and they are of the devil. And they are horrible flying vampire like creatures. That said, can I show you in Genesis chapter 3 when the fall happened that God created mosquitoes? No, I can't. What I can say is there are one of two options here. A, we do see that creation itself was affected by the fall. So anything that we see today, anything that we observe today, anything that science studies today is all of a fallen world. We do not have a way to track back to the non-fallen world. So I can't tell you what sin did to McQuitos. I can just tell you that in their current rendition, I hate them very much. And they are a joy to kill every time they come around. I'll also say I feel super sorry for all of you who like my beautiful wife seem to be mosquito magnets. We can go outside and I can walk through a swarm of mosquitoes and they will not affect me. My wife can put a finger outside the house and the swarm will come striking at the window to come and find her. I just believe that she is sweeter than me. But either that or mosquitoes just don't like Hawaiians. Maybe that's the case. Either way, today is going to be a little bit different. If you're new with us this morning, today is about asking questions. So in the handout that the ushers gave you, you ought to notice a line that was highlighted in yellow to ask your questions. Today, we're going to go through the final message in this series. I'm going to read the passage about Cain and Abel. We're going to walk through it. I've got my notes. I've also got my little teleprompter here. We've double checked the technology works. I'm going to be ready to take your questions. So first, let's go ahead and read Genesis chapter 4 verses 1 through 17. Then I'm going to go back and I'm going to start teaching through the text. And I'm going to try to answer your questions as they come up. So here we go. Genesis chapter 4. Adam made love to his wife Eve, and she became pregnant and gave birth to Cain. She said, With the help of the Lord, I have brought forth a man. Later, she gave birth to his brother Abel. Now Abel kept flocks and Cain worked the soil. In the course of time, Cain brought some of the fruits of the soil as an offering to the Lord. And Abel also brought an offering, fat portions from some of the first born of his flock. And the Lord looked with favor on Abel and his offering. But on Cain and his offering, he did not look with favor. So Cain was very angry and his face was downcast. Then the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? Why is your face downcast? If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? But if you do not do what is right, sin is crouching at your door. It desires to have you, but you must rule over it. Now Cain said to his brother Abel, Let's go out in the field. While they were in the field, Cain attacked his brother Abel and killed him. Verse 9. Then the Lord said to Cain, Where is your brother Abel? I don't know, he replied. Am I my brother's keeper? Verse 10. Then the Lord said, What have you done? Listen, your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. You are under a curse and driven from the ground, which opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hands. When you work the ground, it will no longer yield its crops for you. You will be a restless wanderer on the earth. Cain said to the Lord, My punishment is more than I can bear. Today you are driving me from the land and I will be hidden from your presence. I will be a restless wanderer on the earth and whoever finds me will kill me. But the Lord said to him, Not so. Anyone who kills Cain will suffer vengeance seven times over. Then the Lord put a mark on Cain so that no one who found him would kill him. So Cain went out from the Lord's presence and lived in the land of Nod, east of Eden. Verse 17. Cain made love to his wife and she became pregnant and gave birth to Enoch. Cain was then building a city and he named it after his son Enoch. And we're going to stop at verse 17. So let's rewind here. Let's go back to verse one. And Adam made love to his wife Eve. She became pregnant and gave birth to Cain. So remember now we're getting to see our first glimpse of God's relationship with sinful fallen humanity. When Adam and Eve were originally created, they were created perfect in every sense of the word. Physically perfect, genetically perfect, morally perfect, spiritually perfect. There are no flaws in the very first two human beings. But then as soon as sin enters the picture, they're now fallen human beings. And I got to say, the first thing that we read here in chapter four is there is a blessing here. Adam made love to his wife Eve. She became pregnant and gave birth to Cain. If you go all the way back to Genesis chapter one, verse 28, what was the very first thing God said to Adam and Eve? Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. That was the first blessing on humanity. Here what is the first thing we see in chapter four? God has not rescinded all blessing even in the face of sin. Even in the face of disobedience, God is still blessing Adam and Eve. In fact, what did we learn last chapter? God in the midst of all of the penalties, in all of the specific consequences for sin, God told Eve, just hang on lady, you will have a son and he will crush the heel, the head, his heel will crush the head of the serpent. So Eve is given a promise that one of her sons, a seed of Eve, will ultimately crush all of sin. And what's the first thing we see in chapter four? Eve becomes pregnant. She gives birth to Cain. Now do me a favor, everybody look, those of you who have your Bibles with you, look at them. Anybody raise your hand if the phrase with the help of is actually not in your Bible. Does everybody's Bible read with the help of the Lord or I gave birth to a son with the help of God? Here's what I, here's a big surprise. The word help does not appear in this verse at all in the Hebrew text. At all. It's a, and so here we have to remember, you and I are reading an English translation of a Hebrew document, right? When God gave the scripture to Moses, Moses wrote it in Hebrew. So when we read with the help of the Lord, a more literal translation of the Hebrew text here would read, I have received a mail, the Lord. That's Eve's actual statement in Hebrew. I have received a mail or I have been given a mail. I have been blessed with a mail, whichever one you want to put there. I have received a mail, the Lord. Now because the rest of revealed scripture tells us, who is the promised seed who ultimately defeats sin? Jesus. That's right. Because we know that, right? Because we have the fully revealed word of God and the Holy Spirit to help us interpret it. We know that the promised seed from Eve is Jesus. Does Eve know that? No, she does not. There's no way. Eve's a human, right? She's not a deity. She's not omniscient. She doesn't know everything. So when you read the sentence, I have received a mail, Jehovah. I mean she straight up uses, I have received a mail, Jehovah. What is she saying? She believes Cain is the promised son who is going to defeat the serpent. From her perspective, I mean just be honest, ladies, if the Lord said, there will come one from your seed who will win for you and then you have a baby. What's the natural human assumption? The baby that I have is from God and he's going to fulfill the promise from God. That totally makes sense. But see when we read our English Bibles, the translating team who translated this verse adds the with the help of, and in my opinion, distorts the meaning of the original Hebrew in order to align it with the New Testament. Is that bad? No. But I do want you to see that if you don't understand that Eve thinks Cain is the solution to the sin problem, the rest of chapter 4 looks totally different, right? When Cain is supposed to be the one in his mama's eyes who's going to fix her and her daddy's mistake and all of a sudden Cain is the one who kills his brother, it's way more dramatic. Dum dum dum. So I want you to understand I have received a mail, the Lord. We got our first question, where did Cain's wife come from? Just put a pin in that, I promise I will answer it in depth, but I got to get to the end of the chapter and then I can show it to you. So I will answer that one, Mel, just leave it right there so I don't forget it. But I want you to understand that from Eve's perspective with the help of, none of this is actually in the Hebrew. It's I have received or brought or been blessed with a man, and Jehovah is actually at the end of the sentence in Hebrew. I have received a man, the Lord. Eve believes that Cain is going to be the promised person to fix the fall. And the word Lord here, remember capital letters? That means Jehovah, Yahweh, the covenant name for God. I have received a gift from the covenant God who I transgressed last chapter, and he's going to help me fix the sin problem. That's Eve's perspective because she's a human and she can't see the future just like you and I can't today. Alright, now let's look at verse 2. Later she gave birth to his brother Abel. Now Abel kept flocks and Cain worked the soil. Two things I need you to learn. Number 1, Cain is the absolute first born human in all of fallen humanity. Number 2, Abel is his younger brother. Was that a revelation to anybody? Just want to make sure we're following along. Cain is the first born, Abel is next, and this verse also tells us their occupations. Abel is a shepherd, Cain is a farmer. Why is Cain a farmer? Because his daddy is. Right? What was Adam's job? Adam's job pre-fall was to tend the garden that God planted in Eden. What is Adam's job post fall? He's got to go now grow crops because the earth is no longer just going to all of a sudden make super delicious food because of the fall. So what's Adam's primary occupation? Adam's a farmer. So what does his first born son do? Learns what his daddy does. Cain grows up and learns the trade of his father. His brother Abel becomes a shepherd. Now I know everybody who's grown up in church wants to look at Abel and go, well, he's a shepherd. That's why he's better. At this point, there's really no moral distinction between these two jobs. One guy does one job. One guy does the other job. Just because Moses and David and Jesus, you know, they're all shepherd characters doesn't mean that we need to read this back into Abel. Abel has a job. Cain has a job. Now let's take a look at verse three. In the course of time, notice that it doesn't tell me how much time. It just says as time went by. What I need you to see then is because this is an undisclosed amount of time, this is just as they lived life. As stuff went down. As the time on the out, as the days of our lives transpire. This is just normal life. This is normal life in Genesis chapter four. Cain brought some of the first fruits of the soil as an offering to the Lord Yahweh Jehovah, the covenant God. Let me ask you a question. Why is Cain worshiping God? Where did he learn about God? Well, he can either learn it from his parents, but see, because in this chapter, I see that God talks to him directly. He says, hey, where's your brother Abel? So not only in fallen humanity do I still see that Adam and Eve have a relationship with God. Their child, their children have a relationship with God. They've been taught to worship God. So just because humanity is fallen does not mean that God has written all of humanity off. We still see relationship with the covenant making God and we still see offerings bring brought to the Lord. There is only two ways that Cain learned how to bring offerings to God. Either A, his daddy taught him or B, his bigger daddy taught him. That's all I can give you. What I can see is this verse says Cain has a relationship with and worships God. So here's what I want you to understand about verse three. When you read this story, you need to understand that Cain is a believer, not a nonbeliever. Cain has a relationship with God. He speaks directly to God. He brings offerings to God. Does that sound like a nonbeliever to you? Although in church, see, we want to put our distance between Cain because he's like a bad dude, right? And we don't want to actually accept the reality that there are some people who are believers who are also sinners. We don't want to accept the reality that you can have a relationship with God and give offerings to God and still be a little jacked up because of sin. But that's totally what Cain is. Cain is a believer, not a nonbeliever. That's the second thing that you would miss if you don't see that I have brought forth a man, the Lord. Eve thinks that Cain's going to fix the sin problem. We're seeing here a relationship with God in Cain's life to the point that Cain brings an offering. Now, I need to point out this word right here. Some of the fruits. Some of the fruits. Now, later, because we have the revealed word, we understand that God doesn't want just some of the stuff. He wants the best of the stuff. Take a look at verse four. And Abel also brought an offering. Fat portions from the firstborn of the flock. So do you see this juxtaposition here? Cain brought some stuff. Abel brought some stuff. What's the difference between Cain and Abel's offerings? Cain's, and you wouldn't catch this in English as much as in the Hebrew, but Abel's offerings are the best of what is able to be brought. The fat portions from the firstborn. That's the best of the best of the best. Cain kept the best for himself and gave God some of the rest. So take me back one, Eric. Just look at this. Cain brought some of the fruits. Now go forward to verse four. Abel brought firstborn. The juxtaposition here has nothing to do with food versus animal offering. So let me tackle that one up front. Most people think that Cain's offering is rejected because it's not an offering made with blood. There's a presupposition there that's wrong. You'd think that God only accepts offerings made of blood. But that doesn't track with the law. There are grain offerings. There are drink offerings. There are wave offerings. You and I don't give offerings with blood today. We give currency style offerings. So the idea that Cain's offering is rejected because he gives out of what his life and his career brings and Abel's is accepted because he happens to work with sheep is wrong. The reason that Cain's offering is rejected is Abel gave the best. Cain gave leftovers. And I can show you in the law, you can look up grain offering, wave offerings. There are other types of offerings. The idea that Abel's offering is accepted only because it contains blood is the idea that their offering is a sin offering. But this doesn't say that. In fact, there's no law yet. So there's no such thing as sin offering yet. This is just I give to the God of my creator out of the blessings that he's given me. So Cain's offering is accepted because he's given me So Cain's offering is rejected not because of its content, not because of what it has in it, but his conduct. The fact that Abel gave the best and Cain gave the rest. That's a huge difference that usually is either overlooked or mispreached because you're somehow locked on the idea that all offerings have to be made with death. But that's not what the Bible teaches. I mean, if you brought in like a piece of a bloody animal today, can I just ask you just don't put that in the offering plate today. I'm pretty sure the count team would be a little upset if they're starting to go through everything and all of a sudden he brought in deer heart. I'm not sure that's what we want. So let's let go of the idea that Cain had to bring blood and let's look at what does the text say. The Bible says that Cain only brought some. He kept the best for himself and he gave God out of what was left. Abel brought what was left. Verse 5. But on Cain and his offering he did not look with favor. Sorry, back to verse 4, Eric. I apologize. The Lord looked with favor on Abel and his offering and now verse 5. But on Cain he did not look with favor. He believes the two offerings differently. Because Abel brought the first bit of what is the best. In churchy circles we call that first fruits. Anybody ever heard that term? The first fruits. So it's an agricultural term. The first fruits are literally the first stuff you collect. The shiniest, the best, right off the vine. That's what's supposed to go to God. Then your family eats and you sell and barter whatever was left. And I got a question coming in. It says, but scripture says that both son gave some, not all. So why is it different? Great question. They gave, so if you'll allow me to use a term that's not mentioned here. They gave an offering from what was theirs. They weren't required to give it all because this is also what they eat off of. So you want to think about maybe the concept of a tithe, right? They gave an offering from that which was their life's work. If Cain had given the best of his crops, we wouldn't have to have this problem. It's not that he didn't give it all. It's that he didn't give the first and the best. Abel did not give it all either. Abel was still able to eat from the rest of the flock. But God wanted the first and the best. So it's not about the sum. That word sum is trying to translate the Hebrew word underneath that says the difference between best and rest. And there's that juxtaposition in the Hebrew. So it's not that they didn't give it all. It's that Abel gave the first and the best. Cain gave the leftovers. We're on verse 5. Notice that God receives the offerings differently. A few years ago I did an entire teaching series called Worthless Worship. And I went through all the times in the Bible where God rejects the offering of his people. This is the first one. This is the first time in the very first Fallen Humans, somebody offers an offering to God. And God says, yeah, that's not good enough. You didn't do what I told you to do. You didn't give me what was best. So what is Cain's response? Of course he is remorseful and he accepts correction like every good teenager does. Oh, wait a minute. That's not what it says. So Cain was very angry and his face was downcast. He's downcast. He's depressed. He's upset. He is negatively emotional. Why? Because for some reason he thinks he gets to dictate to the God of creation how he's to give an offering. You notice that? Obviously he understood how to do what was right because Abel did what was right. So just like his mama and his daddy, Cain is given instructions and decides to do it his own way. And then gets upset when God doesn't receive it the same way. I don't know about you, but that is a major correction to my heart. Sometimes I got to ask, am I doing this my way, expecting God to accept it as his way, or am I actually just following God's rules? So then we move forward to verse 6. Then, notice again the Lord here, this is the covenant name for God, said to Cain, this is God himself speaking directly to Cain. Why are you so angry? Why are you so depressed? This is the best statement in all of the world. Everyone just needs to memorize this one verse and all of humanity would get better. If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? If you do not know what is right, sin is crouching at your door. You know what that verse tells me? Cain was told ahead of time what the right thing to do was and objectively decided to be disobedient. But then wanted God to accept it as if it was right. No. Because you know why? At the end of the day, deciding what is right and wrong is never up to humanity. It's always been up to God. And it's not our place to dictate to the God of creation what is right and wrong. It's our place to get in line and obey. But so, and I just need you to see this, this is literally the first born generation of all of humanity, and we're still suffering the same problem today. We still want to define for ourselves and then make God accept what we've decided is right and wrong. Cain had the same problem. It's not a new thing. Right? This is not a new thing we've created. Self-definition. No. He says, then the Lord said to Cain, why are you angry? Why are you downcast? If you just did what was right, you'd be accepted. But if you do not do what is right, sin is crouching at your door. It desires to have you, but you must rule over it. Remember we talked about this word in chapter 3. This desire here is the desire to dominate and control. Sin is crouching at your door. It desires to dominate, control, and direct your actions, and you must rule over it. How do I know that Cain is struggling to be obedient? Because his actions say so. Because his actions show that he's not able to obey God. Now we look at verse 8. Now Cain said to his brother Abel, let's go out into the field. Here's another thing that you're going to miss reading this in English. This word said right here. It sounds like Cain is just off the cuff going, hey bro, how about let's go check out the back 40 today? What do you think? It sounds very innocuous. It sounds very gentle. In the Hebrew, that word means to argue with. Cain argued with Abel. Bro, let's go take it outside! That's a little bit more street, but it's a little bit more to the context. This word said here doesn't just mean off the cuff. I'm sorry Abel, would you like to take a Wanda through the grass? This word really implies that he's fighting, that he's arguing, that he's getting into verbal combat with his brother. Well, why would Cain, so now let's think it through. Why would Cain be angry and upset and fighting with his brother? Because his brother's offerings were accepted by God Almighty and Cain's weren't. And so what is he? Jelly. He's jealous. You know what I don't get? He's jealous of his brother who chose to be obedient when Cain chose to be disobedient. And so now he's getting in a fight with his brother who was already obedient. Let's go take it outside. Then while they were in the field, Cain attacked his brother Abel and killed him. This would be considered premeditated murder in our society today. We had a verbal altercation. Dan, let's go take it outside. Boom, Dan kills Pastor Bill. If you saw those, right? You all thought it was going to go the other way around, didn't you? You all thought the pastor was going to jack up the usher in church. Right? You guys see that Dan and I get in a fight? You are a verbal altercation. It's really heated. We're both really angry, red in the face more so than he is right now. Right? Then we go outside and then you come outside and there's Pastor Bill's dead body in the parking lot. That would be premeditated murder. Somebody would need the usher bail money fund for sure. This would still be a crime today. That's what I want you to see. I mean, yes, I want it to be jovial murder is not a funny thing. It's not a joke. But that's what happened today. Is Abel is the target of his brother's jealous rage? So, I got another question coming in. We don't see where God told them to give so what they gave showed what they thought of or their relationship with God. Yes, whoever asked that question. Yes, absolutely. We don't see where God gave the instruction for the offering. We know that God gave the instruction and must have given the instructions because God was there to correct Cain when he did something wrong. If there's a correction, that means there's a previous established lesson. So, whoever asked this question, you're totally right. What they gave to God illustrated where they put God in the importance in their life. Abel said, God, you're totally going to get what's first. Cain said, no, I'm going to take what's first, God. You can have whatever's left. But it is absolutely the priority of relationships. So, gold star for whoever had that one. So, Cain decides to take his brother outside. They go to the back 40. He kills him. Now, look at verse 9. This should sound very reminiscent of last chapter. Then the covenant-making God says to Cain, where is your brother Abel? Again, let me ask the question. Does God need to know the answer? No. Does God already know where Abel is? Yes. So, why does God ask the question? It's teaching moment. It's teaching moment. Same as in the garden, right? Adam, where are you? Who told you you were naked? God already knows the answer. The only reason the omnipotent God asked the question is to teach the non-omnipotent one, the human, and give the opportunity for repentance. Just like a parent with a toddler. Did you get into the animal crackers while there's animal cracker dust all on the floor, right? Doesn't take a genius to figure out. But why are you asking the toddler the question? Because you want to give them the opportunity to have integrity, to be honest, to own up to, hey, yeah, you did that. And you know what? Most parents would see that as a sign of a repentant heart. Where do you think we got it from? Our creator who made us in his image. So, where is your brother Abel? Where is your brother Abel? Does not mean God does not know. That it will be a common accusation that the Bible claims that God is omniscient, but we have examples where God doesn't know stuff. This question doesn't say that God doesn't know it. It says that God asked. Why does he ask? And then look at Cain's answer. I don't know. Sounds very similar to his daddy, doesn't it? Who told you you were naked? God, that woman you gave me. Right? He walks over Eve real fast. Just like his daddy. Here is Cain's heart. I don't know. Do you think Cain actually knew? He totally knew. Dead people don't get up and walk until the end of the Gospel of Luke. I'm glad somebody thought that was funny. I thought a resurrection joke in the middle of Genesis was a good idea. So, when he says, I don't know, this is an objective lie directly to the creator of the world. I don't know. Objective lie. He replied. And then he gets an attitude with God. Am I my brother's keeper? I don't know. Is he my problem? I got to keep up with him too? You don't think I got enough to do, God? I mean, that's why in the verse where it says just said, if you don't understand that he's angry and rageful and jealous, you don't understand why he's trying to buck up at God. I don't know where my brother is. How about you go look for him? Do I have to keep track of him? You don't think I got enough to do? Right? I mean, that's really the attitude in play here. God gives Cain the opportunity to come clean. But he doesn't. Which is super sad. Watch what happens next. Verse 10. Then the Lord, again, covenant God, what have you done? God knew. God knew. Just like the parent with the toddler and the animal crackers. I already know what you've done. I'm giving you the chance to keep our relationship where it is. What have you done? Now, this is what's interesting. Listen. Your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. You don't really get the fact that the ground, the planet, the land, is a giant symbol in the Old Testament without watching the whole story of the Bible from the beginning. The land itself is a part of God's creation. Right? Let's separate the waters from the waters. Let dry ground appear. Then when we get to the Abrahamic covenant. Abraham, go to the land I will show you. Look to the north, the south, the east, and the west. All of this I will give to your ancestors. 400 years after Moses comes Joshua. Joshua, lead the people into the land that I will give you. The land is a huge character and theme in all of the Bible. But it starts here. It starts here. It starts here. Your brother's blood is crying out to me from the ground. Verse 11. Now you are under a curse. Now let me just ask you a simple question. What should the punishment have been for Cain's premeditated murder of Abel? According to biblical law, if you go all the way forward to Exodus, what is God's right hand? What is God's right hand? What is God's right hand? What is God's right hand? What is God's right hand? What is God's right hand? What is God's right hand? What is God's right hand? What is God's right hand? According to Exodus, what is God's rightful punishment for killing and for taking a human life? According to Exodus, what is God's rightful punishment for killing and for taking a human life? Death penalty. Death penalty. I can look forward and see that's how God chose to handle premeditated murder. I can look forward and see that's how God chose to handle premeditated murder. Is God's character changed? No. God is the same yesterday, today and forever. And then I got a question coming in. I'll answer that in just a second. Here's what I want you to understand about this curse. This curse is actually a blessing. I'm going to show you why. The curse is God could have just killed Cain and started all of humanity over. The curse is God could have just killed Cain and started all of humanity over. We see that he did that. It's called the flood with Noah and his sons. God ultimately hits the reset button like y'all jokers. God ultimately hits the reset button like y'all jokers. Reset. Back to level one. God could have just killed Cain and started over. God could have just killed Cain and started over. But he doesn't. Now let me get this question. Did God ever impart to Eve that Cain was not the golden sun? Or does his holier than thou attitude come because she raised him under that sun? Or does his holier than thou attitude come because she raised him under that sun? That's a cool question. What I will say is the scriptures do not say specifically the scriptures do not say specifically that Eve told Cain about the promise. that Eve told Cain about the promise. I can't say yes to that because the text doesn't say it. I can't say yes to that because the text doesn't say it. Could I say you could probably make a pretty good argument for the fact that his entitlement led to his jealousy? for the fact that his entitlement led to his jealousy? Yes. I think there's a sociological or psychological argument that could be made there. I can't tell you yes directly from the bible because the text that we're looking at is the only one we could look at and it doesn't say. But that's a really cool thought and I'm probably going to think about that over lunch. So another gold star to whoever that was. Now that you are under a curse and driven from the ground which opens its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. When you work the ground it will no longer yield its crops for you. You will be a restless wanderer on the earth. God chooses not to kill Cain. I see that. Does he have the right to? Absolutely. Would it have been a biblically just punishment for the crime? Yes, absolutely. But instead of taking Cain's life, God does something different. What is Cain's job? What is his occupation? He's a farmer. So when God says the ground will no longer yield its crops, he is taking away Cain's primary occupation. What do you think the primary occupation of a restless wanderer is? Think Bedouins, think people who have to move constantly. What do they raise? Somebody said it. Sheep. God's curse is he makes Cain do Abel's job. This restless wanderer right here is a family who has to travel with a herd. Think Bedouins. Think people who never have a thing. They constantly have to move the herd around and around and around. Rather than kill him, Cain, or God forces Cain to live the life that he stole from his brother. He makes him have, now what was Abel's job? Abel's job was caring for living things, right? Caring for stuff. Instead of taking his life, which he was totally capable of doing, God says no, you're going to spend the rest of your life caring for animals who can't defend themselves. I'm going to make you be the shepherd that you stole from your brother. That's powerful. Because instead of saying, you're done, which God could have done and justly done, he instead, this restless wanderer, this is a person who has to constantly travel around with a herd. And he no longer has a hometown. Let's go to verse 12. Cain said to the Lord, my punishment is more than I can bear. I have looked at this verse in a million different English translations that I can tell you, I just don't like it. Because when you translate it this way, my punishment is more than I can bear. It sounds like Cain is the whining child complaining about the consequences, but never actually recognizing what he did was wrong. The word in Hebrew that is translated punishment literally translates more accurately to evil, to iniquity, to recognizing what he did was wrong. In fact, I translated here, my evil is too much to forgive. My evil is too much to forgive. This word punishment in English, we only look at the consequences of the evil act. But in the Hebrew, it's one thing. The evil thing I did and the consequences that come with it are all one and the same. So this word, in fact, the number one most English translated word for this Hebrew word right here is iniquity. See, if I just change that one word, my iniquity is more than I can bear. Do you hear how that sounds now? Cain recognizes what he has done is wrong. He is remorseful. Now, can I tell you that he's fully repentant? No, I can't. The difference is remorse is an emotional response to sin. I feel bad, I've done wrong. Repentance is an act of turning away from sin and turning towards God. This says my iniquity, my evil is too much and what's interesting is there's no I in this sentence in the Hebrew. It's my evil is too much to bear. Well, who's the one that ultimately has to bear the evil? The person who has to do the forgiving. So I would say that this sentence is probably better translated. My evil is too much for you to forgive. Do you see how that reads totally differently now? I would say that if you look at this and in case anybody ever wants to know, here's just a little side note. If you ever want to look up what the original Hebrew is, you don't have to have a degree in it. I don't. The chess team, not the football team, right? I just use a web search engine. If you go to blue letter bible.org, blue letter bible.org. It's a non-profit company. You can look up the translation of the bible and then you can hit the word inter-linear and it'll actually show you all the Hebrew words that are used in that sentence. The order that they're in in the Hebrew. It's blue letter bible.org. Not a sponsor. They didn't give me any money to say that. Just pointed that out. But when I really, really want to dig it, now granted my bible study software, it does it. But sometimes I just like looking at the whole sentence in Hebrew. And I can't read ancient Hebrew. That's why I use the website. They have their own donation plan. If you like it, you can support them. But that's how I find some of these things out. Is I just look it up and I go, huh. That word with the help of is not in the Hebrew at all. Those words aren't there at all. This word doesn't always translate as punishment. It's actually translated as iniquity or evil. Way more punishments like three times. Iniquity is 120 times. Right? So sometimes those little things, blue letter bible is totally free. Use it if you like it. So, my evil is more than you could forgive. I think it's a better way of translating it. Now look at verse 14. With that is his attitude. Today you are driving me from the land and I will be hidden from your presence. I will be a restless wanderer on the earth and whoever finds me will kill me. Cain is realizing that he has to live with his sin. Instead of just being killed for it. Sometimes living with a lesson is a lot easier. You know, sometimes my children will do something wrong. I don't know, is anybody, they just do something wrong and they are like, just punish me right now. Let's get it over with. You know, why? Because it's super easy that way. It's easier to just, let's just get punished and be done. No, how about you think about what you did. Right, that's the quintessential worst thing that a child ever wants to hear. I really need to think about it. How about, like as a kid ever negotiate with you? How about we just ground me? Let's do a couple of weeks. Right, a couple of weeks, a couple of weeks, going once, going twice. Sold, how about three weeks, three weeks. How about no car? Yeah, uh huh. They are going to try to negotiate with you so they can control the punishment. But it's God who is trying to correct Cain. Not just punish him, not just hurt him. He is trying to correct him. So what does he do? First, you are driving me from the land. Meaning the land is no longer going to yield its crops. And I will be hidden from your presence. Now, where Cain lives is affected. Cain's relationship with God is affected. I'll be a restless wanderer, you're making me be a shepherd like my brother. And whoever finds me will kill me. Now let's ask the question. Where does Cain's wife and all of the people that he's afraid are going to kill him come from? Because up until this point, the Bible is only mentioned for individuals. Adam, Eve, Cain, Abel. We're now down to three because individual number three kills number four. So where does Cain's wife and all of these other like random people that he's afraid of come from? If you have your Bibles, turn one page. Look at Genesis chapter five, verse four. Genesis chapter five, verse four. Here's your answer. And Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters. The Bible doesn't say how many children Adam and Eve actually had. And here's where I have to explain the difference between exhaustive history and redemptive history. The Bible tells us the story of God's love for fallen humanity. It doesn't tell us the story of every single person who lived in every single moment. Cain and Abel are theologically relevant to the story of Christ's salvation, driving us through the story of the Bible. If you just look at how long Adam and Eve lived, and yes, I'll say, I believe that the Bible is grammatical, literal history. So when it says that Adam lived for that long, that's what it says. Do you really believe, do you really believe, and think about this, genetically perfect humans, right? Genetically perfect humans. Eve could get pregnant, I would say, rather easily. She doesn't have any genetic defects to be in the way. She doesn't have to struggle with PCOS, with blood sugar, with cholesterol. I mean, literally, she was created bikini ready on day one, ladies. She didn't grow up. Eve wasn't created as a baby and had to mature on day one. Genetically perfect, Abel to fulfill God's promise of go, be fruitful, and multiply. So where do all the people that Cain is afraid of? They're all his relatives. I can tell you for sure that Cain has to be the firstborn. I can tell you for theologically sure that Abel has to be the secondborn, and that would take me a lot longer because there's a whole lot of first, secondborn juxtaposition in the whole book of Genesis, right? You got Abraham, then Isaac, then Jacob. There's all these brother alliances and these struggles. And what does God always chooses the younger over the older? That's a theme throughout all of Genesis. But then Adam and Eve have tons and tons and tons of other children. And if you could live for, let's just say, 900 years. I forget exactly how old Adam was. But let's just say he lived for 900 years. That means, in theory, Eve could have had 900 direct born children. With time to spare. Right? I mean, I was just going every 12 months, but yeah. Every night she could have. And then because they are genetically perfect, right? We know now from modern genetic studies, the reason incest is so dangerous is you have recessive genetic traits within family units, within relatives, that when they combine, create some really bad combinations. Adam and Eve don't have any of those recessive traits. They are 100% genetically perfect. Do yourself a favor, go look up Mitochondrial Eve. They have scientifically proven that all of humanity goes back to a single female ancestor. And they called her Eve. Why? Because I think it just shows you that the Bible is true. So, who, where does Cain's wife come from? You have two choices. Cain's wife is either his biological sister, another daughter born from Adam and Eve, or the child of one of his biological sisters, or the child of the child of, you see what I'm saying? Like at the end of the day, all the generational tree tracks back to Adam and Eve. But if they live for 900 years, and let's just say Eve had 900 children. There's 900 people who want to kill Cain for killing either their brother or their uncle. That's why he's afraid. And Genesis, what is it? Chapter 5 verse 4. That's where the answer lies. Had other sons and daughters. The Bible doesn't say that Cain and Abel are the only children born to Adam and Eve. In fact, in Genesis chapter 5 verse 4, it says the exact opposite. But because the story of Cain and Abel are going to lead us to the story of Noah, which is going to lead us to the story of Abraham. Do you see how we're looking at a theologically relevant line of descendency? We're not looking at a table of nations. We're looking at a table of nations. We're looking at a table of nations that is a character of everybody. You get the table of nations. You get the genealogies in the New Testament. So I'm running late. Let's just keep going here. 15. But the Lord said, not so. Anyone who kills Cain will suffer vengeance seven times over, and the Lord put a mark on Cain. Typically, the mark on Cain is always referred to believer character, not a non-believer. Why does God not punish him and protect him? Because it's his kid. He still wants to try to retain that relationship with Cain. And then 16, so Cain went out from the Lord's presence. He lived in the land of Nod, east of Eden. Cain made love to his wife, again other sons and daughters, chapter 5 verse 4. She became pregnant, gave birth to Enoch. Cain was then building a city and he named his son. He named it after his son. And this is the end of the Cain narrative. Then we watch the end of 5 and then we get ready for the flood. So what can I tell you? Here's the big takeaway that I want you to see about faith after the fall. God responds to sin with compassion and mercy by drawing Adam and Eve back to him and teaching them through their failure. This is the same way he wants us to respond. Don't think that's the one I put in there. No, here it is. Takeaway. Cain worshiped God, then sinned horribly and was still loved and protected by God. He is an example to us of God's love for his people even when we fail him miserably. Under God's protection, Cain experienced the earthly consequences of his sin. God's love does not automatically erase sins earthly consequences. God's love can absolutely guarantee eternity's consequences. But I think God in his wisdom absolutely allows us to experience the earthly consequences of our sin. Why? So we'll stop doing it. Right? Why do we sin? Because we like it. Why do we not like sin? Because we don't like it. As my mentor would say, it's like eating chocolate covered poison. It looks good. The first bite looks tasty and then you bite into it and here comes the death. Here comes the rot. Here comes the evil. So how do I how do I bring this this to a close? I don't see any other questions coming in. I'll give it just a minute if you have one. But how do I bring the story of Cain and Abel to a close? Here's what I need you to understand. You and I live in the very paradigm that Cain piloted for us. We're all fallen humans. We all live failing God every day. Me included. But what we also have is the same loving creator that Cain had. What we have that Cain didn't have was the death and resurrection of the actual proto evangelum. The actual one who defeated death and sin. You and I have access to a level of God's love that Cain had to look forward to. That you and I get to look back on. The resurrection of Jesus stands as the single exclamation point to all of history. That Jesus was God. And that means if Jesus was God and he raised from the dead, that means what Jesus taught is true. And Jesus said, I am the way the truth and the life and no man comes to the Father except through me. You and I get that promise today. Cain had to live looking forward to a Messiah. You and I have access to that very Messiah right now. So here's what I want to ask. I want to ask you whether you're watching us online or whether you're here on campus, I want to ask you to fill out a connect card. So as the ushers head to the back and get ready to take our offering, worship team, you guys come on up. If you're joining us online you can go to catalyst302.com slash connect. If you're here in the room you can scan this or scan the code on the handout that you were given. My question today is, how's your relationship with God? I was originally gonna ask, how Cain do you feel today? But hopefully nobody's harboring murderous thoughts. If you are, please come up for prayer after service. We'll talk about it. Gary, just make sure the security teams on standby for that conversation. I believe every one of us needs to take a step towards our relationship with Jesus every single day. I believe that to be true. I've experienced it in my own life. Some days I feel like I am barreling towards God. I am driven by the Holy Spirit. The train is moving at 60 miles an hour. Nothing's in my way. And then I wake up the next day and I'm like, oh this is what that feels like. Whoo! And I feel like I'm climbing Mount Everest with no oxygen and a hundred pounds on my back. Have you ever felt that way? It's okay to admit we live in a fallen world. You know what's not okay to admit? Defeat. Because if you have Christ in your life, you are fighting from a place of victory. You're not fighting for victory. Jesus already won. That's what the cross and the resurrection is all about. Jesus already defeated sin. Jesus already defeated death. Jesus already defeated the grave. You don't have to do it on your own. But you do have to learn from Cain and stop trying to do it your own way. You've got to get on board with God's plan. So I'd like to ask you to fill out your connect card. Let me know what's your next step today. If you have a question, maybe you need to talk. Maybe you need to just let me know. Pastor, I really like to have an appointment. I've got something struggling with. That's why I like using the connect card. It's because you can contact me privately. You know, I'm not gonna ask you to come forward. I'm not gonna ask you to have to be embarrassed in any way. And if you're joining us online, you need to understand, those connect cards go right to my phone. You have the same level of access to me as the nice people here in the room do. You just don't smell as good as they do. So ushers, if you guys would come forward, we also, as you fill out your connect card, we have the opportunity to give to the Lord this morning. I got to ask the obvious question. Are you giving God first? Are you giving to God your leftovers? Because that was Cain's problem, right? Do we put worshipping God by giving offerings to him first priority or do we merely put God at the end of the budgetary line item? And if everything else goes, you know, and I've got my bills and I've got my Amazon spending lists and I've got my many penny money and everything else. Here God, here's the leftover change from my McDonald's order. That's the Cain attitude. Or Lord, I love you enough and you have blessed me so much. I put you first. I make you my priorities. That's the attitude that God accepts. So let's pray as we give to the Lord this morning. Heavenly Father, I thank you that you are a risen Savior, that in your resurrection we find life, we find freedom, we find the filling of the Spirit and an inexhaustible joy in relationship with you. Lord, transform us from the inside out. Make us a new, as your scriptures say, a new creation. Lord, we give to you today from the first of what you've given us. We give to you as our priority, as our creator, our sustainer, and our risen Savior. Jesus, we worship you in your awesome name. Amen.