Well, good morning and welcome to Catalyst. See, there's a couple people that had their Wheaties this morning. That's great. Good morning. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us for worship today. I'm the pastor here at Catalyst. It's my privilege to be able to teach you from the word of God today. So I finished getting myself set up. Here at Catalyst, we're about one thing, and that is loving people to life change. That's right. So if you are here and you're a part of our service this morning, whether you are joining us on campus or you're watching online, this church loves you. But there is a but. We love you enough that we don't want to leave you where we find you. I believe that every single person, every day, can grow closer to Jesus Christ, whether it's a small step or a large step, whether it's a half step or a quarter step. Every day we can learn something new in our relationship with Jesus. And that's my privilege to do this morning as we continue our teaching series entitled In the Beginning. Now if this is your first Sunday with us, then today's sermon is going to be a little different than perhaps you're used to. So this series is a little different because it is an interactive sermon series. And what I mean by that is the ushers should have handed you a handout while you were on your way in this morning. If you'll look on the left column of that handout, you're going to notice there's a line that's been highlighted in yellow. That is for you to be able to ask questions. As we go through the sermon text today, you can scan with your phone. That will take you to a little web page where you can fill in the question. The question will go to the back. My wife and Ms. Donna, our secretary, they've got their laptops in the back there ready to receive your questions. And then they'll put them up here on my iPad screen so that I can include your questions as we walk through the text. So while everybody's getting themselves together, let me go ahead and tell you what the title of this morning's message is going to be. In the beginning, the shared consequences. And the text that we're going to look at this morning is Genesis chapter 3 verses 7 through 13. Genesis chapter 3 verses 7 through 13. Now, on the back of your handout, I've given you a little bit of an outline of chapters 1, 2, and 3 from the book of Genesis. Chapter 1 teaches us that God made everything. Chapter 2 teaches us how and why God made man. And chapter 3 teaches us what happened to all that God made. So that's how we understand the first three chapters of Genesis being put together. Here's the key thought that I want everybody to walk away with. The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for us to understand God's relationship to humanity. They set the theological stage for how you and I will understand our relationship with God and ultimately God's relationship with all of creation. So first, let's go ahead and turn to Genesis chapter 3. And I want to read to you verses 7 through 13. And then I want to jump back into the text as we start walking it through. If you happen to be joining us online, you can also ask your questions. If you go to catalyst302.com slash beginning or click on the homepage where it's in the beginning, the question form is right there on our website as well. So this is Genesis chapter 3 beginning to read in verse 7. Then the eyes of both of them were opened and they realized they were naked. So they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings for themselves. Verse 8. Then the man and his wife heard the sound of the Lord God as he was walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And they hid from the Lord God among the trees of the garden. So the Lord God called to man, where are you? He answered, I heard you in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked. So I hid. And he said, who told you you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree I commanded you not to eat from? The man said, the woman you put here with me, she gave me some fruit from the tree and I ate it. And the Lord God said to the woman, what is this you have done? Now I want to stop there because there's a lot that happens in these opening chapters of Genesis and I want to make sure that we have the time to talk it through. So let's just bring ourselves up to speed, right? Genesis chapter 1, God creates everything. Genesis chapter 2, it is not a second creation story. And most people get that wrong. Genesis 1 and Genesis 2 teach us different things. We saw that because in your Bibles that word Lord, capital L-O-R-D is in chapter 2 but it's not in chapter 1. That's because theologically we're relating to the covenant nature of God. The covenant nature of the mosaic God who gave the law, who ultimately sent a Messiah is the same covenant making God who made the world and made you and I. Then in chapter 3, the world literally moved to hell in a basket because now sin has entered the world. Death has entered the world. And here we are watching it happen as we played out. Last week we looked at the first six verses and we saw how creation was good but then Satan tempted them not only to question God's word but to question God's character. And now today we pick it up in verse 7, then the eyes of both of them. Eyes of both of them. So you've got to let go of the commonly accepted idea that Eve sinned first and that somehow in her sinful temptress state, Eve then tempted Adam. That is false. We saw it last week. And they sinned he who was with her. They sinned together. Men, that's why you guys got a little tougher end of the stick last Sunday when we saw that Adam stood silently by as his wife was tempted and did not stop her, did not stand up to the enemy. We pick it up here in verse 7, then the eyes of both of them were opened. Now remember I told you I believe in a literal reading of scripture but that doesn't mean I believe in a wooden reading of scripture. And here's a great example that I can point out. When we read verse 7 and it says, then the eyes of both of them were opened. If you were to take this in a very woodenly literal sense, then you would have to under assume that they were blind until verse 7. But that's not really what Moses is saying, right? I don't believe that the text is supposed to have a say that Adam and Eve were placed as perfect human beings in a perfect garden provided for by God and yet they were unable to see anything. No, so then we have to ask ourselves what is the change? What is the change? Then the eyes. So the eyes are not their physical natural eyes because they're able, I mean we saw that when God made creation, He made it beautiful to look at and good for food. If Adam and Eve were blind in chapters 1 and 2, what was the entire point of making creation beautiful to look at? Right? So what is this? What is this eyes that are open? This is not their physical eyes but this is their knowledge, their understanding, their understanding of their world in a single moment of explosive growth. They now know about evil. And here's the other thing. And the eyes of both of them. So they both gain this knowledge of evil at the same time and then they both respond to it and realized, right? That's why I said there's a lot in this sentence. First, the eyes, the knowledge of evil. Second, it happens to both of them at the same time. And third, they respond the same way. So what is their response? They realize they were naked. Now in one sense, I already got my first question. Since Adam and Eve did not have knowledge of good and evil, do you think Eve understood there would be consequences to not doing what God said? Fantastic question. Yes. I absolutely think Eve understood there would be consequences. Do I believe that Eve understood all the depth of the consequences? No, I don't. I think at that point, you're trying to read something into the biblical characters that you and I would not hold ourselves accountable to today. Can you realistically understand all that a single consequential act will have 2,000 years after you're gone? 4,000 years? 6,000 years? No. Do I believe that Eve understood? Yes. And here's why. Last chapter, when we looked at Satan's words and how he tempted her, what did Eve get her to do? I mean, Satan got Eve to question God's word and God's character, which means she understood God's rules. Does that mean you and I understand everything about God's rules today? No. I'll be honest, I don't. Is that okay for the pastor to say on a Sunday morning? Sometimes God is confusing. Or maybe I just need to admit sometimes His ways are higher than my ways. So do I believe they understood? Yes. Do I believe just like a child being told not to touch the stove, do I believe the child has the full weight and knowledge of the pain and the damage that the stove will cause to their skin and their dermis? No, I don't. All the child needs to understand is don't touch that thing. It's bad for you. And I'm your parent and I know better and I know what's good for you and I know what's bad for you. And that's why Satan had to get Eve to question God's character. Next question. Did they feel ashamed of their nakedness because of each other or God? Gold star. Somebody, whoever that was, gold star. This word naked right here has two different meanings. And in English, it means exactly the way we read it, non-clothed. And were they non-clothed? Yes, they were. But in the Hebrew, this word also means exposed or without proper covering. So now on a physical level, we can understand they were exposed without proper covering. But the question still remains, within a marital relationship, is proper covering necessary? Yes, you're totally right. So let's follow here. If in the marital relationship, proper physical clothing and covering is not necessary between husband and wife, who are the fig leaves really hiding from? Yes. This word here naked, it does mean exposed without proper covering. And yes, their physical bodies are exposed without proper covering. But any marital couple can see one another coming in and out of the shower or dressing within your bedroom. And it's not uncomfortable. It's not wrong. Because this word exposed here does not only mean exposed to one another. In this moment, their eyes are opened. What did they learn about? They learned about the nature of evil. Guess what's the first thing they learned after they learned what evil was? They learned they just did it. They not only learned what evil is when their knowledge of evil is opened, but in the same instantaneous moment, they learned that they are guilty of the evil they just discovered. That's this word here. They are now fully exposed without a proper covering to the one who is the true judge of good and evil. Because in a marital relationship, it is still acceptable for Adam and Eve to be non-cloven together. You know what changed? What's not acceptable that they just realized? This disobedient act that I now understand is evil. I now also understand I am guilty of evil. Remember when I told you the Christian worldview is superior to all others because it is us and us alone who can explain what is the definition of evil, where did evil come from, and what is evil's solution. Atheism can't do that. Pantheism can't do that. Nobody but us can do that. It's one of the most intellectually satisfying things about being a Christian. When somebody says, why is there so much evil in the world? I'm like, let's get a coffee. Let's do this. Why? Because we have a reason and we have the one hope that nobody else has. Guess what? God has a solution for evil. We don't just have to live with it. We don't just have to tolerate it. We don't just have to learn about it and deal with the consequences without the sovereign God who already knew that it would have been better if we didn't need it. It'd be super better if you just trusted me, but now that that's over, guess what? I have a solution. That's why being a Christian is so great. Watch this. They realize that they are naked and exposed without a covering, so what? They sew fig leaves together and made coverings. Again, who are the fig leaves for? They're for God. They're not for one another because they're married. Remember, we saw that at the end of chapter two. The father of the bride brings or the father brings his daughter, presents to the husband. The two become one, feel no shame. If they felt no shame at the end of chapter two, and this is where I think in our Americanized, over sexualized culture, we immediately see naked, we think pornography and we've got to cover it up. But that is not the theological nature of what's happening here because Adam and Eve are, I mean, Adam and Eve had children, a lot of children. They eventually were non-clothed together in order to have babies, right? So this covering is trying to cover over the evil actions they just learned that they did, not the fact that they're not permitted to be unclothed with one another. But the problem is now that sin has entered the world, even the nakedness creates. Now here's the other thing. People want to ask, was Adam tempted to sin seeing Eve's naked body? You know what I'm going to tell you? No. You know why? Because I'm allowed to see my wife when she changes, and that's not considered sin, right? I'm allowed, as a godly man, I'm allowed to see my wife in a state of clothing that you are not allowed to see her in. Are we clear? Right? Amen. Amen. And is that a sin for me? No, it's not. Because within any marital relationship, there's no shame. So I can't get on the hook with the idea that the fig leaves were for man's benefit. No. The fig leaves are a poor human attempt at fixing a spiritual problem that our creator told us about, but we wanted to do it our way. Humanity wanted to fix it their own way. So then they sow fig leaves together. Here's what I think is interesting. In two different places in the passage we're going to look at today, Adam and Eve take the very blessed provision from God and twist it to try to cover up their own mistakes. And here's the first one. Where do the leaves come from? The trees. Where do the trees come from? From God, right? We saw that when he made the garden at Eden. He said, and God made a garden. He put all the trees in it with all the food for all the world. They were all out to eat. So what do they do? Apparently they had figs. Okay, great. I'm a fig Newton fan. I can get down on that. So they take the very thing that God had provided and try to use it to hide from the very thing that God said, do not do. So this made coverings. This is a human attempt to overtake a spiritual failure. So now let's move on to verse eight. Then the man and his wife. Notice all of the verbs in this passage are all the two of them together. It's not just, oh, the wife did that or oh, the man did that. No, the man and his wife heard the sound of the Lord God. They heard the sound. So let's just think this through logically. If you hear the sound of someone walking, are they a physical presence or are they a spiritual presence? Physical. They have to be a physical presence in order for their footsteps to make sounds. So you remember a few weeks ago when we talked about what a theophany is or even better what a Christophany is? So let's just review our theology, right? As Christians, we believe that God is a Trinity. He's got the father, God the son and God the... Yeah, just make sure everybody knew about him. That's good. God the father, God the son and God the Holy Spirit. All of them are co-eternal. All of them are eternal means. So that means even before Jesus was incarnate and born to Mary at the Christmas story in the New Testament, as God the son, he's always eternally existed. And I'm here to tell you, he has shown up in multiple places in the Old Testament. Here's the first one. And how do I get there? Because all throughout scripture, any time you see the person of God in physical form on planet earth, it's always God the son. Which in the New Testament, we know his name is Jesus. I keep referring to him as God the son because some people have a hard time wrapping the fettuccine noodle around their head that God the son exists in the Old Testament, but we don't call him Jesus yet. We didn't call him Jesus. Technically, we didn't call him Jesus at all. Jesus is an English word, right? Right. He's Jesus, God the son, in physical form, walking through the garden. Now how beautifully poetic is that, that in the New Testament, Jesus is also called the second Adam. That which the first Adam fails to do, the second Adam completes. So here in verse 8, the man and his wife heard the sound of the Lord. You notice all the capital letters there, right? That's right here. The capital letters. That's Yahweh, the covenant name for God. They hear the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden. This is God the son stepping into the creation he has made. Now can I tell you that this is the first time God walked through the garden? No, I can't. It just describes this one time. It doesn't tell me if this was a nightly occurrence. It doesn't tell me if Jesus checked in three times a day. Like it doesn't tell me that. It just tells me that in this moment here in verse 8, the man and his wife hear the sound of God the son, the Lord God, as he is walking in the garden in the cool of the day. So you can get a description of what time of day it is. And their response, they hid from God. Notice this. Among the trees. It's the second time they've used God's very creation to hide from him. God the son. Now, alright, let me get to number 9 and then I'll hit it. So here's verse 9. When the Lord God called to the man. Where are you? So let me ask you the obvious question. Does God know the answer to this question? You're totally sure. Like we're 100% sure God knows stuff. Yeah. God's fully omnipotent. He knows all. Why does God ask a question that he already knows the answer to? Well here's the obvious answer. It's not to learn the answer. Because he knows the answer. So in verse 9, where we see God ask a question that we fully well know. God the son is fully eternal. He's fully omnipotent. He's fully omnipresent. He's fully omnibenevolent. I don't need you to tell me the answer to this question. So what is it that God gains by asking the question? Trust is a little part of it, yes. I would argue that this question is not informational. It is relational. And the reason is, back up for a second to verse 8. I want you to see this. In verse 8, they hear God and they do what? Hide in the trees. They hide in the trees. Now take me forward to verse 9. God says where are you? What is accomplished when Adam answers? He reveals himself. He comes out of hiding. By asking this question, God is not trying to learn something he already doesn't know. He already knows exactly where Adam is. He knew exactly where Adam was yesterday. He knows exactly where Adam will be tomorrow. But by asking the question, he is offering Adam the opportunity to come back to him. God does not go around the tree. Gotcha! Could God do that? Yes, totally. Yes. God in his fully omnipresent form could teleport right behind Adam and go, found you. You're it. But God, the amount of compassion right here in verse 9. God is an all knowing, all loving, all powerful, the only being to rightfully judge good and evil. I just watched my prize tip of very good creation fail miserably and is now hiding from me. And I know where he is. But instead of hunting him down and instilling him with fear, I'm going to stand out in the open. Adam, man, where are you? I think about to the time where my children were little and they used to believe that if you could just pull your blanket over your head that they'd be hiding. Right? I'm sure no one else's children did that. But my children thought it was brilliant. And so they take a blanket and put it over their heads and then they're standing there like they're a hole in air and you can't see them. Do I know where my child is? Yes, absolutely. Could I just walk up and take the blanket off and go, that was silly. You're right there. Yeah, I could. But by asking the question, where are you? Here I am, Dad. Did I scare you? All of a sudden, the relationship between God and Adam is brought closer, not restored. Right? Because we still have a sin problem. We still have a sin problem. That's why, again, I don't believe you can take the first 11 chapters of Genesis as sheer myth because if you give up the fall, you have no need for a savior. So God asks the question, Adam, where are you? My son, show yourself to me. Don't hide from me. I'm still here. This is Jesus. Jesus fully well knows all that he will have to do to fix the sin problem. He doesn't go down, Adam, go, Adam, you just cost me 7 1 2 hours on a Roman cross 4,000 years from now. Give me your allowance. You're done. Right? Did he know that? Yes, he did. Did he know all that he would have to go through and then rise from the grave? Did he know you and I would be here today having this conversation? Yes. But the simple question in verse 9 to me illustrates the compassion of God in the midst of sin. Adam, where are you? Come out from hiding from me and talk to me. Then we get to verse 10. Now Adam answers by answering. He's stepping out of hiding. Adam says, he answered, I heard you in the garden and I was afraid. Scripture does not give us another portrait or another instance of where Adam in a pre-fall context walked with God. The only reason I can tell you why I think God would have at least had to walk through the garden one extra time is because Adam related the sound to the presence of God. Had he learned that if it didn't happen before. Again, am I telling you it's certain? No, but Justin, I feel like it's a decent logical inference. We can say that Adam had experience walking with Jesus in the garden in a pre-fall state. He had a relationship of honesty and integrity and godliness and all these wonderful things. Can you imagine? You go on a date night and you walk with Jesus. Not just, oh we're with Jesus. Jesus, take the wheel. No, I mean the literal, literal constitution of God the son is walking with you through the most perfect garden you've ever seen. All the fruit is just ready to pick and eat. Can you imagine that kind of relationship? That kind of openness? That kind of spiritual relationship with your creator who not only created you, but he created your spouse and now the two of you spend time together with him. And then all of a sudden we go from this beautiful shared blessed relationship to, oh that's God, girl we gotta hide. I don't know about you. I take, no you go over there. I'm over here. Right? So in one instance there are two things that I think we learn from verse 10. Again, we hear that means the God the son in a physical constitution walking in the garden, but all of a sudden the response to God's presence changes. Has anybody ever come home, any parent, have you ever come home and you greet your child and you can just pick up on the fact that something's off? You know what I'm saying? You're like hey dad. Say that again. You can tell before you ever know that the relationship has changed. God knows the relationship has changed, but he still gives Adam the chance. And Adam fesses up to it in verse 10. I heard you in the garden. I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid. I know you're here. My response to you is now no longer one of joy, but one of fear because I now know stuff that I didn't know before I ate from the fruit. And because of that, I'm going to try to fix it on my own. I can't tell you the number of people that I've met that do this to God over and over and over. You fail. You know you failed. You know you screwed up. But rather than come out from hiding and come back to the creator, who by the way knew you would fail before you got up that morning. We hide. We fear coming back to church. We fear talking to our Christian friends. We fear our failures being exposed because for some reason we believe that God's not bigger than our failures. I'm here to tell you this is the single biggest failure in all of humanity. Like I love you, and I love you, and I'm sure there's sin in your life. But your sin didn't scar all of creation. So let's just put yourself on par. We're not as bad as Adam. You know what I'm saying? Makes me feel a little bit better. Thank you, God. You're not as bad as your first kid. Got it. Alright. So verse 10, I heard you in the garden. I'm afraid. I'm going to hide because again I was naked. I'm now exposed. I have no covering. I am guilty for the actions that I've done. Verse 11, and he said, who told you? Now again, just like the first question, does God know the answer? Yes, he does. He totally does. God's omnipotent. So why does God ask the question? I have a lot of people who like to look at this story and say, God, your God's not omnipotent or he wouldn't have to ask. Completely looks over the fact that sometimes you ask a question you know the answer to because your goal is not the answer itself. Your goal is the relationship with the person you're talking to. So who told you? So now what has God accomplished through this question? Who told you that you were naked? This is basically giving Adam the opportunity to tell God the source. Even though God already knows. You know, have you ever been with your child and you know they've done wrong and they know they've done wrong and they're trying to give you every possible imaginative, I mean fully creative reason under the sun to why they did wrong but they're not actually wrong? This is not the moment to slap your child, okay? If your kid's next to you, don't elbow them right now. Let me get to the next verse and you can have at it. The relationship is what's in focus here. Yes, did Adam sin? Totally. Adam is guilty. He totally failed. But who told you? My son, where did you learn this information? And then God gives him, have you eaten from the tree? Does God know the answer? Of course he does. What is he trying to say? Adam, be honest with me about what you've done. Show me that our relationship is greater than your failures. How many times has that come up in your life? Listen, we're all going to make mistakes. We're all flawed human beings. My parents are here. You pay for their lunch, they will tell you a million different things that I have done wrong in my life. I guarantee it. You can ask it for alphabetically or chronologically and they're ready to go. I'm a flawed human being. But is our relationship greater than my flaws? If you're married, I'm sure at eventually at some point in your marriage, your spouse gets under your skin. You can pay for my wife's lunch and she'll tell you all about that one. This is cool. I got three people I don't have to pay for for lunch today. But is my relationship with my wife not greater than the times that I fail her and I upset her? Absolutely. But for some reason, we as flawed human beings tend to think that when we fail, we are no longer worthy of God's love. And so then I'm going to hide from him and I'm going to create my own mechanisms to keep me away from him. I'm even going to take the very things he's given me in my life and I'm going to use them to put a barrier between him and me. And keep in mind, what did the fig leaves also do? They put a barrier between Adam and Eve's most intimate moments. Right. Somebody. Yeah. Sin did not only affect creation's relationship to creator, it also directly skewed Adam's relationship with Eve. Those parts of which that they were meant to be shared fully and equally were now hidden. So sin skewed their marriage and their relationship with the creator. Verse 11. Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from? Guys, we're really going to screw it up here. Let's take a look at verse 12. Right? Right? The woman... I can't even read it. The woman you put here with me. She did it. Right? Just take that one in for a minute. Right? Now let me ask you a question. Who's God blaming in this verse? No, who is Adam blaming in this verse? He's blaming God. It's really funny when you read it. But the woman is not the active subject of the verb. The woman you put here, he's blaming God for his own sin through throwing his wife under the bus. Like call the Greyhound, it doesn't run over Eve. But Adam is framing it in such a way that it is God's fault that he sinned. Anybody ever done that before? Well, you know what? If God didn't want me to sin, he wouldn't... No, God doesn't want you to sin. Man up and get over it. Right? In this first instance, I call this the blame game. Right? So Adam is going to blame Eve, and then Eve is going to blame the serpent, and then next week we're going to look at the individual consequences that happened to both Adam and Eve. But here, the man, in the Hebrew, this word right here is Adam. A-D-A-M. It literally means the only male human. The man, the woman you put here with me, she gave me some of the fruit from the tree and I ate it. Now here's the question. Is Adam's statement a true statement? Yes, it is. Right? They were there. Adam, and we read, she ate and she gave some to her husband who was with her. So Adam's not lying, but he's not right. He's not lying, but he's not right. Because he's conveniently left out the fact that he silently stood by while his wife was tempted into sin. He's conveniently not telling God Almighty, he's not telling Jesus that I was there the whole time. Why? Because he's conveniently taking a nice big step back and throwing Eve under the giant bus. But by throwing Eve under the bus, he's really saying, God, why did you give me this woman? And just think about it all together. God, creation's very good with Adam. It's not good for man to be alone. I will make an azer, an equal helper partner. All of these things, Eve was made perfect for Adam. And the very moment he fails and he understands the depth and weight of evil, the first thing he does is throw his partner under the bus. Keep in mind, she's the only woman on planet Earth at this point. So Eve is representative of all of female humanity. And Adam is representative of really all humanity, but specifically in this verse we'll just say he's representative of all males. Man, how many times have you thrown your wife under the bus because you couldn't man up that it was actually your failure? Wives, that's the moment to elbow your husband. If it was yesterday, elbow him in the face. Humanity has a sin problem. And it's not just the fact that we have a problem with sin. We have a problem admitting we have a problem with sin. We have a problem being honest with ourselves that we actively sin instead of just passively. Okay, I got a question. All of this happened after the fall of Satan for trying to be God. What's the timeline for that? Osei's a great question. Here's what I can tell you. The book of Psalms tells us that the heavenly host marveled at God's creation. So angels had to be created sometime before humanity because humanity creation was very good once Adam and Eve were made on the sixth day. But they also angels had to fall before Genesis chapter three because Satan is in the garden. So the best I can tell you, and again, this is a calculation because the Bible doesn't give us the ye olde timeline of when creation, when angelic creation was. Because the Bible is not written for angels. The Bible is written for you and I. The Bible is written for humanity. So what I can say is, yes, without a doubt, chapter three happens after the angelic fall. I would probably say the angelic fall has to also happen sometime after Genesis 1-1 because Genesis 1-1 is when God created everything. Now, angels are spirit beings. It is totally possible for them to live out of a 40 space time universe. So we, Victor, if you and I want to go down that road, we could debate whether angels need 40 space time to exist or not. And that'd be a super fun conversation. But I'm going to go ahead and say my opinion is the angelic creation and fall has to happen after Genesis 1-1, but before Genesis 3-1. OK, so we get to verse 12. The woman put here, she gave me. Yes. But Adam conveniently leaves out that he was here for the whole temptation. He listened to the entire time that God's character was being questioned. Listened to the entire time that God's word was being questioned. And at that moment, before they actively ate from the fruit, they didn't have evil. They didn't have a fallen nature. Adam had the spiritual authority to tell Satan to go pack sand. But he didn't. Conveniently, he left all of that out when talking to his father. How many times do you and I do that? Right? We recount the details of a story where we're probably got some guilt in it, but it's way easier to blame that. You know, that camera guy you put in the church, he did that. Doesn't matter that he was working off of my instructions. Doesn't matter that Pastor Paul and I already told him what to do. Right? How many times do you and I still do that today? We look at our sin and we're going to blame somebody else or we're going to straight up blame God. I can't tell you the number of times I've heard men locked up in lustful addictions say, well, if God didn't want me to sin, he wouldn't have made women so pretty. I'm like, did you want God to make ugly women? Like, I don't know what creation you want to live in. Like, that sounds really weird. I know that when God created creation, everything was beautiful. Do we really, really want to go down that road? Or can we not just learn from this verse? I mean, listen, Adam was hiding behind trees, covered in leaves, trying to do everything he could to cover over. And when he finally comes back to God, he fails one last time by blaming God for his own sins and then throwing his wife under the bus for it instead of saying, Father, I failed you. Where do we go from here? See, he was locked up in the failure, not in the future. And I find that happens to me a lot, right? When I make a mistake and then that mistake snowballs and it snowballs into another mistake and then I get locked into my own failures and not remembering that God knew all about my failures before I made the first one. God knew all about my failures before I was born. God knew all about my failures before my grandmother was born and yet loved me and still said, where are you? Where did you learn that? Did you do what I told you not to do? Did you eat from the poison and now you're wondering why you're sick? Well, maybe we should talk about that. But no. Well, God, if you didn't want me to do that, if you did not want me to be so angry, maybe you could have invented something other than turn signals. Right? That's my daily prayer when I get on 95. God, and you know what? My wife will point out it's the most hypocritical thing because I always forget to use turn signals. I'm like, oh, look, there's 20 feet. Gas turn. That can make work. Let's look at verse 13. Here we go. This is the last verse for this morning. Then the Lord God covenant making relationship says to the woman. Now she turns to Eve or God speaks to Eve. What is this you have done? Now, again, does God need to know the answer? No, he already knows. So God is now offering to Eve the same relational restoration that he offered Adam. Well, what did you do? I mean, sitting just like a parent with children. He's trying to sit here and let them explain themselves. Keep in mind, this is the very first moment they've known anything about evil. It's like talking to a toddler. They learned about evil and in one moment learned about evil and are guilty of evil. Well, what have you have done? And so then Eve pawns it off again. Well, the serpent deceived me and I ate. Interestingly, is this sentence a true statement? Yes, it totally is. But is it right? No. She could have said I ate and the sentence will be over. She's still trying to shift the blame the same way her husband does. Still trying to shift the blame away from their own failures. Even while we're watching God have patience beyond patience. Where are you? Did you eat from that tree? What did you do? Can we talk about it? This is the same Savior who 4,000 years later will die on a cross to fix this very mistake. And he knew about all of that the day before Adam and Eve ever ate the fruit. That's why I think it's so important to spend the time in these passages so we can see the depth of God's love for humanity. If you write off creation and the Garden of Eden, the fall and even the flood. If you write all of that off as biblical mythology, you have no foundation for a loving, merciful God. Yes, God saves his children from Egypt. With the 10 plagues, the Prince of Egypt, great music, great movie. But the depth of God's love starts here with the very first human failure. So what are the shared consequences here? Let me give you the takeaway and show you how can we put this in our pocket and take it home with us today. God responds to sin with compassion and mercy by drawing Adam and Eve back to him and teaching them through their failure. This is the way he wants to respond to us. We must choose to hide from him or come to him. You and I are left with the same choice that Adam and Eve had on that very first day when sin became a thing. They both learned about evil. They both learned they were guilty of evil. They both hid from God. They both tried to cover it up and make it over themselves. And then finally when faced with God, they both didn't take responsibility. I see that pattern play out an awful lot in people's lives when it comes to sin. Whether that sin be the big public sins that everybody gets to see or the quiet little heartfelt sins that you keep tucked in your pocket drawer that nobody else knows about. Do you try to hide it? Do you try to justify it? That's a cool word. Yeah. Do we try to justify our own sin? Or can we simply in prayer approach the throne of God's grace and say, Lord, I ate. I failed. You know what's great? You know what God's going to say? You're going to walk up to God. You're going to fall to your knees. You're going to say, God, I failed. You know what he's going to say? I know. I know. I knew. I knew before you ever did it. And I love you. Yes. Sin will always have consequences. And we'll talk about that next week when we look at the individual consequences that both Adam and Eve had. But the reason I spun these six verses away from those is I need you to see that before God brings consequences, he brings compassion. Before God allows the death that is inevitable from the choice of sin. Before the death and the consequences and all the bad stuff that we typically go to right at the fall. Oh, God brought death and God brought deaths. And women have to have painful babies because Eve sucks and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And we blame. God brought compassion. God brought love. God prioritized his relationship through the come out and find me. Come talk to me. And this is the same God who's standing outside the door of your heart right now. And he's waiting for you to stick your head out from behind whatever tree it is that you've been waiting for. To stick your head out from behind whatever tree it is that you've got in your heart that you've decided it's OK to hide behind. Whatever sin issue you don't want to give up. Whatever fig leaves you love too much to let go of. And he's standing in front of your heart and he's saying, but I already know. I knew yesterday. I knew last week. I knew last month. I knew before you were born and I love you. And that's the great loving compassion of God. Yes, sin has consequences. Praise God. He's made an eternal solution for the consequence of sin. But before sins consequences, God still responded with compassion. That's the love of God. So here's what I want you to do. I want everybody to either take out their phone or the connection card that's in the back seat in the chair in front of you. I want to ask you to respond to God's compassion in your life today. If you're watching us online, obviously you don't have the handout that our rushers gave. You can connect with us today at catalyst 302.com slash connect. If you are sitting in this room, you can scan this QR code or the one at the very top of your handout. What is your sin issue today? What is your hang up? What is your fig leaf solution that you're trying to make it by on your own instead of simply stepping out from behind the tree that you're hiding behind and say, God, I'm sorry. I ate and hear him be able to say, I know. Let's talk about it. Who experienced the same love that Adam and Eve experienced? Because God is a loving father who doesn't want you to have to live your life without him. Sadly, so many of us choose to hide ourselves away from God because you know what? I like this pet sin over here. And you know what? This sin juice is really good. And I like this. And believe it or not, we build all of these barriers up that become barriers between our marriages, barriers in our friendships and barriers in our relationship with our leader. None of that is OK. So I want to ask you same question that God asked. Where are you? Just between you and God, where are you? Are you hiding or are you waiting? Are you slinking back or are you walking with him? Because you don't have to be perfect. He's not expecting you to be perfect. He's expecting you to be humble. He's expecting you to be open. He's already created the perfect solution. You don't have to do that. But we do have to get over trying to fix it ourselves. So as you guys finish up your connect card, I'm going to ask our ushers to come forward. We're going to collect our tithes and our offerings this morning. Got another big celebration as soon as we're done with that. We have another baptism to celebrate. So Zion, while they're going to be singing, you and I are going to pop upstairs. So I want to pray and I want to ask you to give to the Lord this morning. Not because you're trying to buy your way out of sin. That doesn't work. You don't have enough money. The world does not have enough money to buy our way out of sin. Praise God, he's already created the sin solution. We just need Jesus. And it was the same Jesus in the garden who called Adam and Eve out from behind the tree is in your heart right now saying, child, come back to me. So let's worship the Lord this morning. Heavenly Father, I thank you and praise you for your grace and mercy. Lord, thank you that you respond in compassion before giving our consequences. Lord, draw each of us back to a place where we are honest and open with you. We worship you this morning with our tithes, with our offerings, not because we're buying your forgiveness, but because we are worshiping your greatness. Lord, we worship you because of who you are and what you've done. Because of the beautiful name of Jesus, you're powerful. Because of your goodness, we love you. And we worship you in Jesus' name. Amen.