Well good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I have the privilege of being able to teach the Bible here at Catalyst Community Church. Here at Catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change. Loving people to life change. So if you are here and you're a part of this very special service today, whether it be on campus or you're joining us online, thank you for becoming a part of the Catalyst family. We love you. But we love you enough to tell you we don't want you to stay the same. I hope that you learned something today. I hope that I can show you something in the Word that maybe you haven't seen before that will help you on your journey to become more like Christ. Now today we're starting a brand new teaching series. One that I am fairly excited about because I get to do something that I have wanted to do for some time but never been able to do before. And that is be able to take questions while I preach a sermon. So let me give you the basic way today is going to go down, especially for those of you joining us online. For those of you who are on campus, we've got a handout this morning as you came in. I want you to look at it because there's an extra place for you to engage today. At the top of your handout, that's the one where you use the connection card. But we highlighted one. It's on the left column. You can see that it says in the beginning questions. There's a special QR code this morning that you can use if you are here on campus to ask a question. Those questions are going to go to the back and Ms. Donna and my wife are in the back. They're going to put all the questions together and they're going to feed them to me right here on my iPad so that I can make sure that I answer as many questions as possible. So you're going to want to have your phone out. You're going to want to be able to engage. For those of you who are joining us online, Paul, did we put the link in the description by any chance? No, he's working. If you want to go to catalyst302.com slash beginning, there is a button on our webpage for you to be able to ask questions. So the way this series is designed is we are going to walk through the first four chapters of Genesis. Genesis 1, 2, 3, and 4 each week. And I've got my notes here and we're going to walk through it, but we're also going to take some rabbit trails. And if you have a question about something in the text of Genesis 1, 2, 3, or 4, then I want you to be able to ask that question on that week and I'm going to try to roll the question into my sermon. Now somebody's thinking what happens? Is it really going to go that long? No. We're still going to call it the right amount of time. If we only get through the first half of the chapter this week, then we'll pick it up next week. It's important that everybody can learn everything. So today's going to be what I'm calling an interactive teaching series because you've got to be able to be a part more than just listen. I'm going to read the text and I want you to be asking yourself, huh, you know, I've always wanted to know, fill in the blank. I just need you to give me a little bit of permission. You might ask me a question I don't know the answer to and that's why I'm taking all the questions electronically because when we're done, I'm going to be able to write all of the answers to the questions, publish them on our website, and share them with the whole church. So I may not be able to answer every single question this morning, but I guarantee you I will get the best answers and we'll publish them and we'll be able to share them. So with that said, let me go ahead and give you the title of today's message. It's called In the Beginning. Here it is. In the Beginning, Creation of the Cosmos and the Preparation of Earth. So these are the two things we're going to be looking at today. Creation of the Cosmos and the Preparation of Earth, Genesis chapter 1 verse 1 to chapter 2 verse 3. And the reason I did that is because the first three verses of chapter 2 are really more related to chapter 1 than chapter 2. We can't really go back now and change the way the chapters are written because it's been hundreds and hundreds of years and so many people have printed Bibles. But thematically, these three verses over here in chapter 2 have more to do with chapter 1 than they do with the rest of chapter 2. So let me give you the key thought and then we're going to get into the text this morning. Here's your key thought. The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for understanding God's relationship to humanity. The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for relationship between God and humanity. So with that said, let's turn in our Bibles to the very first verses of scripture. This is Genesis 1 1 and I'm reading it in the NIV this morning. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Now the earth was formless and empty. Darkness was over the surface of the deep and the spirit of God was hovering over the waters. And God said, let there be light. And there was light. God saw the light was good and he separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day and the darkness he called night. And there was evening and there was morning the first day. And God said, let there be a vault between the waters to separate water from water. And God made the vault and separated the water under the vault from the water above it. And it was so. God called the vault sky. And there was evening and there was morning the second day. And God said, let the water under the sky be gathered to one place and let dry ground appear. And it was so. God called the dry ground land. And he gathered the waters he called seas. And God saw that it was good. Then God said, let the land produce vegetation, seed bearing plants and trees on the land that bear fruit with seed in it according to their various kinds. And it was so. The land produced vegetation, plants bearing seed according to their kinds and trees bearing fruit with seed in it according to their kinds. And God saw it was good. And there was evening and there was morning the third day. And God said, let there be lights in the vault of the sky to separate the day from the night. And let them serve as signs to mark sacred times and days and years. And let them be lights in the vault of the sky to give light on the earth. And it was so. Verse 16. God made two great lights. The greater light to govern the day and the lesser light to govern the night. He also made the stars. God set them in the vault of the sky to give light on the earth. To govern the day and the night. And to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw it was good. And it was evening and there was morning the fourth day. And God said, let the waters team with living creatures and let birds fly above the earth across the vault of the sky. So God created the great creatures of the sea and every living thing with which in the water teams and moves about in it according to their kinds and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. God blessed them and said, be fruitful and increase in number and fill the waters in the seas and let the birds increase on the earth. And there was evening and there was morning the fifth day. And God said, let the land produce living creatures according to their kinds. The livestock, the creatures that move along the ground and the wild animals each according to its kind. And it was so. God made the wild animals according to their kinds, the livestock according to their kinds and all the creatures that move along the ground according to their kinds. And God saw it was good. And God said, let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness so that they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the livestock and all the wild animals and over the creatures that move along the ground. So God created mankind in his own image. In the image of God he created them, male and female he created them. God blessed them and said to them, be fruitful and increase in number, fill the earth and subdue it, rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over every living creature that moves along the ground. Then God said, I give you every seed bearing plant on the face of the whole earth and every tree that has fruit with seed in it. They will be yours for food. And to all the beasts of the earth and all the birds in the sky and all the creatures that move along the ground, everything that has breath of life in it, I give every green plant for food. And it was so. God saw all that he had made and it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day. Now we roll over to chapter two. Thus the heavens and earth were completed in all their vast array. But the seventh day God had finished the work he had been doing. So on the seventh day he rested from all his work. Then God blessed the seventh day, made it holy because on it he rested from all the work of creating that he had done. That's the opening chapter with a little bit of extra. The opening chapter of God's word today. So here's what I want to do. First I got to make sure my iPad doesn't go to sleep because this is how we're going to get all the questions and that's not going to be very helpful is it? So give me just a second to tell it to not go to sleep anymore. So I am going to begin teaching through the text. So we're going to go back to verse one. If you have questions, all you have to do is scan that little code that's on your handout. The team's in the back. They are ready to take your questions and put them up here and I'm going to try to just dance back and forth. Melanie, if I get too distracted and I end up not seeing that you put a question here for me, you're just going to like wave and throw stuff at me and we're going to have a good time. So here we go. Verse one. Genesis 1.1. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. This is where the word of God opens the entire story of creation. I'm just going to move a little bit because if I have my back to the iPad I'm not going to see your questions. A couple things I need you to see about the opening verse of the Bible. First, in the beginning. When is that? It's in the beginning. Is there anything before the beginning? No, because if there was something before the beginning it itself would be the beginning, right? So here's what I need you to see. This is a really complex sentence if you think about it. Because this says in the beginning, meaning before everything else, at the very first moment of everything, in the beginning God. So what does that say? That says that God existed before the beginning. But how do you have something that exists before the beginning? The only way you can have anything exist before time itself is if this thing is eternal, right? So I've made it four words into the Bible and I have the eternal God who existed before the beginning who then acted. That also means that this God can't be an impersonal force. Impersonal forces don't do things. They don't choose things. They don't make decisions. Only active agents do that. So if I get in the beginning God created, now I have in the beginning, before time, there was an eternal God who created. This is an action of an agent. This is not an impersonal force. This is not the midichlorians came together and they formed the Jedi. That's not how that worked. In the beginning, before there was time, there was an eternal God who was an agent and he created. He acted and he did. And because he did, then the byproducts, so this is the cause and this is the effect. The heavens and the earth. Now in one sense, we are speaking about the heavens above, right? The sky and ultimately the cosmos, the universe beyond and then the earth is what we're standing on. But the heavens and the earth are also a Jewish phrase. And if I can abbreviate that Jewish phrase to the great theological term, everything. So to a Hebrew audience when they read, in the beginning, before all of time, the eternal God acted and created, this you could substitute everything. So before I even make it out of the first sentence of the Bible, the Bible presupposes the eternal God is the active agent who created everything that exists. This is where the Bible's view of everything begins. Now there are some people who will want to say, well yeah, but now we know. That is my favorite phrase that scientists used to use. Now we know. Here, you know what? You know what? Now we know. Now we know scientifically. See, more than let's go 100, 200 years into the past, right? At the time that Jesus lived. So at the time that Jesus lived, the prevailing view of the universe was done by Aristotle. And they believed that the universe was eternal because the universe has just always been here. But the Hebrew scriptures say in the beginning was God is eternal, not the universe. See, every worldview has to pick something that starts everything. No matter who you are, atheists have to pick something that starts everything. Theists, that's who we are. We believe in an eternal and mortal God. We have to believe that something starts everything. Because if nothing did nothing, you get, right. If nothing did nothing, you get nothing. It's the most backwards idea of atheistic thinking. No one did nothing to create everything. Makes no sense. The Bible's explanation is a whole lot clearer. In the beginning, there was an eternal active agent who made an action which men made a creation. And this is where our worldview about the beginning of time begins. The eternal God who existed before everything and is responsible to have created all things. Alright, so now let's go to verse 2. Now the earth was formless and empty. So do you see how fast we moved from talking about everything in the entire cosmos and universe to now we're looking at just one thing. Planet earth. So here's what I want you to understand about the way the universe works. The Bible is theological history. It's not exhaustive history. The Bible's job is not here to tell us the answer to every single question. For instance, Jesus never talked about text messaging. Does that mean that text messaging is not a real thing? No. I use it quite frequently. Does that mean that the Bible doesn't have any principles that might help teach me how to better use that thing? Yes, of course it does. But the Bible presupposes that God is first and then it gives us the answers to the questions to get us where we are going. The verse 1 explains the entire universe. After verse 1, do you notice how the scope now comes down? Now the earth. We just created the entire universe. And there's a whole lot of scientific evidence out there to prove that the entire universe began in a single moment of incredibly dense heat and explosion. It's been called the Big Bang. It's been called the Great Singularity. It's been called the creation event. You notice how depending on what world view you pick, depends on which one of those terms you're going to be comfortable using. But the reality is we now know with scientific fact that the Bible was right in verse 1. There was a single moment where everything came into creation. But then, now we come down to the rest of this opening sentence, the opening chapter is all about planet earth. Now the first question here is what was God's purpose for creating earth and man? That's a great question. It's going to take me the rest of the chapter to answer that question. So what I want you to see is God created the whole cosmos. He is the one responsible for the creation of the But now we're going to limit our focus to only planet earth. Now the earth was formless and empty. Darkness was over the surface of the deep and the spirit of God was hovering over the water. So let's take a couple of things. First, formless. Formless means without detectable shape. It does not mean without shape. So let me ask you a question. If you can't see something, does it still have a shape? Yeah, I got a couple people nodding your heads. You're right. Just because I can't see something doesn't mean it doesn't have a shape. It means I can't see the shape. I can't make out the shape. So when they say now the earth was formless, it means the shape of the earth was not able to be seen. The earth here specifically means the land mass you and I are standing on right now. Right? And we all agree that planet earth has both land and water. Right? We all agree to that. Anybody ever been to the beach where the land and the water meet? It's a really fun time. You get crashing waves, sunburn. It's amazing. So again, it's another interesting thing that this was written thousands of years before Jesus and yet is completely accurate. Our planet has earth and it's formless and empty and darkness was over the surface of the deep and the spirit of God hovering over the waters. So here's what I want you to see. God makes the entire cosmos. He makes the entire universe. And then he focuses on planet earth. And when he comes to focus his creative efforts on planet earth, you are talking about a planet covered in water. Does that mean that there's not actual ground under the water? No. Because I can weed out into the beach and as long as I'm not super deep, I could swim down and see that there's still land underneath the water. Right? People could take submarines and all kinds of cool video gear and we can find that the ocean actually has a floor to it. There is ground under there. So I want you to see the biblical picture. The earth is a planet. It exists. But it is a planet entirely covered in liquid water. That's what this formless means. Imagine a planet that's covered in water. What does the ground look like? Well, here's another question. Does the ground have a shape? No, it does. Just because it's covered in water, doesn't mean it doesn't have a shape. Right? If you think about it, people can map the ocean floor and it has ups and downs and it has a shape. But it's not detectable because that shape is covered in water. That's what this formless means. The whole surface of the planet appears empty because it's completely covered in liquid water. And darkness is over the surface of the deep and look at this. The Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. Who is this? This is the third member of the Trinity. Now, the Trinity as a whole is a doctrine that takes almost the entire scripture to be fully realized. That's why we call the Bible progressive revelation. That does not mean, however, so let me ask you this. If verse one is true and God is eternal, that means that the Holy Spirit and God the Father and God the Son are all eternal. Yes? Yes, that's totally right. That's what that means. Which means God the Father, God the Son and God the Spirit all pre-exist creation as a whole. So here, we get a beautiful picture of the first member of the Trinity and the third member of the Trinity active in creation. If you add to that the opening verses of John in the New Testament, right? In the beginning was the and the word was God and the word was with God, right? So if I take Genesis 1, 2 and 3 and John 1, 2 and 3, I have all three members of the Trinity active in the creation moment. John tells us nothing was made that wasn't made without the sun. So everybody gets planet earth is totally covered in water. Okay, next question. Who wrote the book of Genesis? Moses. Moses is the author of the book of all first five books of the Bible, also called the Pentateuch, like pentagrams got five points, pentagon's got five sides, pentateuch is five books. So Moses is the author of the book of Genesis. So now let me ask you another question. How does Moses know what's going on in creation week? Who's the only person, who's the only alive witness to the active events of creation who could tell Moses how creation went down? God himself. So if Moses is writing down God's account of creation week, is Moses recording eyewitness testimony? Yes, he is. Moses is recording God's eyewitness testimony of the first week of creation. That doesn't mean that Moses is the eyewitness, but it doesn't stop from Moses recording the eyewitness statement. Just as much as if we were to go into court today and I were to have witnessed a traffic accident and I go into court and I testify under oath about what I saw at the traffic accident and the court reporter writes it down. Is the court reporter recording eyewitness testimony? Absolutely. Not the recorder's testimony, the eyewitness' testimony. Here, the opening chapters of the Bible is eyewitness testimony of what happened in the first week of creation. And if I go back to verse one, there was only one eyewitness in the beginning, God. So Moses is the author. Moses does not write the Pentateuch until he comes on the scene. So the entire book of Genesis is being given or told or revealed to Moses by the only person who witnessed all of it, God himself. Alright, so now we go to verse three. And God said, let there be light. Let there be light. God creates the cosmos, then he turns his attention to focusing on planet earth and then the very next act he does is he creates light itself. This is not sunlight, right? I'll go ahead and answer the question because someone's going to ask it. How is there light in verse three if the sun is not created until day four? Here's the answer. Light itself exists apart from the sun. In fact, we know this. We can measure photons and they are a different substance than the sun itself. I will tell you, the Bible is very clear. Light is created on day one. The responsibility to carry light is issued or given to or handed over to the sun on day four. Now, a modern cosmological question is going to go, how can there be light without the sun? That presupposes that the sun is the only possible source of light that could ever exist. And yet a cosmologist will not say that. It's our source of light now. That does not mean it is the only possible solution for light that could ever exist. Because if we use, I mean, how many people have looked at the photographs from the new James Webb NASA telescope, right? Don't we see starlight in other universes? Don't we see light from distant galaxies? So that proves to you right there, the sun is not the only source of light. So the idea that light can't exist without the sun is already false because the sun is not the only source of light that is there. So, God creates light itself and there was light. God saw the light and it was good. Did anybody notice the number of times this word shows up in chapter one? Right? I want you to ask the question. We're going to get to it at the end. What does good mean? It's the most repeated word other than maybe said. Good is like the most repeated word in all of Genesis chapter one. Good for what? Good for who? Good in whose opinion? That's a question. I want you to just take a pin in it, stick it on the side of your brain. Not literally, but right here. Because why is it good is going to be a very interesting question. Okay, question. Why is water and heaven written in the plural sense? Fantastic question. The water is about to be divided and have water and water. And from a Hebrew perspective when we say sky, they mean first the sky that you and I can see, the sky that the birds fly through, but it also includes the night sky, the stars, the elements beyond it. So it includes the sky inside of our atmosphere and the sky outside of our atmosphere. So when it says the heavens, if Moses is looking up at the sky, right, I can see the birds flying through the terrestrial sky of planet Earth, but I can also see the light and the starlight coming through from planets that are outside of Earth's atmosphere. And so that's why you have sky and sky and you have water and water. Next question. Is creation a literal six days or do we use the second Peter reference that says a day is as a thousand years to us? That's a fantastic question. So yes, the second Peter reference says that a day is as a thousand years to the Lord. It doesn't say anything about the fact that a day is as a thousand years to us. So the first thing I need you to ask the question, is the days of Genesis meant to be interpreted literally? Yes. If all you're doing is using the text of the Bible, the word for day is yom, Y-O-M. The word yom is used in multiple ways in scriptures. For instance, my birthday, right? I refer to a day that celebrates my birth every year. The book of Joel refers to the day of the Lord, which is the day to yet come in the future. But we have something else in Genesis 1. Did you notice it was first day, second day, third day. There is nowhere in all of scripture where days are counted with ordinal numbers that is not a 24 hour period. Also, you have the there was evening, there was morning, the day. If there is evening and there is morning, there is rotation of planet earth. Now again, you're going to say, how do we have a day without the sun? I already answered that. The sun is not the only possible logical answer for light. If God himself put light in the middle of our universe and then made the sun responsible for that light on day four, evening and morning tells me planet earth is rotating on its axis here and now, or else there wasn't day one. There had to be a full day. So is there other ways to interpret Genesis chapter 1? Yes, there absolutely is. There is the figurative view that every one of the days is some sort of long chronological age. There's also the framework view that the days have nothing to do with time, but they're about the thematic development of creation. Are there people who hold to those views? Yes, there are. But they have to make exceptions for the way they interpret scripture and then undo those exceptions later. I don't think that's a good way to study the Bible. So what I'll say is this. If we are studying the text of scripture, you cannot get around the fact that these are six literal days. Now, you can choose to interpret them and say well, it was six literal days. Another really popular theory is called the gap theory that there is some inordinate, like random amount of time that exists between Genesis 1 1 and Genesis 1 2. Right? We talked about the cosmos and then God focuses on earth. Schofield was really popular for this theory. There's no biblical evidence for that whatsoever because in the Hebrew it's all one sentence. So even though you're in my Bibles have a verse one and a verse two in the Hebrew, that's one sentence all the way through. He created the cosmos and focused on earth. So the Hebrew scriptures would have no concept to ever read that there are inordinate amount of time between verse one and verse two. So if we are going to surely study the text of scripture, the six days of creation need to be and I say that again, the six days of creation because the seventh day isn't noted to have evening and morning the seventh day. There's some theological debate over the length of the seventh day. Are we all living in God's rest right now? That's a whole different thing. Could the light God created be from his glory? I think that's absolutely great question. Yes. In fact, if we look at when Moses stood in God's presence, what happened? His face radiated the glory. When you go to the New Testament and you look at the transfiguration of Jesus on the mountain with his three disciples, what was there? There was a bright light. Could the light of Genesis 1 1 and 1 2 and 1 3 be the light of God's glory himself? It absolutely could. Does the Bible say that it is? No, it does not. It doesn't. So what I'll say is could that be true? It absolutely could be true. Can I guarantee you that it's true? No, I cannot. It is equally possible that God in his power created a light source and then replaced it with the sun on day four. I can't tell you that didn't take place because honestly this is the only eyewitness testimony we have. There are certain questions that have to go unanswerable. What was the original light source? I think God's glory is absolutely fantastic question. Am I positive that that's it? No, I'm not. All right. So now we keep going. He saw the light and it was good. Remember to ask yourself good for what? And then he separated the light from the darkness. I love this. Keep in mind, Moses is writing this thousands of years before Jesus. Moses did not study modern physics. Do you know what the actual definition of darkness is? By definition. You know how they measure darkness? Somebody said it. The absence of light. Darkness by definition is the absence of light. Darkness does not have its own weight of measure. You know how you measure darkness? In lumens. I mean photography fans know what lumens are, right? Photography fans. Lumens are the measure of brightness. If you look for like an LED flashlight or something like that, it's going to tell you how many lumens it can do. Darkness is measured in lumens because darkness itself does not have a substance. It is only the substance of light that can be measured. There's no way Moses could have known that other than the obvious. When I have light, that's what makes shadows. Do you have shadows when there's no light? No, why not? Because the darkness by itself can't produce a shadow. Only light can do that. So God causes, I would argue right here, this is a wonderful statement that completely aligns with modern physics. The understanding of light. God called the light day and the darkness night. There was evening, there was morning the first day. Remember the focus, planet earth. So planet earth is rotating in a 24 hour axis. We have a single light source that is not the sun, but that does not mean the light source is not sitting in exactly the same place that the sun is sitting. And day one ends, God has created light. He has separated light from darkness. The planet is spinning and here we go. So now we move forward. And God said, let there be a vault between the waters to separate water from water. Here's where your plural waters come in. Again, something else that we know today because we've measured it that I don't think there's any way for Moses to know. What is our atmosphere made up of? Water vapor. You know it's the only thing that protects us from all the solar radiation that comes off the sun? The water vapor of our atmosphere. If the light that God created on day one was the sun, that means planet earth had no protection from the solar radiation until day two. That would have been very harmful to our planet. We know now how harmful it is if we destroy that thing which protects us. So this vault is what you and I call the sky. There is water vapor that surrounds our planet. We call it an atmosphere. We call it this. We call it that. The waters separate water from water. And God made the vault and separated the water under the vault from the water above it and he called it sky. Again, something else that completely aligns with our understanding of the mechanical nature of our planet. There is this giant gap of sky and there is water vapor all the way around our planet that we call an atmosphere. Was the water in the sky more significant than it is now, i.e. the flood? Fantastic question. So this person is asking, is the amount of water vapor that God used to originally create the planet earth more water vapor than it is now? And they're referencing the story of the flood. So in the story of the flood, we learned that it had never rained until the story of the flood. Is it very possible that the atmosphere was actually more than it is now? Yes, that is 100% possible. Is there any evidence to establish this? I would say yes. The first is that when the story of the flood comes, which I will also tell you, I believe is an absolutely historical event. I believe I could prove it. I believe there's wonderful archaeological evidence to illustrate that there was at one point a massive worldwide flood and we'll get into that later in October. The age of human beings immediately decrease after the story of the flood. If the flood is figurative, then you have to explain that and you either have to explain it. What most people will do is they'll explain away the first 11 chapters of the Bible as legend and then when we get to chapter 12 and Abraham shows up, then it's history. I got a really hard time understanding why God gives you 11 chapters worth of legend and fiction and fairy tale in order to then in chapter 12 switch to narrative history. That doesn't make sense to me. What makes more sense is the entire book of Genesis is narrative history. Now someone's going to ask, wait a minute, what happens when the Bible and science conflict? What I'll say is this, I believe Genesis chapter 1 verse 1 stated very clearly God created everything. That means if I study that which he created, I should learn more about it. In fact, all of the major greats who founded the modern scientific movement today were all Christians. Isaac Newton, Kepler, Pascal, all of these giant people that you learn about in the history of science, they were all Christians. The reason they studied nature is they believed nature had an order to it given by an orderly creator. So what happens when we study nature and it disagrees with scripture? What I'll say as a Christian, since I believe God created both scripture and nature, the problem is my understanding. Not the fact that they have to conflict. The question is, could they agree? And yes, I think they do. So was the water more significant on this original atmosphere that was created? Yeah, that's totally possible. Can I prove it to you? Again, no, I can't. It's a good theory. It does have a little bit of evidence in the scripture, but I can't prove 100% certain. So God made the vault, he separated, he called it sky. Then there was evening, there was morning, second day. Another 24-hour rotation of our planet. So then we move on. And God said, let the water under the sky be gathered into one place and let dry ground appear. The water under the sky is what you and I call the ocean, the sea, right? This is the water under the sky, the water above the sky, which could also be called firmament, if you have a Bible that uses the word firmament, it's talking about our atmospheric protection from the solar radiation. Gathered in one place and let dry ground appear and it was so. So now, again, God is focused on land, he's focused on earth, and now he's taken the planet that was totally covered in water, he's pulled some of the water out, given us an atmosphere, and now he's created dry ground. And God called the dry ground land and gathered the water he called seas, and God saw that it was good. Again, I just need you keep focusing here. Another thing I need you to understand about Hebrew writing. When someone names something, like God is naming things, he's naming the sky, he's naming the land, he's naming the water, the act of naming something conveys the authority over it. That's an ancient Near Eastern understanding of this text. So who, like for instance, parents, who chooses the name for the child? Usually mom, right? I mean, let's be honest. My wife gave me a couple choices and she graciously let me pick the one she liked. I get it. Who has authority over her children? Mama bear, right? The act of naming something also conveys the authority over the thing. Now, if we remember that Moses is living in the ancient Near East, there's tons of gods, right? There's a sky god and there's a land god and there's a water god. The opening chapters are showing why the Hebrew understanding of the monotheistic god who rules all is so important because God not only created everything, but he made it and then he named it, which gives him total dominion over it. All right, next question. Did the water come up from the earth if it never rained? Are we talking about, Mel, are we talking about the flood or are we talking about the water that's on the earth originally? It was created on the planet when the planet was made. The planet was created, earth and water, as one unit. So it had never rained yet. God created, when he created the entire cosmos, he created planet earth in such a state that it had water and earth on it from the very beginning. And again, just keep in mind this good because we're going to get to a conclusion I promise will make sense. So now we move forward again. Then God said, let the land produce vegetation, seed bearing plants and trees on the land that bear fruit with seed in it. You're really going to want to remember this description because it comes up again later if you didn't remember. This description is super important. According to their various kinds, and you see that word a lot in Genesis 1, kind. I want you to be very careful. Kind does not mean species. It does not mean genes. It does not mean animals. It does not mean species. It does not mean genus. Kind is a biblical terminology that doesn't have an exact equal equation with our scientific taxonomy today. That doesn't mean that our scientific taxonomy is bad. Like trust me, I love the amount of science that proves creation and proves God I do. I'm not anti-science. I'm anti-atheism. I'm anti no God in science. That's what I'm against. Science by itself is observational learning and I believe God made a planet that shows us his glory. Observational learning is a wonderful thing. But when we see according to its kind, we today with our taxonomy of the way we define things, we're trying to put it into a man-made category. God just calls it a kind. And it was so. Notice again, God's divine fiat. He speaks. This time he creates something very specific. Seed bearing plants and trees that bear fruit with seed in it according to their various kinds. And it was so. 12, the land produced vegetation, plants bearing seed according to their kinds, trees bearing fruit with seed in it according to their kinds. And God saw it and it was good. Keep remembering this. It was good. Ask yourself, good for what? Good to whom? Good why? Verse 13, and there was evening, there was morning, the third day. The third day of rotation, the planet now rotates. We have an atmosphere. We have sky. We have now land separated from water. And now the land begins to grow vegetation, edible vegetation. Move forward again. And God said, let there be lights in the vault of the sky to separate the day from the night and let them serve as signs to mark sacred times and days and years and let the lights be in the vault of the sky, give light on the earth. Here's where the sun, moon, and stars are created. This is day four. Light existed on day one. From what source? I cannot be totally sure. The glory of God is a fantastic answer that does have some biblical support, but it's not guaranteed. Here on day four, God does two things. First, he creates light elements. Okay, good question. Let me go back to the previous verse. Were we created to be vegetarians originally? Yes. That's what the Bible says. Our dietary things change after the flood and if you go over to Genesis 9, you could see that. But originally when God created creation, he made, and this is why it was good, he made creation to just make food. We didn't have to farm it. We didn't have to grow it. It just, creation was built to feed. All right, so now we get back to the lights, the heavenly lights. God creates the sun. He creates the moon. He creates the stars, but he doesn't just create them. He gives them a job. He gives them a responsibility, and that is to serve in mark the signs for sacred times, also holy days, days and years. So I just, I mean, I just want to ask the obvious question. For someone who thinks that the Bible's account of creation doesn't make any sense, how do we decide how long a year is? I mean, it's not a rhetorical question. It's a literal question. How do we decide how long a year is? The earth's traveling around the sun. How do we decide how long a month is? It's generally the moon's rotation around the sun. The Hebrew calendar was lunisolar. So our calendar that you and I grew up with, it's called the Gregorian calendar. It was created by Pope Gregory the whatever. I don't remember which number. And he used the sun, the 365 and a quarter days. That's why every four years you have a leap year. If anybody ever wants a cool piece of knowledge, how long is a year? It's 365.25 days. That's why every four years we have a leap year and we take the extra year out. Because what would happen over time, that quarter of a day would add up and all of a sudden summer is when you would go skiing and winter is when you would, right? Doesn't this feel weird? Like you'd all of a sudden be getting bikini ready in December instead of in July. That doesn't make sense. God created it that way. He made it so that the sun and the moon and the earth, we see the earth is already rotating. All of this was created on purpose. It's not like, the idea that the universe works the way it works by accident is astronomically impossible. I'll say it mathematically impossible. Professional mathematicians will tell you that anything like times 10 to the 50th is considered mathematically impossible. All of the six numbers that make our universe possible, gravitational force, new strong and weak nuclear forces, the distance of the earth from the sun, the speed of light, these are all numbers. The likelihood that all of these numbers could be the way they are by accident is mathematically impossible. The universe requires a better cause and I offer it to you here in Genesis 1. God placed all of these luminaries in our cosmos and made them work on purpose. For why? To track time. To track time exactly the way you and I do it today. And let the lights be in the vault of the sky. Give light on the earth and it was so. God made two great lights. The greater light to govern the day. We call that the sun. Yep, still interactive. And the lesser light to govern the night. That's the good job. And he also made the stars. Forward. God set them in the vault of the sky to give light on the earth. What is the purpose of the sun, moon and stars? To give light on the earth. Do you notice that God's focus is still on this planet? After we left verse 1, everything is God crafting. As a master craftsman, crafts and artisanal work, God is focused on our planet to govern the night and God saw it and it was good. And there was evening and there was morning. Again, one full rotation of earth on axis. Fourth day. Now we move on again. And God said, let the water team with living creatures and let birds fly above the earth across the vault of the sky. Now, and I will say for those who like the framework view, there is a pattern in Genesis 1. The first three days and the latter three days mirror one another. What happened on the first day? There was water and then God separated the water from the waters. What happens here? God now populates those two areas. The waters and the sky. He populates them with creatures. And God said, let the water team with living creatures, let the birds fly above the earth across the vault of the sky. 21. And so God created the great creatures of the sea and every living thing with which the water teams and that moves about in it. Again, don't think of our modern scientific taxonomy. I just need you to think every animal that lives in water. This would include any animal that lives in water. That's the only criteria. Like we today, we make a distinction, right? So we make a distinction between reptiles that live in water and fish that live in water and mammals that live in water. Whereas in this organizational system, we're just looking at everything that lives in an area. Why? Because God has dominion over that area. God has dominion over the waters. So then he populates the waters. So God created the great creatures of the seas. The teams according to their kinds and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. Keep asking yourself why. Forward again. And God blessed them. Who's the them? All the creatures of the sky and water. God blessed them and said, be fruitful and increase in number and fill the waters in the seas and let the birds increase on the earth. And there was evening and there was morning the fifth day. Another rotation of planet earth on axis. Forward. And God said, let the land produce creatures. What happened? He separated. He made land. He populated. Now he's populating land. And God said, let the land produce living creatures according to their kinds, the livestock, the creatures that move along the ground, and the wild animals, each according to its kind. And it was so. Question. Why does the land produce the animals and he creates the water and sky animals? That's a fantastic question. I don't know. I'll just be perfectly honest. Why did God choose to describe it that way? I can't say. I could say that because God has dominion over the sky domain and the water domain and the land domain, he has the divine right to create as he sees fit. Why is it described this way? Fantastic question. We will have to ask the Lord when we get there because that one I don't know for sure. So the land produces living creatures according to their kinds. Do you notice the three kinds of living creatures? The livestock, the creatures that move along the ground, and the wild animals. God hasn't made man yet, right? Not yet. Now by the time that Moses is recording this, of course, God has already created man and the entire book of Genesis has already happened. But notice the division of the way the Hebrew look at land animals. What are livestock? They are animals that are designed for human husbandry. They're animals that are designed for us to be able to cohabitate with them. Then creatures that move along the ground. That's literally everything that's creepy crawly icky. That's my theological term right there. Creepy crawly icky. And wild animals. Animals that live in the wild, some of which are dangerous, right? I love the fact that even before humanity is made, God describes a certain classification of animal as being designed for us to be able to cohabitate and live with. And God made wild animals according to their kinds. Again, there were kinds. The livestock according to their kinds and the creatures that move along the ground according to their kinds. And God saw that it was... Is anybody wondering yet why it's good? All right, let's keep going. I got a question coming in. I'll just, I'll answer it when it's ready. All right, now. And God said, let us make mankind in our image. I want to, I want to stop. Let us make mankind in our image. Do you notice God created everything, then he focused on the land or the planet. He prepared the planet. He populated the planet. And now he creates one thing made in his image. Do you notice that nothing else in chapter one is made in God's image? Only humanity. God creates, focuses, prepares, populates. And now he creates the crowning achievement, theologically, of creation. Let us make mankind in our image. Right? Again, is this a direct Trinitarian reference? No. But does it realize that the Godhead is more than a singularity? Yes, it absolutely does. In our likeness, why? So that they may rule over the fish in the sea, the birds in the sky, the livestock, the wild animals, and over the creatures that move along the ground. Now we're starting to see God's purpose in creation. God's purpose in creation is humans to be his authority or regent on planet earth. And notice also, we're made in our image. And then he goes back through all the dominions that he created, right? He created the seas and then he populated them. He created the seas and then he populated them. He created the skies and then he populated them. He created the ground and then he populated them. And yet all of these dominions are to be given to mankind that they may rule. Humans were designed by God to be the regent or the responsible agent for this planet. That is what you and I were made for. We were made in the image of our creator to be the caretakers of not just planet earth, of everything that lives on planet earth. That's an amazing charge. It's an amazing responsibility. Spoiler alert, we screw it up in about a chapter and a half. But I want you to see how Genesis chapter one lays the theological foundation for how you and I are to understand ourselves in relation to where we live, this planet, in relation to the cosmos, in relation to God. Question, if God made everything that was seed bearing good for food, does that mean that the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil was seedless? That is a very unique question. Double stars. I'll say that is possible. However, Eden was planted as a specific garden in chapter two. Chapter one does not state specifically that the knowledge of the tree of good and evil exists outside the garden. So is it possible that when God made the garden of Eden, he also made the two trees? And there are two trees in the center of the garden. We'll get to that one next week when we talk about Adam and Eve in the garden. So what I'll say is scripture is not clear. I don't want to give you a guarantee where the scriptures are not clear. Is it possible that the knowledge of good and evil had seeds? Totally. Is it possible that it does not have seeds? Also possible. I'll say since all seed bearing plants are given to humans and humans are supposed to eat, it is likely that it had seeds although the scripture doesn't reference it. So that's the best I can give you. So we'll talk more about those trees next week when we focus more on Eden and Adam and Eve. Verse 27, so God created mankind in his own image. You were made in the image of God. Every human was made in the image of God. You and I have no right to hate any other human on this planet. You know why? Because as much as somebody may look at me and their lifestyle may be apporrent to me, their views might be apporrent to me, their language or their vocabulary might be apporrent to me. No matter how sinful someone is, they carry the image of God every day that there is breath in their lungs and that deserves respect. We have not done a great job as Christians of teaching respect for our fellow man, but we ought to because, and let's just be super honest, the amount of the image of God that is in me, Bob, same amount that's in you, same amount that's in Paul, same amount that's in, well maybe Ryan gets a little more, his chin's just on point, right? But if every single human is made in the image of God, you and I have no right to hate. We have no right to despise. We also really should never write to be jealous of because everybody was made in the same image. This is also why if all of humankind is made in the same image, here's your theological basis for the sanctity of life. Why is it a biblical necessity that all life is sacred? Because all human life is made carrying the image of God every day. All of us are that way. In the image of God, he created, and I got to point this out, you see the plurality here? He created them, male and female, he created them. There is a false teaching that says only Adam was made in the image of God and because Eve was made from Adam, next chapter, that Eve is somehow a lesser human. Please ladies understand that is a lie from the pit of hell. It says here, he created them, male and female. Every single human being, male or female, is made in the image of God. And honestly, if you understand that God is a plurality from the beginning, you and I can't fully understand the way are we were created until we're in relationship. And that's why in my opinion, and I'll step away from the text for a minute, this is my opinion. This is why the sanctity of marriage needs to be important. Because you cannot possibly understand the concept of living in unity with somebody until you've been married to somebody for a good long time and learned how to work together. One person by themself does carry the image of God, but both of them together, we were all created. All right, so then we move forward again. We're almost, we're getting there, we're almost to the end. God blessed them and said to them, be fruitful and increase in number. This is humans now. Be fruitful and increase in number. Fill the earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the air and the sky over every living creature that moves along the ground. Then God said, I give you every, here it comes again, seed bearing plants on the face of the whole earth and every tree that has fruit with seed in it. You remember that came up before. They will be yours for food. So now we see the main theological thrust of this entire chapter, which is that all of planet earth was designed for human habitation. It's for you and I to live here. The planet was crafted for us. The job was made for us. The food was supplied for us. Everything was made so that you and I could serve our creator on the planet that was fashioned uniquely for us to serve him down to the food that was made for us. Then God said, I give you every seed bearing plant, all of this. Now we move forward one more time. In all of the beasts of the earth and all the birds of the sky, the creatures that move along the ground. Notice he keeps describing the creatures in the domains in which they're in. Everything that has the breath of life in it. I give every green plant for food and God saw all the inmate and it was very good. It's the only time this adjective exists in all of Genesis chapter one. Why? Why is creation very good? You know why? Because now creation has fulfilled its purpose by being given man to rule over it. Why was it good? Remember I asked you the whole chapter. Why is it good? Why was it good that God created light? Because light grows the plants. Why was it good that God separated the waters? Because the atmosphere protects the planet. Why was it good that God separated the waters and brought forth land? Because land produces food. Why was it good that man was created? Because the cosmos was created to create planet earth, to have an atmosphere, to have land, to grow food for humanity. Humanity is the focus of Genesis chapter one. God created the planet that you and I live on today for us to be here and to be his servants. And there was evening and there was morning the sixth day. One more rotation of planet earth and now we get the last three verses here in chapter two. Thus the heavens and earth were completed. Creation wasn't done until God's regent was placed in place in all their vast array. By the seventh day God had finished the work he had been doing so on the seventh day he rested from all his work. Let me answer the question. Let me answer the question this way. Does God have to rest? No, you're right. Does God have an inexhaustible source of energy? Yeah, he totally does. Right? God is eternal and God is immutable. God can't run out of energy. Right? He's not like the energizer buddy that slows down. So is God resting an intentional choice? Yes, it is. Because God didn't need to rest. He chose to rest. So then we must ask the question, why does God choose to rest? Here it is. Then God blessed the seventh day and he made it holy because he rested. So why does God rest? Not because he is out of energy or not because he is tired. He is an immutable eternal God who existed before in the beginning. He rests in order to accomplish one final thing and that is by resting he sets aside the seventh day and made it holy because he rested from all the work of creating that he had done. He actually creates by not creating. That's how amazing God is. And throughout all of human history, we've had a seven day work week. We've had a seven day week. Does anybody find that odd? Why? Why do we track time in seven days? Why do we track the moon? Why do we track the sun? Because when I go back to day four, God set it up that way. God rested on the seventh day. He made it holy. Now later when we get to the law, we're going to see that they codify that in the law and all that fun stuff. All right. I don't have any more questions coming in. So let me give you the takeaway. Here's what I want you to take away. God's creation was designed for man to be his regent and representative ruling creation under his authority. This is the created mandate for which you were made. How you doing? I mean just yeah. I think I suck out loud at most of this. I'll just be perfectly honest with you. When I was younger and I'll just give you a great example. When I was younger, before I met my wife and became an intelligent man and I was still a stupid young man, I used to throw trash out of my car all the time going down the highway. I lived in Florida. I had a rag top. You go 75 miles an hour down the highway. All you got to do is throw it up and by the time it comes down, your car is already gone. I used to litter so bad and then I read Genesis 1 and got completely convicted and it was as if the Holy Spirit spoke to me through the pages and he said, why are you ruining that which I made for you? Right? It was just like my mama saying, why are you tearing up your bedroom? I gave you this. How many of us give a bedroom to our children or give something responsible to them? Why? Because God is our father and he's expecting us to be responsible with that which he made for us. So my question for you today as we go ahead and close out the service. I want you to pull out your phones this time. I want you to scan and use the Connect card that's on the handout. If you don't have one, you can get the Connect card from the chair back in front of you or if you're joining us online, you can go to catalyst302.com slash Connect or you guys, if you're in the room, you can scan that right there. You were created and designed by God to obey him and care for his creation. That's the big theological point of Genesis 1.1 to 2.3. God made the universe, then he fashioned the planet, he placed our job on the planet, the ground, the seeds, the animals, and then the crowning achievement of creation week is the creating of human beings for you and I to be in relationship with him and to serve him. So the only logical question that I can have left is, are you in right relationship with your creator today? Because I believe the Bible just told me you were made in his image. You were created by him, for him, to serve him. Are you doing that? Have you restored your right relationship to God through Jesus? Because I'll tell you, not only do I believe that Genesis is true, I believe the New Testament is true. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life and no man can be in relationship to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. I believe that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the relationship to the Father except through me. I've run super long so I don't have a whole lot of time to explain that Jesus is the second Adam and he solves the problems created by the first Adam. You just have to take my word for it until next week when we get to Genesis chapter 2. But I can tell you right now, you, if you are listening to this sermon, here's what I need you to know. You were made by God to be loved by God. You've been saved by God, but you have to submit and accept it. That's the message of Genesis 1. So as you're finishing your connect card, I'm going to ask the pastors to come forward. We're going to take this morning's offering and then I just got two announcements. I apologize that I ran long. There's just so many details in there. I didn't want to miss the opportunity for you guys to ask questions. If you have any additional questions, please feel free to email me, pastorbill at catalyst302.com and I will add those questions to my printed out list of everything that happens. But right now, I want to pray. I want to ask us to give our tithes and offerings to the Lord. Not out of compulsion. You're not giving me a tip for doing a good teaching. No, we give to God because he's worthy of our worship. Because he created us in his image to be his servants. So pray with me this morning. Heavenly Father, I thank you so much that you have made it so clear in your word that we were made to be like you. We were made to obey you. We were made in your image to rule in your stead. Lord, forgive us for our sins. Thank you for sending us a savior to repair that relationship. But Holy Spirit, I pray you would push us to obedience. That we would follow your teaching and we would trust you with our finances. We would give back to the many blessings, from the many blessings that you have already given us. Lord, we worship you today in your awesome name. Amen.