Investigation Easter
Monday, April 4, 2022 3:48 PM
INVESTIGATION EASTER:
Is the Resurrection history or mythology?
I. DEFINITIONS
a. What is history?
History is the record of actual past events.
b. What is mythology?
Mythology is a story or belief that is not historical.
History and mythology are mutually exclusive. Something cannot be both, it
must be one or the other.
c. What's the difference?
History is based on fact.
Mythology is based on belief.
Paraphrase Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan
We are each entitled to our own beliefs,
but we are not entitled to our own facts.
Teaching, not a sermon...
d. Did Jesus actually exist or is He a mythological figure?
The "evidence is overwhelming that Jesus really did live as a Jewish teacher in
Palestine and was crucified at the direction of the Roman governor Pontius
Pilate."
Investigation Easter Page 1

Pilate."
- Atheist Scholar Bart Ehrman, "Did Jesus Exist"
The idea that Jesus is a mythological invention is false.
Jesus is a true historical figure.
So, what can we know about the Resurrection?
II. MINIMAL FACTS
a. What is a "Minimal Fact"
i. "Minimal Facts" is an approach to the facts surrounding the
resurrection developed by historian and New Testament scholar, Gary
Habermas
ii. A "Minimal Fact" is one that "considers only those data that are so
strongly attested historically that they are granted by nearly every
scholar who studies the subject, even the rather skeptical ones."
iii. The following facts are accepted by the majority of scholars
REGARDLESS of their beliefs.
iv. All of these facts also align perfectly with the Biblical record of Jesus.
III. Fact 1: Jesus died by Crucifixion
a. The Historical record: (within 100 years of the cross)
i. "Christus, the founder of the name, was put to death by Pontius
Pilate." - Tacitus (Roman historian)
Investigation Easter Page 2

ii. "When Pilate, at the suggestion of the principle men among us, had
condemned him to the cross, those that loved him at first did not
forsake him." - Josephus, Jewish Historian
b. The Biblical record: Matt 27:50, Mark 15:37, Luke 23:46, John 19:33
IV. Fact 2: The disciples claimed to have resurrection experiences
a. Historical record:
i. Early Christian creed:
1) "For what I received I passed on to you as of first importance: that
Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, that he was
buried, that he was raised on the third day according to the
Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, and then to the Twelve.
After that, he appeared to more than five hundred of the brothers
and sisters at the same time, most of whom are still living, though
some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the
apostles"
2) "The traditions he (Paul) inherited must date to just a couple of
years after Jesus' death." - Atheist Scholar Bart Ehrman
b. Biblical record: Matt 28:9,17; Mark 16:12; Luke 24:36; John 20:27; Acts 1:3
V. Fact 3: The transformation of Paul from adversary to apostle
a. Historical record:
i. Virtually ALL NT scholars, including the atheists, grant these 7 books of
Paul:
1) Romans, 1 & 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Philippians, 1 Thessalonians,
Philemon
Investigation Easter Page 3

a) Atheist scholars will grant that:
i) Paul is the author
ii) Given his education Paul wouldn't knowingly lie to his readers
iii) Paul was in the right time and place for the information
iv) Paul was trained well and is trustworthy in his account
"For you have heard of my previous way of life in Judaism, how intensely I
persecuted the church of God and tried to destroy it. I was advancing in
Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people and was
extremely zealous for the traditions of my fathers. But when God, who set
me apart from my mother’s womb and called me by his grace, was
pleased to reveal his Son in me so that I might preach him among the
Gentiles."
ALTERNATE EXPLINATIONS:
Fact 1: Jesus died by crucifixion
Alternative: The Swoon Theory
Jesus did not die, but merely fainted on the cross and was revived in the
cool air of the Tomb.
Problems with this theory:
Requires professional executioners to not know the difference between
alive and dead
Requires the two men who prepared Jesus body for burial to mistake alive
for dead
Requires a very weak, post torture man to roll away the heavy stone and
evade the guards
Requires the disciples to mistake a broken and tortured man for a
resurrected Messiah
Fails to explain the conversion of Paul
Investigation Easter Page 4

Fact 2: The disciples claimed to have resurrection experiences
Alternative: The Hallucination Theory
Jesus did not resurrect, the disciples hallucinated out of grief
Problems with this theory:
There is no known record of group hallucination
Hallucinations do not explain the empty tomb
Hallucinations do not explain the conversion of Paul
There are too many varied people groups to be mere hallucination
Fact 3: The transformation of Paul from adversary to apostle
Alternative: The Invention Theory
Paul invented Christianity
Problems with this theory:
This doesn't explain the empty tomb
This doesn't explain the disciples' resurrection experiences
This doesn't explain why the Roman guards and Jewish leaders reported
the empty tomb
This doesn't explain the existence of the early Christian creeds
This doesn't fit with atheist scholars trust of Paul's writings
If Jesus rose from the dead, He is who He claimed to be.
If Jesus rose from the dead, God exists.
If Jesus rose from the dead, the Bible follows.
If Jesus rose from the dead, the Christian faith is true.
Investigation Easter Page 5

“I am the way, the truth, and the life.
No one can come to the Father except through me."
- Jesus
Investigation Easter Page 6