Well, good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. If you are joining us online this morning, thank you for being a part of our extended Catalyst family. You picked a great Sunday to be here. It's not always we get to have the whole worship team sing at the same time, but that is really a treat. They are incredibly talented. So, worship team, thank you for all the hard work and the effort and the homework and everything else you do to help lead us in worship. That was awesome. We are going to be continuing our series from the book of James. So, if you brought your Bibles with you, I'm going to ask that you turn or tap with me to James chapter 3. We're going to start reading in verse 13. Normally, this is where I would throw in the big Bible story, but we have some other elements in the service today and I don't want to belabor too many things. So, we're going to jump into James chapter 3 at verse 13. While you're turning there, let me give you the key thought that's going to hold all of these together. This is the key thought or my best take on a key thought for the whole book of James. From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the real world. And you need to see that faith lived out day to day in the real world. Quick background so you know who we're reading today. James is most likely written by James the half-brother of Jesus. If you're interested in the other views of who could have written the book of James, go to either our website or the catalyst app. Go to the first message in this series. I did a much deeper dive there, but I believe that the most likely candidate is James the half-brother of Jesus. What makes that very interesting is James did not become a Christian until after the resurrection. So, all the way through the crucifixion and death of his physical half-brother, he did not think that Jesus was the Son of God. But after the resurrection, James the skeptic became a believer and then shortly after that he became a leader in the church at Jerusalem. The text we're going to read this morning is most likely written from AD 35 to 45, which means this is the very first New Testament book to be written. Paul most likely wrote Galatians around AD 49. James writing here 35 to 45. That makes this the very first New Testament letter. And then if you have the catalyst app, I'm going to ask even if you're if you're watching at home and you're watching either on your computer or you have the TV app, I want you to follow along in the mobile app. If you open it, you'll see the first announcement says sermon notes. If you click on that, it will load a page and it give you fill in the blank. See, my niece already thinks it's a great idea. She's telling you that's what you should do. Just a short point in case that's distracting to anybody. Churches that don't have children don't have a future. Okay? So my great niece can sit there and be as excited as she wants to be and any other baby that shows up. Not just my niece, but she's the one that happens to be here right now. So I want you to follow along with me. I gave you some fill in the blanks there. I'll give you the fill-ins as we go. But the first fill-in is just to remind you of what the audience of the book of James is. The audience is faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. Faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. If we're reading a text written by the 1st century church in AD 35 to 45, Christianity is illegal in the Roman Empire. It was illegal for the first several hundred years of our faith. Those who converted to Christianity were at first Jews. So they were somewhat protected because Jews... Judaism was a legal religion in the Roman Empire. But as it became evident that Christianity came from Judaism but was going a different direction, we became an illegal faith and we were hunted and killed for it. And so you have believers scattered throughout a pagan land where they're not in control of the government. They are not in control of the military. They're being hunted for their faith and it's into this environment where the church is born and has zero civil influence. That's where James is writing. So the title of my sermon this morning is The Root of Fruit. The Root of Fruit. And our text is James chapter 3. We're gonna start reading in verse 13 and then we're gonna read all the way down to chapter 4 verse 3. And when I get down there, I'll explain why I decided to stop there. But if you have your notes, I have the full text for you right here. So let's read that together as one piece and then we'll go back through and break it up and see why I picked such a crazy title. So here we go. The book of James starting in verse 13. Who is wise and understanding among you? Let them show it by their good life, by deeds done in humility that comes from wisdom. But if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it or deny the truth. Such wisdom comes does not come down from heaven but is earthly, unspiritual, and demonic. For where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder in every evil practice. But the wisdom that comes from heaven is first of all pure, then peace loving, considerate, submissive, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and sincere, peacemakers who sew in peace, reap a harvest of righteousness. What causes fights and quarrels among you? Don't they come from your desire that battles within you? You desire but do not have, so you kill. You covet but you cannot get what you want, so you quarrel and fight. You do not have because you do not ask God. And when you ask, you do not receive because you ask with wrong motives that you may spend what you get on your pleasure. And that's where we're gonna stop, chapter 4 verse 3. So let's rewind and come back to chapter 3 verse 13 and start walking through this text. First, those of you who are following along and filling in on the app, here is letter A. The fruit of a righteous lifestyle grows from the root of godly wisdom. The fruit of a righteous lifestyle grows from the root of godly wisdom. And now you're starting to see why I picked the title. Another thing I want to point out is when these scriptures were originally written, there were no chapter and verse notations. We added those hundreds of years later so that we could do what we're doing right now and we could study the scriptures together and we could all turn to the same verse on the same page because when the scriptures were originally written, they were literally handwritten. They were handwritten on scrolls. They weren't even handwritten on books, so you didn't have to find a certain page. But as the Christian church began to study the scriptures together and then especially when we began printing them, we added the chapter and verses. So I want you to see that if you're looking in your whole Bible, there is no clear thematic break from verse 12 to verse 13. I had to insert a break so that my sermons don't go any longer than somewhat reasonable or normally reasonable, but there is no clear thematic break between verse 12 and verse 13. So the same idea that we talked about last week now takes on a new dimension and now we're looking at the root of wisdom as seen in the fruit of one's life, which is why I got to the first blank. The fruit of a righteous lifestyle grows from the root of godly wisdom. So here's verse 13. Who is wise and understanding among you? So this is obviously a rhetorical question because it's written in a letter, but what James is trying to key in on are the people within the believers scattered throughout pagan lands who possess two things. The first is wisdom. Wisdom is not just intelligence. Wisdom is usually the application of discernment. You can know the right thing to do. You can know how to fix something, but the wisdom is in knowing how to apply what you know. And then the second is understanding. That literally means learned or knowledgeable. So we put these two things together. Who is wise? Who is able to discern how to apply what they know? And who is understanding or learned? Who knows a lot? Those two things. Then let them show it by their good life. And here it is. Just like the baseless claim from chapter 2 verse 16, James is staying in line with the idea that works, good works, and he'll go on in a minute to explain that a little more, good deeds done in life. They are the evidence that it grows from faith. This ties into chapter 2 verse 16, chapter 2 verse 17, and chapter 2 verse 26. That's why I wanted you to see the no thematic break from 12 to 13. I created an arbitrary break so I could try to teach it in pieces, but he's still saying the same idea. That the believer's life should develop and produce the fruit of good works. The fruit are not what establishes salvation. They are what comes from salvation. That's why I like the analogy of root and fruit. It is not what establishes it. What grows from it. Then he uses the term good life that literally means a life of high moral goodness value or status. Not of earthly status, but of moral godly status. And then ultimately he says, good deeds done in humility that come from wisdom. And now he's starting to tie all this together, right? So if you are wise and discerning of how to apply yourself, if you are knowledgeable and you understand the things of God, you will need humility to live in wisdom. You know why? Because if you are really that smart and you're sure you know how to apply in every situation, you're gonna be tempted to trust in yourself. You can be tempted to, I just know better. I know better. I know what's best to do here. And then we stop checking with God and we stop checking our heart against his word. We stop checking for the truth of the scripture because we know best. So that's why he adds to this idea of wisdom. This idea of understanding, learning, and knowledge. Humility. If I could use the International Bill version, know your role, bro. You're not God. Know your role. Our job is to follow him, not be him, not replace him. But humility, we do deeds that come from wisdom. In my opinion, this is where he's answering his own question from the beginning of the verse. The beginning of the verse reads, who is wise and understanding among you? The end of the verse, in my view, he's answering it by saying, listen, those of you who are wise and understanding among you, you would know who they are because of the good deeds done in humility that are the product of their wisdom. Feel me? Because again, he's writing to believers scattered throughout pagan lands. So he's writing to little pockets here and there and everywhere and all over the place. The answer to who is wise and understanding among you is the end of the verse where it's those who live the good life in good deeds that come from wisdom. So that gets us to letter B. The fruit of jealous rivalry grows from the root of demonic worldliness. The fruit of jealous rivalry grows from the root of demonic worldliness. Let's take a look at verse 14. But stop. Right? He just made a good argument in the previous verse. Those who are wise and understanding, you'll see it in their lifestyle. But now here's the reverse of that, right? But if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition Here's what's really cool about this verse. The word bitter that's used to describe the kind of envy, right? So that's the adjective describing the noun, is the same word in Greek that is used for salt. So in the previous section, when he talks about can a spring produce fresh water and salt water, he's literally saying, can you get fresh water and bitter water from the same spring? Follow that through to here and he's saying, but if you are the ones harboring that bitter salty water in your hearts, the selfish ambition which is literally jealousy, like actions driven by jealous envy. If that is coming from you, then don't brag about it. Don't boast about it and don't deny the truth of it. What's the truth? The truth is the salt saltiness, the bitterness that he's describing in our hearts comes from envy. But if you harbor a bit of bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it. Do not deny the truth. Verse 15, such wisdom, right? Sophia, there's your name again by the way. Such wisdom does not come down from heaven. What's the wisdom that doesn't come down from heaven? The wisdom that doesn't come down from heaven is the idea that believers are allowed to be jealous and bitter against one another. That's what he's saying here. Those who are wise and understanding, your lifestyle is going to show it. Those that you've got worldly demonic mess in the bottom of your heart, your lifestyle is going to show it. If you're harboring this bitterness, if you're harboring this selfish rivalry, that's earthly wisdom. That's not godly wisdom. Such wisdom does not come down from heaven but is, and he gives three words, earthly, unspiritual, and demonic. Earthly, unspiritual, demonic are really all saying the same thing. You as a Christian are not justified in being jealous of fellow believers ever. All of that jealousy comes from our earthly nature. All of that jealousy comes from worldly quality by comparison. I try to teach my children quality by comparison always fails because there's always going to be somebody better than you at something, right? Even somebody who wins the gold medal at the Olympics and they are literally the number one human at whatever that thing is, right? They'll be another number one human if not in four years, eight years, you know? There's always going to be someone faster, someone bigger, someone stronger, someone prettier, someone younger, someone older, someone richer, someone poorer. There is no point in giving in to this wisdom of the world that really comes from a, and I can't stress this enough, earthly meaning not from heaven, unspiritual not from God, demonic not from God. When you find yourself being pulled into bitterness, being pulled into jealousy, being driven, ambition driven by jealousy, be very careful none of that comes from the Holy Spirit. That's what he's saying and he's talking about that fruit coming from it. So the understanding and the actions that lead to envy and to jealousy are demonic. Period. End of the story. Verse 16. Where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder and every evil practice. So now he's saying the root is this demonic unspiritual worldliness. The fruit that it produces is envy and selfish ambition and where that fruit is grown, there's additional evidence. There you will find disorder, literally means disharmony, confusion or insurrection and evil practice, foul, wicked, ungodly. So if we wrap all this together, step one, if there is bitterness, selfish ambition, jealousy and envy in your heart against another believer, keep in mind that's the audience here, I would argue you shouldn't have it period. There's nothing that we should ever be jealous of someone who's not saved, right? We just shouldn't be. We have an eternal kingdom that they don't have yet. We have an eternal destiny that they don't have yet. We should be broken that they don't have it, not jealous that they have some earthly thing that's gonna pass away in another 80 years and then we're gonna be arguing about popsicle sticks. For where you have that envy and that selfish ambition, those things within a body of believers are gonna grow two things. The first is they are going to grow disharmony. That's why as a pastor, if you've ever been in a church that is racked with division and strife, you can almost always find the source is some sort of sinful demonic influence. There's jealousy, there's bitterness, there's not humility, there's not grace and peace and mercy between believers, there's fighting, there's territorialism, there's no this is my thing, this is your, right? People trying to own, no, none of this is y'all's, it's all his. None of this is mine, it's all his. None of this is Jim's or Bill's or the the rest of the Elder and Deacon team, it's all his. He's placed us in responsibility of it but he still owns it. So there should be no reason for disharmony, for confusion or for insurrection if everything belongs to Jesus and we're all just servants, get over yourself and realize we're all on the same level and that would get rid of most of the disharmony, confusion and insurrection. Number two, the other thing that it produces when that fruit from that envy and selfish ambition is literally foul, wicked or worthless practices. So once you let that envy and that selfish ambition take root and once it begins to create disharmony, you're going to see foul and wicked or just flat-out worthless things be produced in that body. Like you could write an entire don't do church book on pretty much these three verses. If we could just love each other enough to not be jealous, if we could just love each other enough to not be envious, we could stop the fruit before it ever grows into disharmony. That takes us to letter C. The fruit of compassionate peace grows from the root of godly wisdom. The root of it's like I speak for a living, ready? The fruit of compassionate peace grows from the root of godly wisdom. Take a look at verse 17. But the wisdom, so now he's switching, right? We talked about now the earthly wisdom and what the fruit is and what it shows. Now we're switching back. Now we're going to look at the wisdom that comes from heaven. What is that? That's godly wisdom. The wisdom that comes from heaven is first of all pure. Why does he say that? Because in the preceding verse he just talked about wicked and worthless and evil. It's the exact opposite. The wisdom that comes from God will always be the opposite of the wisdom that comes from the world. The wisdom that comes from the world will always be the opposite of the wisdom that comes from God. You know why? Because the world wants you to believe that you are the main character and the star of your life. And that's not what scripture says. He is the main character and star. And we are there to make his mission and his name great. Earthly wisdom says that you should do whatever makes you feel good in the moment, right? That's hedonism, by the way. That's what it's called. Hedonism is making the decision based on what pleases me at this time. And whatever pleases me at this time is what is morally good. That's called hedonism. That is incompatible with Christianity. What pleases God is what is good at all times. Not just this time. At all times. So the wisdom that comes from heaven is first of all pure. It is absent of any of that wickedness. Second, it is peace-loving, considerate, submissive, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and insincere. Do you see these are all things that you would think you'd want in a church? These are all things you would want in good Christian friends. You cannot be a follower of the Prince of peace and not love peace. That seems pretty obvious to me. If we live by the wisdom that comes from heaven, if we live by God's wisdom, we will be absent of the icky sticky wickedness. We will also love peace. We will be considerate. We will be submissive. We will be full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and sincere. The understanding and the actions that come from godly wisdom produce peace, consideration, submission, mercy, impartiality and sincerity because they are from God. In the same way that the selfish ambition and the bad roots grow bad fruits. The godliness. The submission to Christ by the way. Not to the world. Submission to Christ in his word. When that is the root of your life. The fruits that you will see come out of it are the things that he names here in verse 17. But he's not done yet. Then he goes to verse 18. Peacemakers who sow in peace reap a harvest of righteousness. Now, let's break this down because there's there's one thing in the sentence that we might not we might miss. First of all, peacemakers, I think that's pretty obvious. Literally those who bring peace or those who make peace. So in peace. So we don't live in an agrarian society anymore but James's society did. They understood that there are certain times of year that you have to plant seeds and there's certain times a year where you got to tend the weeds and there's certain times a year you got to pray for rain and then there will come a time of year when the harvest is good and then you got to store some of that harvest in order to have seeds to plant for next year. That's an agrarian cycle, right? They live that. So peacemakers who sow in peace. That word sow in the Greek doesn't just mean plant. It means plant on top of that which has been planted. It means to sow on top of or to sow afterwards. So it's not just the initial planting of tomatoes. It's the I planted tomatoes but I'll be darned if I don't really like tomatoes so I'm gonna plant some more seeds. That's what that word means. It literally means to sow on top of or to sow afterwards. So if I supplant that into the sentence, peacemakers, those who make peace will plant peace on top of peace and will reap a harvest of righteousness. That's what he's saying. What he's saying is those who are the peacemakers they sow peace even in peacetime. They sow peace even when there is presence of peace because we want more of it. We want the peace of Christ all the time. So we sow on top of or we continue to plant afterwards and the harvest that comes from that is righteousness. Literally virtuous conforming to God's law. If we will choose to sow peace on top of peace we will reap the harvest of virtuous just conforming of God's law and righteous. Then we get to letter D. The fruit of fights between believers and denied answers to prayer grow from the selfish desire. Let me, Eric, let me have that one more time because that was a long sentence. Thank you. The fruit of fights between believers and denied answers to prayer grow from the root of selfish desire. Now I want to tell you why I included these three verses in this sermon instead of next week. Again there is no primary thematic break between the end of chapter 3 and the beginning of chapter 4. Even though when you read your Bible, anybody who reads a Bible that's got chapter and verses in it, the chapter and verse notations make you mentally disconnect the end of chapter 3 from the beginning of chapter 4 merely by reading verse 1. And so many times I've seen people start reading this passage at verse 1 and not give any frame of reference to anything that James has said previously. I want to challenge you read this passage. Start at chapter 3 verse 13 and read all the way to 4 chapter 3 and then close your Bible reopen it and then start at 1 and read down. And I believe you'll discover what I saw which is these three verses tether the two sections together which is why there's not a thematic break. I would be completely justified in teaching these three verses at the end of this sermon and then also teaching them at the beginning of the next sermon because he's tying these thoughts together. The reason I can say that is he is still talking about roots growing fruits. He's still saying the fruit of fights between believers and denied answers to prayer grow from the root of selfish desire. So now on top of what he's already said about planting evil roots getting bad fruit, planting good roots getting good fruit. He asks another rhetorical question. He started in 13 with who has fights and quarrels among you. Right. Here's another rhetorical question. Excuse me who is wise and understanding among you was 13 here in verse 4 verse 1. What causes fights and quarrels among you. Don't they come from your desires that battle within you. So again fights and quarrels specifically fights and quarrels between believers. Don't miss the context. Right. Believers scattered among pagan people. The fights and quarrels are happening between believers. Here's the other thing I need to remember. When was the book of James written? Somebody tell me. Max 45 right 35 45. When did Jesus rise? What year? 30. Jesus rise in AD 30 and James is writing this at max we'll call it 45. So it took us 15 years to have such a problem with quarrels between believers that the leader of the Church of Jerusalem has got to write about it. Okay so maybe I don't feel so bad about our churches today being so stricken with difficulties and whole denominations throwing like lobbing grenades at each other. We didn't make it 15 years and James had to tell us that what causes our fights and quarrels is our selfishness. So if you're still fighting and quarreling with other believers two thoughts. A I love you B James says you're selfish. So while this rhetorical question does begin a new section it's related. The fights and the quarrels between believers they come from your desires literally. The reason I mentioned hedonism now I remember it. Do you ever do that? You ever mentioned something and you forget why you want to mention that thing and then five minutes later? Yeah so here's why I mentioned hedonism. The word desire in this verse is literally hedonay. It's where we get our English word hedon or hedonism from. What is hedonism? The desire to seek your own pleasure as what is good as what is best. So what causes fights and quarrels among you? Hedonism. That desire to feed my internal lust or pleasure for myself or I could say selfishness. All sin in my opinion boils down to selfishness. It boils down to us choosing our desires over God's design. But here he's saying within the body of believers the fruit of fighting and quarrels grows directly from the root of our own selfishness. I just want you to think about that the next time you're ready to fight with another believer. Where is my selfishness in here? Then we get to verse 2. But your desire literally again hedonay selfishness the desire for lust born out of jealousy. The desire you desire but you don't have so you kill. Do you see the root fruit again? You lust and crave something that another believer has and so you kill to get it. You covet but you cannot get what you want so you quarrel and fight. Does anybody notice? Now keep in mind James is writing 35 to 45. The majority of Christians come from a Jewish background. Does anybody notice he just hit two of the ten commandments in this first sentence? Right? Look at it. You desire but you do not have so you kill. Pretty sure that was number six. Then you covet but you cannot have what you want so you quarrel and fight. Covet. That was number ten right? I think. We did that like two years ago Jim. So if I get the numbers wrong I apologize. But keep in mind if his audience are Jewish believers and he's pointing out two of the big ten, he's making a very large theological statement to them. You desire there's your hedonism but you kill you covet another sin but you cannot get what you want so you quarrel and fight. You do not have because you do not ask God. Pause. Let's make sure we keep this in context right? This is not a verse that you just get to put in your own personal little fortune cookie and say, man I really need to win the lottery. Do not have because I do not ask God. Man I need a brand new car. Do not have because I do not ask God. That is not what he is saying. In fact he's saying the exact opposite. You are so selfish that you know what you want is wrong and the reason you don't have it is you're so wrong you can't pray for it. You don't have because you haven't asked God because you know what is causing the fights and quarrels among believers is your own inborn selfishness. This verse is not a license for selfish prayer. It is a correction against selfishness. Don't take it the wrong way. Don't disconnect one sentence from the rest of what James is saying in this entire section about fights and quarrels between believers becoming from their own inborn selfishness and I want what the other kids have. Sounds an awful lot like the Old Testament. You do not have because you do not ask God. In context the jealous believer is not going to ask God for what the other person has and this is what's causing the fight. I want what my boy Mike has but I just want it. I don't want to have to earn it. I don't have to work for it. I don't even want to have to pray for God to give it to me. I just want it because I'm me and I deserve. God's never going to answer that prayer and then he doubles down on verse three and explains it. But when you ask you do not receive because you ask with wrong motives that you may spend what you get on your pleasure. He donate there is again so the word pleasure the word desire the same word. So I want to talk for a minute about prayer so we're just going to take a quick side note and then I'm going to come back to James. There's a lot of people who like to use the term unanswered prayer. I do not like this term. This is my opinion. This is not you know thus saith the Lord but I'll tell you why I don't like this prayer or I don't like the term unanswered prayer. In my opinion God answers every prayer. He answers it with one of three answers. Yes, no, not yet. When we say unanswered prayer we are making a distinction of what an answered prayer is and we're saying that anytime God answers my prayer it's what he gives me what I want. But sometimes what I want might not be what is best for me. So in this idea that God we do not get from God it's because he is judging the motives of the selfish believer who's fighting with their friends. That'd be like you praying and fasting and asking God to win the Powerball lottery all the time. Anybody ever do that? I tell you what you ever negotiated with God? God I will totally give you 50% if I can have the other 50. No, I'm the only person? Okay that's fine. All right. I'll be selfish that's cool. I actually was like Lord do you know the number of Bibles we could translate? Maybe I give you 80% I just keep 20. I mean 20% of 400 million sounds like a lot. Like it's almost like a reverse tithe. We'll give 90% to the kingdom if I can just keep 10% of 400 million dollars. That's still super selfish. That's still not putting God first. So in my view God answers all prayers. Sometimes he says no. Sometimes he says not yet. What you're praying for is good but you're not gonna have it yet. When the Israelites were in Egypt and they were being enslaved and their children were being killed they prayed for a deliverer but Moses didn't show up on day one and they just walk out. It took time for God to bring to fruition all that he had and we can't see the future he can. So I just want to encourage you number one that when you pray be ready for the answer to be no or not yet and don't say just because God didn't give didn't give me what I want that he didn't answer my prayer because there's been times and I'll just speak on myself alone there have been times in my life that he didn't give me what I asked for. He gave me something different and that something different ended up being so much better than I ever could have asked for. So just a short note on that but let's get back to chapter 3. When you ask you do not receive because you ask with wrong motives. James is very clearly saying here that God will absolutely answer no to your prayer if your motive is your own inborn selfishness. That's just what he's saying I'm sorry that I have to be the bearer of good news but that's what he said. Sometimes God does not say yes to our prayers because our prayers are more about our personal pleasure than the growth of his kingdom. We ask with wrong motives and then just in case you didn't understand what he meant by wrong motives he finishes verse 3 that you may spend what you get on your pleasure. If you're only praying for God to do something in your life because it makes you feel good be very weary you could be praying out of selfish ambition. Now I mean an obvious example would be a young person praying to be married so that sex is okay right but how about a less obvious example praying that I get a raise at work so that I can have more money. Every time people listen people ask me all the time pastor will you please pray that I get this job absolutely will you honor God with the resources that come from it if you're asking him to give you the job or is the raise just so that you can have more spending money or that you can go out to eat more. Those are still applications of sheerly selfish prayer. Is it wrong to want to grow let's say you're a business owner is it wrong to want to grow your business absolutely not. Do you answer to God for the stewardship of your business as it grows? Yeah totally just be wise about the thing. So the fruit of denied prayer can be selfish motives. Here's the other thing I'm not gonna say I am not going to say that that is the only reason God chooses to say no to a prayer that's not what that verse says. It doesn't say the only reason God won't answer prayer is selfish motive no it says that is a reason. So don't don't extend the verse beyond what it says either because that would be inaccurate. So let me give you our takeaways we bring this in for a landing. Believers beware the visible fruit in our life grows from the roots that are often unseen. The fruit that is in your life right now is growing from the root whether you're paying attention to it or not whether you're looking at it or not. So all I have to do is ask you a simple question. What does the fruit of your life look like right now? Is your life filled with strife? Is your life absent peace? Is your life filled with conflict? Now that could be two things. There is such a thing as spiritual warfare right so let's not try to blame ourselves for every single thing that goes wrong but just because there's spiritual warfare doesn't mean you ain't selfish. So don't let yourself off the hook just because there's an enemy. Just because there is an enemy and he stands opposed to the mission of the church does not mean you can blame every bad thing that happens to you on the devil. Ah devil want me to be late to work today. No you just overslept your alarm clock. I know that's a really silly example but we do it all too often. We just want to blame all of our bad on the enemy and not take a good hard look in that self introspective mirror and go, wow where is the selfishness in my life? Those of you who are married, think back to the last argument you had with your spouse. Don't repeat it right now just just so we're clear. Even even for those you're unmarried, think about the last time you fought with a family member. Was there selfishness involved? Was there pride or were you acting in humility? See the root of your faith should bear the fruit of peace, of compassion, of consideration. Like all those things that he mentioned there. And if those are not present in your life, I'm not saying you're not saved. There's a difference between salvation and sanctification, right? We get saved in a moment, we spend the rest of our life learning how to live like Jesus. But if you are not willing to take a long hard look in the mirror and find your own selfishness, you are going to miss the application of this passage. Because he's very clearly saying the fruit in our life grows from the roots that often go unseen.