Well, good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us today. If you are joining us online, thank you for being a part of our extended Catalyst family. It is my privilege to be able to be the pastor here and to teach, and I am very excited about where we're at and what we're learning. We're continuing our series in the book of James. So if you are joining us for the first time, whether you're here in Wilmington or you're tuning in online, we've been walking through and studying the book of James. That's in the New Testament. Let me give you the key thought that really sort of holds all of these messages together. From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the real world. And that's really the book of James. I like to think of it as if faith in Jesus put on blue jeans and a ball cap and walked right down the sidewalk. That's what the book of James is. It's very practical. You know, Paul sometimes gets really theological, right? Aaron, he gets super heady and he's making analogies with the Old Testament and the New Testament. James is really not that super heady. It's really just super in your facey. Is that a thing? Can I say that? It's just it's very normative. It's very blue jeans, ball cap walking down the street. That's what the book of James is about. So I want us to we didn't get a chance to do the big Bible story last week. I need to make sure everybody keeps it fresh in their memory. So let's remind ourselves how we get to the book of James from the beginning of the Bible. So if you have not done this with us before, this is this is response. This is called action. I'm asked a question and you yell out the answer that you think is correct. Hopefully if you yell the same answer as everybody else, then that means you are all right. And if everybody else out the wrong answer, then I ask the question again. So here we go. Genesis chapter one verse one in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth into earth. He planted a garden at a place called into Eden. He planted two human beings Eve and haha, but I would trip you up. You got it. Good job. Adam. You not step on that and break stuff. All right. So Adam and Eve then begin to disobey God's instructions and they are pressed out of the garden and sin begins to run rampant. We made it two whole chapters and God's very good creation in Genesis one and two become corrupted and sin enters the world. Sin begins to run rampant and people start doing all sorts of crazy stuff to the point that God regrets that he made humanity and he decides to give humanity a restart. So he sends a global flood to wipe out humanity plug in in two weeks. We talk about the flood for five nights at VDS check that up. So into the flood God calls a man who is still righteous and he says I'm going to call you to build a boat and on this boat. You're going to rescue land dwelling life. The man who built the arcs name is Noah Noah built the arc. He boards the arc with his three sons his wife and their wives. So quick math how many human beings were on the arc eight very good. See that's a question I didn't ask you before Jerry. I got to keep you on your toes. So those eight human beings they board the arc it rains for 40 days and 40 nights water covers the surface of the earth for a little over a year then it subsides. They leave the arc humanity gets a restart and I would love to tell you that humanity followed God's plan. But there's a whole lot more of the Bible left. So obviously that didn't happen. So then humanity continues to go its own way doing its own thing and God says okay, we got to do something different. So we fast forward to Genesis chapter 12 God finds a man living in Mesopotamia and Ur of the Chaldeans and he makes a covenant with this man and he says listen I'm going to be your God. You're going to be my people. I'm going to bless those who bless you. I'm going to curse those who curse you and I'm going to if you look around at this land, I'm going to give this land as a forever inheritance to your people. God then changes that man's name to Abraham and he becomes the first patriarch of the Hebrew people in the Jewish nation. Abraham has two sons and God repeats the covenant promise to Abraham's younger son named Isaac. Isaac then has two sons and God repeats the covenant promise to the younger of Isaac's sons. His name is Jacob. Jacob then has 12 sons. Their names will become the 12 tribes of Israel and we end the book of Genesis with Jacob's sons selling their younger brother into slavery. Basically because he didn't know how to keep his mouth shut right. He was young and he was arrogant, but he was also touched by God to do something very specific and God used sending into slavery to rescue them from a famine and that's the end of the book of Genesis. We fast forward into the book of Exodus. That's literally only the first book of the Bible first book of Exodus. God's people are now living in Egypt, but there's a Pharaoh who forgot who God was and who Joseph was and he enslaves the Jewish people and he starts to kill their babies. They cry out to God for a deliverer and God sends them a man who was born a slave raised in the palace, but did his work in the fields of Midian as a shepherd. God appears to this man in a burning bush and says you're going to go to Pharaoh and tell him let my people go. That dude's name was Moses. Moses his sister's name is and Moses his big brother's name is Aaron the three of them together. God uses them. They deliver God's people from Egypt. They leave they cross a body of water that parted and they walked on dry ground. The body of water is the the Red Sea. They go to the foot of a mountain where Moses goes up the mountain to receive the law from God. They go into Egypt as a family. They come out of Egypt as a nation and that nation is codified at Mount Sinai when they receive the law. That's why it's also called the Sinaitic covenant or the Sinai covenant. They receive the law while Moses is up on the mountain receiving God's law. The people are at the foot of the mountain worshiping an idol. Aaron literally tells them look worship this golden calf. This is the God who rescued you from Egypt the people who walked on dry ground days later worshiped a man-made symbol. That's how much idolatry is in the root of human beings. So needless to say God is not happy with this choice and they have to wander for 40 years in the wilderness before that for almost all of the generation that experienced the 10 plagues did not receive the land. I need you to understand that that was not God's desire, but that was his response to man's disobedience. So then they finally get a chance to move into the land. Moses is disobedient during the 40 40 year wilderness wandering. So he too is not allowed to enter the promised land. God raises up another young man who sat outside the tent of meeting who served Moses and God raises up in him a heart to lead the children of Israel. The young man who led the children of Israel into land of Canaan's name is Joshua. Joshua then takes command. He leads them in they begin to take over the land and yet they again they are disobedient. They do not move out all of the other people in the land and this causes another sin problem begin to intermarry. They begin to get involved in what's called syncretism where you take their faith and you mix in elements of other things. And so because of this everyone does what is right in their own eyes. That's the book of Judges. Everyone does what is right in their own eyes. Ultimately, they fully reject God's authority by asking him for something that all the other nations have that Israel was never supposed to have and that is I want a human King. That's right. Israel finally and fully rejects God's authority by asking him for a human King and the first human King of the United Monarchy of Israel is Saul. The second one is David and the third one is Solomon and then that's it after Solomon. There is Civil War. That's right. Long before Captain America and Iron Man. There was Israel and you for all my Marvel fans. There you go. So they have Civil War and God's people who are in 12 tribes break off and there are 10 tribes in the northern Kingdom of Israel and two tribes in the southern Kingdom of Judah. And this is the way it is for the majority of the Old Testament. They live as two separate nations. Sometimes they fight with each other. Sometimes they fight other folk, but they still have a disobedience problem. They still are not living according to God's design. And so he has to give them a timeout and God brings an external pagan nation in to defeat the northern Kingdom of Israel and carry them off into captivity. That external pagan nation is Assyria while they are in Assyria. Assyria falls to another young up-and-coming Kingdom. That Kingdom is Babylon. Babylon finally comes in and invades the southern Kingdom of Judah and destroys them and carries destroys the temple and carries them off into captivity. And that starts the 70 years that God will have his people in captivity in pagan land. And we know it's 70 because it was during that period when they were carried off that the prophet Jeremiah his books in the Old Testament. You can read it. He sends a letter to the captives in Babylon. So this is Jeremiah writing to Daniel Shadrach Meshach Abednego those dudes and he's saying saddle up buckle in you guys are going to be here for 70 years. Let your sons marry. Let your daughters marry build houses plant gardens do what is good for the city. I will come back for you in 70 years. So that's when God's timeout for his people were over and that timeout is triggered by the nation of Babylon falling to a third pagan nation. And that nation is Persia Persia defeats Babylon and allows the the exiles to go home. So there's your Ezra. There's your Nehemiah. They begin to rebuild the walls. They begin to rebuild the temple. There are a few prophets at the back of the Old Testament and that leads us to the book of Malachi and in Malachi. God makes a promise to his people. I'm going to send you a Messiah. That means an anointed one my promised one and you'll know it's him because he's going to have a dude who comes before him and he will prepare the way and that's the way the Old Testament ends. The Old Testament ends with the anticipation that God has not forgotten his people. And then he's going to send a promised an anointed Messiah and then there is silence for a long time. How many years of silence between the Old Testament and the New Testament 400 years? God does not speak to his people for 400 years. There's no angelic visitations. There's no new prophets who have a word from God. There's no new scripture for 400 years. God is silent. Now history is not silent. There's a lot that happened during that period. There's a dude named Alexander who was pretty great. He rose up. He started an empire. He died right then his kingdom gets broken up and then for a while the Jews are free and then they're conquered by these guys named the Seleucids and then they're under their then they rebel against them. That's like the period of the Maccabees. If you're familiar with that word that happens in there and then up and comes Rome and Rome conquers everybody. So by the time the pages of the New Testament begin the Roman Empire has conquered much of the known Mediterranean world pagan idol worship is the law of the land and the Jews are permitted to have their own religion even in the midst of the pagan culture. God have used Rome to allow them to keep their faith. They were allowed to have their temple. They were allowed to have their sacrifices, but they paid taxes to Rome and it's in this system that one day there's a there's this priest and he's working at the temple and he's chosen by Lot to go in and burn incense before the Lord. So he's the only person in this very holy room and into this room. God sends an angel and the angel shows up and what's the first thing angel says do don't be afraid. It's first thing every angel says don't be afraid and then the angel reveals to this priest. You're going to have a son even in your own age. I know you and your wife y'all are old don't go home and tell her that I'm telling you that y'all are old and you're going to have a son and he's going to be very special and he's going to be dedicated. To the Lord from birth and he is going to prepare the way for the promised Messiah the name of that priest is Zechariah the name of his very special promised son is John the Baptist. Then God sends another angel to speak to a young woman pledge to be married to a dude named Joseph and says you will conceive and give birth and he will be the holy one the son of God that young woman's name is Mary. Her husband's name is and they're very special son's name is Jesus kind of a big deal right so then Jesus is born Jesus grows up. He's a he's baptized by his relative cousin John the Baptist. He ministers under the power of the Holy Spirit drawing drawing the children Israel back to the kingdom of God trying to get them to live according to God's way spoiler alert. It doesn't go really well. They reject him they ultimately crucify and kill him and that would have been on see the resurrection was the night 9 8 7 so on April the 7th 80 30 they crucified Jesus. He's in the tomb 7 he's in the tomb 8 Sunday April the night he resurrects then he appears to his disciples and his followers and for 40 more days. He teaches them about the kingdom of God and whatever he taught them in those 40 days transformed them from scared afraid disciples who were hiding for fear of also being murdered to people who are willing to die for the message of Christ. Then the book of acts begins Jesus goes onto the Mount and he says don't go anywhere yet y'all have all the learning but you need one more thing don't leave the city of Jerusalem. Because you're going to get a gift that my father has sent you and in Acts chapter 2 there are only upper room and what what falls on the church in Acts chapter 2 that was promised by Jesus the Holy Spirit. It's that moment that the church that you and I are part of is born in Acts chapter 2 the Holy Spirit falls in Jerusalem. And then Christianity begins to grow out from Jerusalem in fact acts 1 8 which is largely the kind of like the table of contents for the book of acts Jesus tells his disciples to go Jerusalem Judea Samaria and severe it's an outward spiral that they were going to take the message as that message begin to spread. Christians needed instruction and I would argue that the best author for the book of James is the half brother of Jesus himself the son of Mary and Joseph the carpenter was interesting he didn't become a believer until after the resurrection. But he became the leader in the church in Jerusalem and the book that we're studying is written by the half brother of Jesus 15 to 25 years after the resurrection event and if my math is correct this is quite possibly the very first book of the New Testament. What you and I are studying is the very first scriptures the Holy Spirit revealed for his New Testament church now those of you who have the catalyst app I'm going to ask you to pull it out because you'll see this announcement at the top it's blue and there's a white white notebook it says sermon notes if you click on that it's going to go ahead and load interactive sermon notes so that you can follow along if you're joining us online you can also do this like let's say you're watching on a laptop a tablet or your TV unfortunately because some of you are watching this on your laptop or your TV. So if somebody asks can I watch the live stream and fill in the notes at the same time yes as long as you watch the live stream on something that's not your phone so if your phone is what you're watching on just follow along with me and we'll get you hooked up but I wanted to give you because it's super important when you remember the audience so the first fill in here the audience of the book of James is faithful believers scattered in pagan lands faithful believers scattered in pagan lands remember Rome still controls the world pagan idol worship is not just accepted it is the law of the land they have to pay their taxes to pagan temples and as they are striving to live this whole spirit spirit-filled New Testament church life it's into this environment that James writes his letter so the first thing I want to do is I want to read James chapter 4 verses 4 to 17 that's where we're at James chapter 4 4 to 17 let's read it together and then we will go back through fill in the blanks and chop it up so here we go James chapter 4 starting in verse 4 you adulterous people don't you know that friendship with the world means enmity against God therefore anyone who chooses to be a friend of the world becomes an enemy of God or do you think the scripture says without reason that he jealously longs for the spirit he has caused him to be? he has caused to dwell in us but he gives us more but he gives us more grace that is why scripture says God opposes the proud but shows favor to the humble submit yourselves then to God resist the devil and he will flee from you come near to God and he will come near to you wash your hands you sinners and purify your hearts you double minded grieve mourn and wail change your laughter to mourning and your joy to gloom humble yourselves before the Lord and he will lift you up brothers and sisters do not slander one another anyone who speaks against a brother or sister judges them or excuse me speaks against a brother or sister or judges them speaks against the law and judges it when you judge the law you are not keeping it but sitting in judgment on it there is only one lawgiver and judge the one who is able to save and destroy but you who are you to judge your neighbor? now listen you who say today or tomorrow we will go to this or that city spend a year there carry on business and make money why do you even know what will happen tomorrow what is your life? you are a mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes instead you ought to say if it is the Lord's will we will live and do this or that as it is if you boast in your arrogant schemes all such boasting is evil if anyone then knows the good they ought to do and doesn't do it it is sin for them and that's where we're going to stop James dropped a whole lot in those 13 verses so let's those of you who are following along in the fill ins here your first fill in godliness and worldliness are mutually exclusive godliness and worldliness are mutually exclusive any of you have ever taken logic or rhetoric mutually exclusive specifically means that if you are a you cannot be b and if you are b you cannot be a choosing one is automatically choosing the opposite of the other I like to think when I think of mutually exclusive situations I like to think about a light switch it's either on or it's not even some say well there's dimmers dimmers still on there's electricity going to light bulb it's still on we can compare whether it's a dim light versus a floodlight but the reality is on and off are mutually exclusive options so just think about that anytime you're mutually exclusive it's the difference between on and off so let's look at verse 4 you adulterous people isn't he so nice he's so gracious the way he opens up something else I do want to remind you is remember when scripture was written there were no chapter and verse notations right and there is no clear thematic break between where we're starting reading today and where we left off last week remember I told you verses 1 through 3 of chapter 4 are kind of a transition they match with this section and they match with the section before it so just keep in mind as we're going through this that the whole concept of the roots and fruits that we talked about last week which is really a doubling down on the concept of actions or works coming out of faith not replacing them he's still waxing in this in the same vein so when we're talking about roots and fruits we says here you adulterous people he's starting out saying that they are doing something outside of God's design right adultery by definition is intimacy outside of marital context by someone who's supposed to be married you adulterous people don't you know that friendship with the world means enmity against God stop this is so important and we often overlook it I think because we don't understand how God feels about us so all throughout the Old Testament when his people would worship foreign gods when they would mess around with other idols what was the analogy that God used adultery right why because they were cheating on him I mean straight up they were hooking up with other idols they were hooking up with other gods they were right that's exactly what it means and he is jealous not because he is jealous of the idol that's wrong no I have a jealous passionate love for a man for my wife why because the word my is in front of the word wife she's my wife she's not your wife if you need me to illustrate that we can pray with you after church outside but but do you see that like it's so obvious that anybody steps to Melanie they're going to pastor bill is out the door Jersey bill is up for sure hundred percent that's what but am I that way because I'm controlling of my wife no any of you know my wife she's an incredibly powerful godly woman but that incredible powerful godly woman belongs to me and only me and she's supposed to belong to me and only me which is why I'm justified in needing the right and left hand of fellowship if somebody comes from my wife but that's how God feels about us and we never think about it that way we never think about the fact well why is God so angry when they worship other idols why why should he be jealous of other idols I'm not jealous of other idols I'm jealous for my wife because she belongs to me God is not jealous because the other idols threaten his power or threaten his omniscience they threaten distraction they're distracting the one that he loves in the same way that I would consider it a threat if someone attempt to distract the woman that I love so when he opens this verse with you adulterous people he is opening with the idea that they still are understanding fidelity or faithfulness in their relationship with God so he's going to give an analogy that you know they're going to get he's just a you adulterous people and then he defines why are they adulterous people keep in mind who's he talking to first century believers scattered in pagan lands he is not talking to unbelievers he is talking to people who are members of the Christian Church and he says you don't you know that friendship with the world means enmity against God therefore anyone who chooses to be a friend of the world becomes an enemy of God this is super simple man if any of you let's say let's just say you catch me out in public somewhere I don't know Melanie's at work and I'm at a store and I'm picking up groceries and you caught me in the grocery store flirting with a woman who's not my wife after you're done calling my wife right because we all know that's actually I'm gonna punch you first then I'm gonna call you wife why because you understand I'm supposed to belong to her and you understand that she would be hurt if I gave any of my joy or affection that was designed for her and her alone to any other human female right and any of you were married you totally get that that is what they are doing to God in this verse is they are flirting with worldliness when they're called to godliness I would submit that we still have the same problem today that's also I want you remember that you remember the history here this is literally the first book of the New Testament and the New Testament Church still had a problem with flirting with the world instead of being fully dedicated to one God now they live in a time where there's lots of gods out there on display it doesn't matter how many other women are out there on display I only belong to my wife so to flip that it doesn't matter how many other idols are out there for on display we only belong to Christ it's not a numbers game the numbers one and it's always been just one so they need to understand that their actions of flirting with the world friendship with the world literally is becoming an enemy of God nobody flirts with other women and loves their wife at the same time sorry I just don't think you can do that I don't think you can fully love your wife the way God has designed you to love one woman and still flirt with another woman at the same time why because flirting with that other woman is being an enemy to my wife flirting with other gods is being an enemy to Christ then we get to verse five now he not only has he made the accusation and he's called him out for where they're at verse five or do you think that scripture says without reason that he jealously longs for the spirit he has caused to dwell in us so I got to take this in two halves because there's a little controversy in the back part Dino can you leave that up for me thank you so let's take the first part or do you think that scripture says without reason he jealously longs stop let's take that part and then I'll do the next part so the Old Testament describes God as a jealous God I think I've fully established why that is okay so that's the first half that I am that I'm a jealous God the second half he jealously longs for the spirit he has caused to dwell in us so there's a couple interpretive arguments to be had here in this verse so I kind of want to show it to you so Greek is a reflexive language so English is not a reflexive language so let me try to explain if I were to make a simple sentence dog bites man in that sentence which is the actor of the verb to bite the dog right and what is the object that got bitten man so in our language dog bites man and man bites dog are not the same does everyone agree is there anyone who thinks man bites dog and dogs bites man are the same right yes that's because you watch way too many Korean dramas okay so we'll just move on here's the trick with Greek you can move the words around it's the conjugation at the ends of the words that determine who the actor is and who the object is so in this sentence it's not super clear number one it's not super clear which spirit we're talking about and number two it's not super clear if the spirit is the agent of the jealous longing or if it is the object of the jealous longing okay is everybody with me so far so there and I will admit there's some debate and dispute about what exactly James is saying here so I'm trying to unpack all this for you so there's really three options here here option number one is which spirit there's two choices are we talking about the human spirit of life that exists within every human the the breath of God that was put into Adam that was handed down to every human being since then we're talking about that spirit or are we talking about the actual Holy Spirit some of your Bibles are going to translate that word spirit in English with a capital S and some of your Bibles are going to translate it with a lowercase s this is why because it's unclear in the verse if the word spirit is our individual human spirit or if it's the Holy Spirit second it's unclear if whatever spirit that is is the object of the jealous longing or the agent of the jealous longing and third the question would be depending on which spirit when did God cause the spirit to dwell in us right I know this is a lot but I really want to show to you so there's three choices for how this verse should read number one the Holy Spirit who indwells each believer jealously yearns for us so that God will give us more grace that's option one option two he meaning God jealously yearns for the Holy Spirit which indwells each one of us to give us more grace so it's God jealousy learning it's the spirit giving more to race or option three the human spirit which is indwelt within each one of us yearns for envy but it's God who wants to give us more grace all three of those translations are accurate to the text that's what makes this verse really tricky we got to decide which spirit who's doing the longing so I will tell you based on the context of the surrounding passage right we talked about fruits and roots last week the very preceding verse talks about humans choosing worldliness over godliness and the very preceding verse talks about the human worldliness over godliness I don't see spirit in this verse being the Holy Spirit I think spirit in this verse is our human spirit which experiences the conflict of worldliness to godliness the Holy Spirit does not experience the conflict of worldliness to godliness because he is God so if it is human beings experiencing the worldliness and godliness that conflict of friendship with the world verse French with God it makes more sense to me that the spirit in this verse is our human spirit not God which then asked the question is it our human spirit that is jealously longing or is it that God jealously longs for our attention well that makes sense with his perspective from the Old Testament God desires that humans choose him instead we still choose our own envy and our own jealousy and everything else so it could be that it is God jealously longing for our attention that would match the Old Testament it also could be that our human spirit jealously like longs for worldliness because that's the preceding verse and then ultimately there's no question it is God who gives the grace so now Dino give me that verse one more time and let's look at it for scripture says he excuse me do you think scripture says without reason that he jealously longs for the spirit he has caused to dwell in us what I think he is saying is based on the fact that worldliness and godliness are mutually exclusive that choosing the world is choosing enmity with God do you a not know that God is a jealous God and B do you not know that he jealously longs for us for the spirit that he caused to dwell in us he jealously longs for the attention of his people that matches the surrounding context and the Old Testament context of God's character so that's what I think that verse means now does that mean that these other possibilities aren't there they totally are and depending on what Bible you look up some of them are going to capitalize that s some of them are going to lower cap that s because the translators have to make interpretation as they go in order to make it the best possible this verse took a while for me to wrap my brain around and I'll just say this I welcome you to have other views of it I'm going to teach that that verse in context is James doubling down on the fact that we as humans we struggle with the exclusivity of worldliness godliness God desires our attention but we're stuck desiring sin that to me make sense of the surrounding context and the character of God but I wanted you to see that because it's part of his argument here if you look at verse four don't you know that friendship the world is empty with God verse five don't you know that he jealously longs for the spirit that he is caused to dwell in us and now we get to verse six but he gives us more grace that is why scripture says God opposes the proud but shows favor to the humble nobody is questioning that God is the source of grace like no one period questions that but what is the grace that he gives us well the grace that he gives us is that is why scripture says God opposes the proud but shows favor to the humble this verse rocked my world is a young man because I'm sure it's no surprise I'm rather arrogant individual I was a whole lot worse twenty five years ago before I met Melanie else I'll just say that right now I was when I came across this verse Pastor Rick who many of you met when I first came Pastor Rick sat me down and taught me this verse he says bill I need you to understand one very important thing about ministry if you want to serve God for the rest of your life you've got to deal with your pride because being prideful makes God your enemy and he turned to this verse he says God opposes the proud having pride in your heart number one causes you to be selfish right causes us to choose worldliness over godliness causes us to choose the golden calf instead of the cloud at the top of Mount Sinai but because of we're choosing worldliness instead of God that put God against us so I'm just going to repeat what Pastor Rick said to me all those years ago the easiest way to put God on your side is to have humility the easiest way to make the God of creation your enemy is to be prideful that's pretty clear but the reason for it is the proceeding verses the context of exclusivity of worldliness and godliness and the context that he just belongs for us and yet when we choose God we choose worldliness over godliness out of our own pride we think and I will say this our culture today is steeped in pride to the point that I don't think they know it anymore so much of Western culture has to do with what makes me happy is what's best and what makes God happy is it all right so I know that was a lot in letter a let's get to be submitting to God is resisting the devil and submitting to sin is resisting God so submitting to God is resisting the devil and submitting to sin is resisting God look at verse seven submit yourselves then this is a continuation of that the exclusivity of worldliness and godliness God desires our attention so what do we do submit yourselves then you could also say well then submit yourselves to God resist the devil and he will flee from you please do not take this verse out of context this is not your like one and done fortune cookie for all spiritual warfare. Does that mean the verse isn't true no it is totally true but in context James is unpacking the exclusivity that we live in having to choose between worldliness and godliness worldliness is choosing sin is choosing Satan godliness is choosing Christ and choosing God so when we submit ourselves to God it is by definition resisting the devil why because you cannot be here and here at the same time when you submit to God you by default are resisting the devil and when you stay in the godliness camp you are not chasing the devil that makes sense you cannot have your sin and your Christ at the same time you have to put Christ on hold when you chase your sin and you put sin on hold when you chase Christ because of the way we started there mutually exclusive the words submit here is a military term and it literally means to give your obedience to. Submit means to give your obedience to I always love to point this out when we talk about parents and having children you can demand that your children obey you. You cannot demand that they submit to you. Submission has to be offered obedience can be threatened and demanded I grew up my parents just needed me to obey they didn't really care if I chose to submit or not they just needed to control my actions and obedience. Then I moved in with my uncle and things got dicey and then and then eventually got better but submission is something you choose to do you choose to submit when you enter the military right. When you enter the service you're signing on that you're going to submit to your commander whoever your leader is at that moment. You're volunteering that submission that's the word that's used here submit yourselves volunteer your obedience give it over to God. And you will resist the devil and he will flee from you verse 8 also come near to God and he will come near to you you notice it doesn't say come near to your favorite sin and God will come near to you. Can't do that can't go flirt with another woman and make my wife love me more that doesn't work come near to God and he will come near to you and then he doubles down on the purity here wash your hands you sinners purify your hearts you double minded. Both of those ideas wash your hands purify your hearts have to do in a Jewish mentality of ritual cleanliness before God right they had all kinds of ritual bathing ritual hand washing in the Old Testament to signify being spiritually clean before coming to God. That's all here together come near to God he will come near to you be ritually clean ritually pure you double minded literally die psychos die psychos is the word there. It's the same word used in James chapter 1 verse 8 of the one who believes and also doubts is the person with two minds. Verse 9 grieve mourn and wail change your laughter to mourning and your joy to gloom these are actions. Based on their understanding of their own righteousness these are the actions that James is trying to get the adulterous people that he opened this section with to realize bro you've been flirting way too much with the world you're not where God wants you to be. You shouldn't be proud of that you shouldn't find joy in that you need to make sure there's a clear distinction between worldliness and godliness take that joy of worldliness and realize that it's really gloom in godliness. Christians don't brag about sin we should be broken by. And that I would argue that includes the sin of others and that's super hard sometimes because it's super easy to look at somebody else and go well at least i'm not that bad I mean have you seen Steve lately. Right but we should be broken this for sin period because sin hurts everyone the corruption of our planet hurts everyone and then finally verse 10 humble yourselves before the Lord and he will forgive you. There's a really beautiful thing happening in the language here to humble yourself literally means to make yourself low. So what he's saying here is because of the mutual exclusivity of worldliness and godliness because God desires your attention. Because flirting with the world is cheating on God you need to change your attitude you change your heart you need to change that joy to gloom and you need to make yourself low so that he can be a good person to you. It flows together really beautifully it is all an impassioned call to get away from worldliness and step into godliness that brings us to letter C. Slandering believers and or the scriptures is above our pay grade. Slandering believers and or the scriptures is above our pay grade. Slandering believers and or the scriptures is above our pay grade verse 11 brothers and sisters this is a common thing in the book of James denoting sections or arguments. So this next section can be connected to what we just read but it's not nearly as connected as the one previous because brothers and sisters that's that word Adelphoi meaning the plural of Adelphos believers. Do not slander one another slander so I just want to be clear the word slander here doesn't necessarily mean like insulting someone to their face it more means talking bad about someone behind their back. What's the word we use for that in English. Gossip I would say that's the most common word that you and I think of but when you're gossiping about somebody you're not just talking about them when you're gossiping about them and you are tearing them down. Right sometime gossip about me like girl have you heard right that's not like that salon level gossip right you get 45 minutes somebody's like girl. God you need to news you heard a T right but this word here means to talk about someone behind their back and accuse them of bad things that's what slander means here so brothers and sisters all believers Adelphoi all believers do not. tear down or accuse people behind their backs. That's that's be a hyper literal translation anyone who speaks against that's the same Greek word slander anyone who talks bad about someone behind their back a fellow brother or sister or judges them speaks against same word slander speak same word slanders against the law and judges it. So here's what you need to understand. So here's what you need to understand. We are like 15 years into the Christian faith and June we are already backbiting and tearing each other down it's now been 2000 years and we're still kind of fighting the same fight. Not sure go on instagram and just look at preacher reels you will quickly find somebody's trying to say something good and somebody else is is. Copying that and tearing them down and telling you why you shouldn't listen to their false teacher and they're this and they're that we're still doing the same stupid thing that they were doing in Jerusalem in 8045. But here's what I want you to see is the why I want you to understand that talking bad about another believer behind their back is absolutely sinful and forbidden by the scriptures right here, but I want you to understand why why James is saying that look at the back half of verse 11. When you judge the law, you are not keeping it, but you are sitting in judgment on it and then look at the next verse verse 12 there is only one lawgiver and judge the one who was able to save and destroy, but you who are you to judge. So here's why you're not supposed to are not allowed to talk bad and judge another believer behind their back because you are not their judge. You do not hold the authority to rightly and fully judge the spiritual life of another believer. That's what he's saying now some of you going, but wait a minute doesn't the scriptures call us to correct fellow brothers and sisters. Yes, it does. Thank you Jerry for asking that's a wonderful point here's the difference. Here's the difference. This is not saying that you should not compassionately go to a fellow believer when you see them involved in something and talk to them one on one that's still allowed and required. We are supposed to hold one another to biblical standards that's why whenever you guys see that I do a baptism I always ask the next question. Have you given your life to Jesus absolutely do you accept the responsibility to live according to scriptures absolutely because it's our job as the church to help people do that. But this is talking about not and Steve since you're already in the hot seat i'm just going to pick on you let's say me and Steve we go out for like a Saturday we go do something. And I notice in spending time with Steve that there's a sin issue in his life and the Holy Spirit reveals it to me and I got to talk to him about it. That's a me and Steve alone level conversation right that's a private one on one yo bro do you know kind of thing. that's not me going out to lunch with Jerry and Jen the following Sunday and be like bro let me tell you how ungodly Steve is. The second one is slander the first one is love. But that's why it's done one on one it's done privately i'm not trying to embarrass him i'm not trying to expose him any sort of judgment i'm like bro been there done that, but I see something you don't see. I use this story all the time because it's the best example I have in my previous church. My family was very close to another family in the church who had children about the same age as Micah and Emily were so we spent lots of time around them. It became very apparent just in spending time with them that there were some rough patches in their marriage and so one time when he brought the kids over to the house. And I forget what the wife was doing, but he came over and he has really, really big like old school big boy redneck pickup truck. I said I texted me goes yeah man i'm on the way I met him in the driveway and I said wait stop stop get in the truck I gotta talk to you for a minute. And so I jump in the truck close the doors it's just him and me the cab and the Holy Spirit. You have to understand that this guy has a background as a lightweight boxer so there's a lot on the line for me to have this conversation. And I turned to him and I said bro listen I don't know what's going on, but this is what I see. I said but something's got to change because I'm not really comfortable with my wife and my children hanging around your family because I don't like the way you treat your wife. I said so one of two things are going to happen you're either going to hit me and we're going to scrap right here in this truck. Or you're going to tell me what the heck is going on in your marriage that you would treat your wife this way in public because if you treat her that way when my wife and I are around. I know you're treating her worse when you're at home behind closed doors. So we're either going to have a conversation or a conversation. And he was like wow I don't know that I've ever had anybody care about me that much. Ice broken and we had real to real talk about what was happening and then the Holy Spirit could do some work in their marriage. That's good that's godly that's care that's love that's concern that's not this that's not third party oh my God did you see the way he talks to her. I bet you he's probably beaten her behind the doors maybe we should call the cops right that's slander that's accusation face to face is love and it's good you know our problem is we don't like to be challenged. As believers we just want to believe that all of us are super righteous in and of our own scale and I'm already my own perfect shape of Jesus so just leave me alone. He is talking about when you decide to judge another believer behind their back you're not just judging them you are giving yourself the authority to judge them and do you know take me back in verse 12. You're not allowed to do that because why there is only one lawgiver and judge and one who is able to save and destroy since you cannot save another believer from hell maybe you should step off the judge podium. That's what he's saying that's the new international bill way of saying it you are not going to save anyone from hell you cannot save another person from their sins so how about you let the actual judge do his job and you just go to them as a fellow believer same pay grade. Same level don't stand in judgment over them come to them as a partner hey my bro I saw this are you okay like do we need to talk. Then we get to letter D. Over focusing on wealth is worldly and evil I don't think it's going to be hard now listen some of you say today or tomorrow we will carry on to this or that city spend a year there carry on business and make money. So let's just say really business is not wrong having a business is not wrong desiring to have a profitable business is not wrong. If that is the only thing that you live for it makes it wrong you see the difference he's not saying that having a business is wrong he is not saying doing business is wrong he is not saying growing a business is wrong look at verse 14. Why do you even know what will happen tomorrow what is your life you are a missed it appears for a little while and then vanishes if the only lens on your idea of worldly wealth or business is how good it is for you that's wrong because your life is but a missed. We talk about this in men's fraternity a couple weeks ago if you could see your whole life as your investment in the kingdom that includes when you go to work that includes how you spend your money that includes everything you do your relationships your family your friends your neighborhood any organizations you're in outside of work and church. If you viewed all of that through the lens of eternity you would make different decisions if it's only I'm viewing what's in it for me well I want to go stay for a year. I challenged the missions team I want them to plan a traveling missions trip for 2026 I said if you could find one for like Barbados that'd be really cool I bet you know what June I bet you would get a lot of people to sign up for a missions trip for Barbados. Maybe maybe not Mike but we'll work on it. If our only focus in this life is the wealth of this life you will die with nothing because the old adage is you can't take it with you. And there are so many people where we live right now who don't get the fact that our life is like a missed we live for you what maybe 8090 of few of us might be lucky enough to break into those triple digits and then you're gone and whatever it is you're going to be. And whatever money you earn in this life will either be spent paid or given to somebody else you don't take a stitch of it into the next kingdom here's what's interesting though how you invest the money in the time you have. Can store up treasures in the next life but how you spend in this life does not. The kingdom does not care what car you drive I just don't I don't think Jesus is going should have bought a Chevy right. But I do think Jesus is going hey you're my servant what did you do with what I gave you right holds every servant accountable. Then you get to verse 14 why do you not even know what will happen tomorrow what is your life you're a missed here than advantages 15 instead now he offers the alternative instead you ought to say if it is the Lord's will we will live and do this or that placing God's will over your will directs your business does that make sense. That's what he's saying he's not saying that I'm not going to let you walk out of this room or stop watching this live stream and get sucked into that poverty gospel mentality. That the poorer I am the godlier I am that is false that is heresy the reverse of it which is that more money I have means I'm more godly that's the prosperity gospel that's also false and heretical. The more godliness you have the more godly you are your checkbook doesn't matter to your godliness however your godliness should totally matter to the way your checkbook works that's what he's saying. Then we get to letter E our final filling this morning. Not doing the good we know to do is simple verse 17 if anyone then this is then it's like a summation of this argument if anyone then knows the good they ought to do and doesn't do it. If anyone then knows the good they ought to do and doesn't do it it is sin for them a couple things the then in this verse is linking all of this argument and I would argue it's probably the argument from all the way at the beginning in verse one. He's talked so much about the relationship of faith and works he's talked about the relationship of roots and fruits he's now talking about the exclusivity of worldliness to godliness this all fits and it's some mates right here if anyone then. Knows the good they ought to do and doesn't do it it is sin for them James knew his audience knew what good was. But he also knew they frequently chose sin. That sounds a lot like us today if I'm honest I think we often know that there are good things we often know what the good is that we should do doesn't do it so here's a simple fact. As believers if we to our beta scriptures we should do the good we know to do. That's hard because then you're now some of some of you think of me and. What kind of good have I missed. That's the question not what kind of good have you done but how many good opportunities did you walk by because you were too self absorbed how many good opportunities do we walk by because I didn't prep for it I know. I think it was a couple of months ago Jim and I were having a conversation about the strategies for how can we bless panhandlers how can we you can't always stop and pray for them when you're at a red light. And a strategy that I have to admit I did not come up with this I inherited it was a pastor friend that I knew he would go to like McDonald's or here maybe even Duncan because there's a lot of them and buy like $10 gift cards. And keep them in the console of his car that way when you stop somewhere you're not handing out cash but you're giving them food you're giving them something you know and I thought man that's such a great idea it allows me to do good it allows me to insulate risk. You know because that you always wonder and I have to admit I'm a super skeptical person so anytime somebody asked for help I think of the last 20 years of working in church where the phone rings at the church and it's only two things people want to sell you something or people want to ask you for money. That's almost always the way Miss Donna's phone rings. She's back there smiling because she does it's true. She's been answering that phone longer than I've been a ministry. It's the way it is and you get so cynical that you forget a verse like this that we are called to do the good we know we're called to be the force of Christ and good in this world. So if any of you are looking for a way to do that don't not do good because you think it comes with too much risk. Mitigate the risk and do the good anyway but here's what I need to understand if he is submitting the end of chapter four with this I submit to you he is referring to every good thing he has mentioned since chapter one verse one. That means he's mentioned have faith and do not doubt he's mentioned the roots and the fruits know what's great he's mentioned all of that because now Mike you can say listen Mike you knew. So now you got to go do the go and do the good that you know and how do I know you know it because I just taught it to you. So this verse comes with a whole lot of weight because it comes with everything that precedes it. So let me give you the takeaways we bring this in for landing here it is believers submission to God. Should be visible in their exclusion from worldly values and judgments. I am not saying that we adopt some sort of Christian isolationist mentality if you do that you'll never accomplish the great commission. If you don't have relationships on believers you can't share the gospel you can't live in the real world Jesus did not overthrow Rome when he established his kingdom. To use a modern day term Jesus established a grassroots movement that spread through relationship not hierarchy. He didn't have to overthrow Rome Jesus was God he knew the church would outlast Rome and we outlasted the Rome Romans the Turks the Ottomans. We outlasted Genghis Khan we outlasted the black plague smallpox covid the scarlet fever why because we serve a king who still sits on a throne. We have an everlasting king who desires our allegiance which is why we have to see godliness and worldliness as mutually exclusive. There is no way to be in both worlds you must choose one.