Let me give you the key thought that really holds the whole book of James together. From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the real world. I'm going to give a little background just so we can review where we're at. If this is your first time joining us for this series, if you go in the Catalyst app or on our website and go back to the very first sermon in this series, James 1.1, I gave a much more robust review of the history of the book. But here we go. There are four possible authors that have been theorized for the book of James. I believe the most likely candidate is James, Jesus' own half-brother. So this would be the son of Mary and Joseph the carpenter, Jesus' half-brother. He was a leader in the church at Jerusalem. The book of James was written between AD 35 and 47, 45. It was written within that first 15 to 17 years of the Christian faith. What's really interesting about that is James did not become a Christian until after the resurrection. And that's when he becomes a leader in the church at Jerusalem. And then who is James writing to? This is always important. You have to remember when we read the scriptures, you're reading a book that was written for you, but it was not written to you. It's written for you, but not written to you. So we have to understand who the text is actually written to. James is writing to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom are Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman Empire. If you're familiar with the word diaspora or diaspora, that's what that means. So your first fill-in, if you're going to use the fill-in in the app, the audience of James is faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. So the audience of James is faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. And I believe it's really important that we review that James 1.1. So here's the opening verse of the book of James. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes scattered among the nations, greetings. James, a servant of God to the Lord Jesus Christ, twelve tribes scattered among the nations. That's where I got that scattered for your fill-in. Jewish Christians are scattered throughout the Roman Empire. They're striving and struggling to live faithful to their God in the midst of a culture that is not. The Romans were polytheistic. Depending on what town you lived in might control what God or goddess that you worshiped. They had many worship practices that would have been forbidden and disgusting to first century Jews. And that is the audience that James is writing to. He's writing to a group of Christians who are trying to hold on to their heritage while living in a culture that is wildly departed from their worldview. I think that's pretty applicable for living today. No matter which country in the world you live in, we do not live in a religiously controlled society. We live in a free society in many countries. If you were a Christian in North Korea or China, we would be having a different applicatory lesson to try to find truth in the book of James. So with that as our base, the audience is faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. Today, I would like to share with you my sermon entitled, The Witness of Works. The Witness of Works. We'll be studying James 2, 14 to 26. So if you're following along with me, let's go to James chapter 2. I'd like to read the whole text upfront so you hear the whole thing and then go back to the beginning and start walking through it verse by verse. So here we go, James chapter 2, starting in verse 14. What good is it, my brothers and sisters, if someone claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can such faith save him? Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and daily food. If one of you says to them, go in peace, keep warm and well fed, but does nothing about their physical needs. What good is it? In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. But someone will say, you have faith, I have deeds. Show me your faith without your deeds, and I will show you my faith by my deeds. You believe there is one God, good. Even the demons believe that and shudder. You foolish person, do you want evidence that faith without deeds is useless? Was not our father Abraham considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son Isaac on the altar? You see that his faith and his actions were completely working together and his faith was made complete by what he did. And the scripture was fulfilled that says Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. And he was called God's friend. You see that a person is considered righteous by what they do and not by faith alone. In the same way, was not even Rahab the prostitute considered righteous for what she did when she gave lodging to the spies and sent them off in a different direction? As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without deeds is dead. So, let's rewind back here to verse 14 and let's take the bull by the horns. Here we go. Just in case you are unfamiliar, let me fill you in on what I'm about to address. So, there has been a long-standing debate within church and Christian circles that what James is saying about faith is in direct opposition to what Paul teaches about salvation being by faith alone. And they try to argue that James is presenting some sort of works-based salvation and Paul is presenting a faith-based salvation. And that's why the Bible is in conflict with one another and the Bible is not true. That is the accusation. I want to unwind for you and show you why there is in fact no conflict between James or Paul. So, let's go for 14. What good is it? Stop. I need you to understand the frame of the question he's asking, so we read the verse correctly. What good is it, my brothers and sisters? Oh, excuse me. Let me rewind. I forgot to give you the fill-in. So, the fill-in for this point is this. Good works flow from faith. Good works flow from faith. Verse 14 opens. What good is it? Literally, what good, what benefit, what advantage, what product, what good is produced? And then he says, my brothers and sisters, that's that single Greek word, would be a single brother or sister, the plural version of it literally means all believers. That's why it's important to always remember who he's writing to, right? You don't write a text message and then decide who to send it to. You figure out who you're sending it to and then you write the text. James is writing to all believers. And then he says this, if someone claims to have faith, the literal word that he uses here is to say or to tell. If someone talks, literally what they're doing is they are making a claim with no available evidence for support. And this is a huge thing I try to teach my children. Anybody can claim anything anytime. You could claim the earth is flat. You could claim the earth is round. You can claim the earth is a triangle. You can claim the earth's not the earth. I don't care what your claim is. You're free to claim anything you want. But thinking rational people evaluate claims based on the evidence. And if there are contradictory claims, only one of those claims can be true. A famous example of that is there is a God. That's us. That's Muslims. That's Jews. That's pretty much every single faith that believes in any kind of divine being. There is a God. And then there is no God. That's your atheist. In fact, your atheist is the only person who says there is absolutely no God. Well, if the atheist is correct, there is in fact no God, then that means us and the Muslims and the Jews and the Hindus and the Greeks and the Romans and the Aztecs and the Mayans. You see what I'm saying? If this person is right, then all of y'all are wrong. However, if there is in fact a God that doesn't make us and the Jews and the Muslims and the Aztecs and the Mayans all correct, it just makes the atheist wrong. If there is in fact a God, then we're justified in asking, well, which God? Who's God? What's your God's name? Where's he from? Does he have a gang sign? What kind of car does he drive? Right? Like, just because we proved there is a God doesn't mean we proved which God, but what it does is we prove there is a God, that means this guy's out. That's making a claim and providing evidence. So here, James is laying up the question, what good or what benefit is it if a person makes the claim that they have faith, meaning to trust, to believe. The word faith is the same as the word faith in chapter 1 verse 3, the word believe in chapter 1 verse 6, and the word believers in chapter 2 verse 1. It's all the same word. What good is it? What benefit is it? What advantage is it if you claim to have faith, but you provide no evidence, no action, deed or behavior? Can such faith save him? Can such faith save him? Here's what I think. And so my first point is, in this first verse, James is pointing out that good works flow from faith. If you're following along on the notes, I'm going to give you four reasons why our culture misunderstands this verse, and then I'm going to explain to you what it really means. So here we go. Four reasons why we misunderstand faith in works. Number one, our culture does not believe in a free lunch. Anybody ever heard the phrase, there's no such thing as a free lunch? You know where the phrase comes from? It's because insurance salesmen and other types of salesmen used to offer you, or excuse me, no, not insurance salesmen. It was a bar, and I want to say it was somewhere in New York. It was just post, what's the time where we made all alcohol illegal? Prohibition. Thank you. It was just post prohibition when alcohol was legal again, and you could get free drinks if you bought soup, right? So there's no free lunch. There's free lunch if you buy something. That's where the phrase, there is no free lunch comes from. Our culture doesn't buy the idea that you get stuff for free. Americans are built on the idea that we pick ourselves up, buy our bootstraps, we go to work, we get it done. We don't believe in the idea that things are just naturally free. It bothers us. It somehow grates against us. Second, our language equates the word save in this verse with salvation. Our language equates the word save. Every time you hear the word save in church, you are programmed to think that every instance of that word is talking about salvation. Does the context speak about salvation? Is James speaking of salvation in this passage? Those are the right questions. Well, is it the word save? Then it must mean salvation. Is the wrong statement. Number three, our theology is entirely focused on justification. If you grew up in America after the Great Awakening in the 20s and then another one in the 60s, we are like just theologically programmed. Justification, justification, justification. If you've never heard that word before, the word justification is the legal act of no longer being guilty of your sins before God. It's like going into court and standing before the judge and the judge says not guilty. Or if you're a Law and Order fan, dum dum. That's what justification is. Our entire soteriology or our study of salvation is overly focused on justification. And then number four, our cultural church practice is to bypass the verses context. We bypass the context because we're focused on the words. Here's the problem. Words do not correctly communicate meaning without context. I'll give you a great example. Somebody raise your hand and give me a definition for the word spring. Anybody? First hand, what's time of year? That's fantastic. Spring is the time of year. Somebody give me another definition of the word spring. Tom. Right, a coiled metal thing that compresses. That's a spring. So Emily in the back, another one. A body of water is another spring. Anybody have another one? To jump, right? So let's just take those four. If I throw the word spring at you and I ask you what does it mean? All four of you are correct. Technically. But once I put that word in a sentence and I were to say spring is my favorite time of year. Now only one definition in the semantic range or the range of what a word could mean. Only one definition is correct. So I'd have to throw out the jump. I'd have to throw out the coiled metal springy thing. That's a technical term by the way. I asked about it. And I'd have to throw out body of water. If I were to ask somebody can you swim in that spring? Right. Now I've changed definitions. Time of year is out. Coiled metal thingy is out. Jumping is out. Do you see why we can't just look at a word, define it and understand what it means? Words communicate meaning, but the meaning is communicated with other words. So our culture is we bypass the verses context. So let's be really clear about the context of this verse. What is the context? James is writing to believers. I know I'm harping on that, but I'm going to come back to it in a minute. James is writing to believers about maturity, temptation and sin and the practical nature of faith lived out. Here's the other mistake that almost everybody makes. When you read verse 14, you start at what good is it my brothers and sisters if someone claims to have faith but has no deeds can such faith save him? Verse 14 is not the beginning of the chapter. Why did we extricate verse 14 from previously verse 13? Doesn't it make the most sense that when James was writing he didn't stop and go, you know what? We should put a nice big break here. Let's interpret this verse with no other context. No, what he's saying is so when we when we get to 14 and we ask what good is it can such faith save him? We need to understand that the judgment of the preceding verse that's verse 13. We looked at it last week. The judgment featured in verse 13 is the Bema judgment, not the great white throne judgment. Because believers are not at risk of going to hell. If believers are at risk of going to hell, we got a huge problem with our gospel message. But if the context of verse 13 is the Bema judgment because the audience is only believers, then there is no point in seeing the word in this verse save be saving from hell when believers don't go there in the first place. And the preceding verse is the Bema judgment. Now, if you're unfamiliar with the word Bema, the Bema judgment is what believers go to at the end of their life. So there are two places to live in the afterlife. When you go to the afterlife, you will live in smoking or non-smoking. There are only two choices. Sorry, that's a really good joke and I only get to use it like every time this topic comes up. There's only two places that you go in the afterlife. Well, there's really technically four. You go to two and then you end up in another two. So let's talk about this. The afterlife happens. This life is over. After this life is over, you will either go to Paradise, which is like the waiting room for the new creation in heaven, or you will go to Hades. Hell is unpopulated. How do I know that? You read the book of Revelation when the devil and his angels, which is what hell was designed for, were cast out of heaven. Where'd they go? Where are the demons right now? Where do they live? On earth. They were not cast into hell. They were cast down here to earth. We live among them right now. Hell is completely vacant. It is unpopulated. No one goes to hell when they die. However, if you die without Christ, you go to Hades, which is the waiting room for hell. There is no second chance. If you go to Hades, you will end up in hell. If you go to paradise, you will end up on the new heaven and new earth with Christ. Period. End of story. That's why it's important to understand final destinations, but they're both like have these little waiting rooms. If we are only talking about believers, there's no option of going to Hades or hell because all believers go to paradise. You see what I'm saying? So the idea that we misread this verse as if James is saying anything about salvation is because we're built on the idea that saved has to mean salvation. We're built on the idea that our theology is all about justification, and we disconnect 14 from the preceding verse 13. The save in verse 14 is linked to the mercy of verse 13 to be experienced by the believer at the final life book judgment, which we call Bema, by King Jesus before eternity. Verse 14 has nothing to do with salvation. It is a misread of the text to assume that the word save automatically means salvation. You've extricated it from everything he's talking about. So what does it really mean? Let's go back. Can you bring me verse 14 one more time, Eric? What good is it in light of the Bema judgment, in light of the Jesus is going to open up the book of the actions of your life and judge the way your life is gone? What good is it? What's the purpose of the Bema judgment? The Bema judgment is the reward ceremony. It's where you are rewarded for the actions of your life, and then that's what you're rewarded with to go into eternity. So when he says, what good is it, he's referring to what good will it be for you at the Bema judgment if you, brothers and sisters, any believer, what good is it for you at the Bema judgment, Mr. or Mrs. Believer, if someone claims to have faith but has no deeds? That makes a whole lot more sense. When you see it in light of its correct context and its correct audience, there is zero conflict with salvation by faith because James is not talking about salvation at all. There's nothing else in this entire chapter where James is talking about salvation. The judgment is the Bema judgment. The mercy is the mercy of Jesus when he interprets the actions of our life in order to give us whatever our rewards will be in the next life. Even though this verse is, and here's the problem, if you misread the verse and you start verse 14 and you don't see everything about maturity and everything that we've come into, he's writing to believers the option of going to hell is already off the table. So what good is it? What good will it do you at the Bema judgment, my brothers and sisters, if you claim to have faith but have no deeds? Can such faith save you? What does he mean safe? Can such faith, can such faith? Yep, I speak good words. Can such faith save you? What am I being saved from? I'm being saved from unmerciful judgment at the Bema judgment. I don't know about you, but I want Jesus in a good mood when he opens the book of my life because there's a couple chapters that I'm not super proud of, right? There's a couple scenes in a couple chapters I wish I could go back and erase or redo. I'm probably not the only one, but you don't have to raise your hand. I'm hoping Jesus feels merciful in that moment when he opens the life book of Bill. He goes, woo! Right? That's what that means. He's not talking about being saved by good deeds. What he's saying is it will do you no good at the Bema judgment when the rewards of your life for eternity are tabulated if all you did was give lip service to people and you didn't actually step up and make a difference. And now he's going to give some examples, right? So that's why we misunderstand. There's no conflict between James and Paul because he's talking to believers and the judgment is the Bema judgment, not eternal hell. Here we go. Here's your next fill in the blank. Letter B, the talker. He's going to give a couple examples of what not to do. The first example here I'm labeling the talker. This is verses 15 to 17. Suppose, notice the suppose. This means this is an example. Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and daily food. Stop. Suppose, let's you know that this is an example of what he's talking about. Brother or sister, that's Adelphos, a fellow believer, someone in the church. And number three is without clothes and food. These are practical needs. These are practical needs that can be shared to solve. And how do I know that? If you look at Acts chapter two at the very end when the church is born, somewhere around verse 40ish. I'm going to go 40, 41, 42, but I'm pulling it from memory. Acts chapter two, somewhere in the 40s, you will see what the believers did. The believers met together for prayer, for worship, the apostles teaching, and they shared all that they had so that no one was in need. That's the background that happened in Jerusalem. James is a teacher at Jerusalem. He understands this. He understands how the church treated each other. So his first example, I call the talker. This is somebody who says, oh, I see a brother or sister with a practical need, but verse 16, if one of you says to them, go in peace, keep warm and well fed. That's basically saying, but does nothing about their physical needs. What good is it? What James is saying is if you are presented with a believer who has a physical need, in this case, food and clothing. There was no social services system in first century Rome. If you starved to death, you died and they threw your body in a hole. That's it. It didn't matter. Your life was so cheap in the Roman Empire. They didn't care. If you didn't have money, they didn't care. There was no social system to help you get groceries. Nope. If you didn't have money, you sold yourself into slavery and your slave owner would then at least pay you because a malnourished slave doesn't work as hard. So they're going to give you food and they're going to give you clothing and try to keep you healthy because they're going to work you to death. But at least you live longer. So what good is it if when you see someone with a practical need, you speak to them. Interestingly, the word says to them in verse 14 is the same as the word claim, or excuse me, says to them in 16 is the same Greek word as the word claim in verse 14. It's just wind. It's just talking. If one of you speaks to them, oh man, I hope you find somebody who will give you some food. Man, I will pray for you. I pray that somebody gives you clothing. Man, brother, man, trials are hard. I've been there. I will pray for you. But does nothing about their physical needs. What good is it? Same question from verse 14. What good is it when? What good is it when the actions of your life are reviewed by Jesus at the Bema judgment? If all you do is talk, that's what he's saying. Then 17, in the same way, now the analogy is applied to us in the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. Now this is where, again, people try to say that he's talking about salvation. There is nothing in this verse talking about salvation. 13 was not about salvation. So in the same way, faith by itself, if not accompanied by action, is dead. The verse 17, faith by itself not accompanied by action, is the baseless claim of faith from verse 14. You see that? That's all the example. So his first example is called the talker, somebody who just talks good words at you but does nothing different. Letter C, your fill-in is the tasker. This is somebody who has a very, very works-based, I'm going to do stuff kind of faith, the tasker. This is James 2, just verse 18. But someone will say, now we're talking about a different somebody, not the somebody over there who just talks and does nothing. This is a different somebody. But someone will say, well, you have faith, I have deeds. Let me explain what their argument is. This is a different example. That person over there talks and does nothing. This person over here does lots of things but has no faith. There's a difference. That person says all the good words but does no good actions. This person over here does lots of good actions but has no faith. Why is that? Because this person still goes to hell. That's the problem by getting the whole salvation and bemophane confused. This person may have faith, which means they will eventually end up in the new heaven and the new earth with Christ and us, with no rewards because they did nothing to earn them. This person could do all the good, right things in the world, but if you don't know Jesus, you still go to hell. This person is still lost. And here's the problem we have as Christians today. We think that we are somehow better than other people because we have Jesus. No, we're saved. That's it. Me having a relationship with Jesus makes me no better than any other human being. It just means that my eternity, I have a reserved seat in the non-smoking section of eternity. And this person over here, listen, because a common argument made against Christianity, especially from atheists, we argue that you can't have quality moral standards without God. You cannot have objective moral standards without God. And the atheist will come back and say, so you're saying I can't be a good person without God? No, I didn't say that. You can totally be a good person. And you can, you know, you could like have the whole Sarah McLaughlin commercial and save the hurting animals. And you cannot cheat on your wife and you can give lots of money to charity and you can still go to hell because you don't know Jesus. That's this person over here. This person over here is trying to either illustrate how good of a person they are by the good actions that they do or they're trying or worse. They're trying to buy their salvation by doing good things. Andy Stanley wrote a book years ago called How Good Is Good Enough? When it comes to question, well, how good is good enough? Well, you know, the common thought is, well, God will let me into heaven if I'm 51 percent or greater good. OK, and who's the ruler on that one? What measuring stick are we deciding what good is? And it is interesting how how everyone when they measure their own selves always measures themselves as greater than 51 percent. Right. Every single person when they measure yourself. Of course, I'm a good person. That person over there is not a good person. Well, there can only be one object of standard of good. And if it's truly objective for all humankind, it has to be outside of humanity. So this verse 18, this person, well, you have faith. I have good deeds. Here's James's response. Fine. Show me your faith by doing nothing. Show me your faith without any good works. And I will show you my faith by or I will show you my deeds by my faith by my deeds. Excuse me. It would be helpful if you just read it, wouldn't it? Show me your faith without deeds. And I will show you my faith by my deeds. James is correcting the person who thinks that doing good works is enough. And he's saying it's not enough. All the good works in the world without Jesus still send people to hell. That is the gospel. We have to get comfortable saying it. And if we can't be if you're not comfortable communicating the gospel, I got news for you. In a couple of weeks, I will be launching. So many of you know I'm in school and I'm doing my doctoral project. My doctoral project, eight week online class only on the gospel. I'm going to invite everybody in the church to take it because you guys are all going to help me finish school. My research project. So if you're not familiar with the gospel, I have a solution for you. I've been building an entire eight lesson online class for lessons on the theology of the gospel and four lessons on apologetic defense of the gospel. You will be prepared to communicate the gospel. I promise. So if you're not familiar, just give me a couple more weeks. It's coming. I promise. But this person in verse 18, the tasker, they are replacing faith by deeds. Well, if you replace faith by deeds, you'll never make it to the Bema judgment. You'll go to the great white throne judgment and go to hell. You'll never make it over here to the Bema judgment, which is why you got to fix it. Then letter D. This is the person I call the thinker. This is verse 19. This is the thinker. James chapter two, verse 19. You believe there is one God. I love the sarcasm in this verse. I realize it's only written down. He's like, you believe in one God? Good. It's very, very Jersey of him. Right? Fine. You believe there's one God? Good. Whatever. Even the demons believe that. This is what happens when you hire an ADHD pastor who went to theater school. Sorry. You believe there's one God? Good. Even the demons believe that and they shut up. Reflects that Maria's not even here today. She's my Jersey person. So you believe there is one God? Good. Even the demons believe that and shut her. Why is it important that he keys in on this idea of you believe in one God? Who's his audience? First century Jewish Christians. Why is it important to bring up one God? Because the there is one God is the foundational statement of what's called the Shema from Deuteronomy chapter six. Hero Israel, the Lord your God, the Lord is one. Jews pride themselves on believing there's only one God. Now in our culture today, that seems like kind of a normal thing, right Rob? So if you meet a Jew, they're going to believe there's one God. You meet a Muslim, they're going to believe there's one God. You meet a Christian, they're going to believe there's one God. We got a different name, right? So you meet a Jew, they're going to call him Yahweh. If they would say it out loud. They may just say Adonai, which is a word for God, but not actually his name. You meet a Muslim, they're going to call God Allah, or Allah, right? They have a different name for him. You meet a Christian, God is Jesus. And the Holy Spirit, and God the Father, right? We have different claims, but why is it important that you say there's only one God? Because James is not writing to a church in 2025. James is writing to the New Testament church in the middle of the Greco-Roman Empire of the first century when there was a plethora of gods. When somebody says I believe in God, they're able to say yeah, which one? That would be the question. Well which God? Well I worship at the temple of Artemis, slash Diana. Okay, cool. I worship at the temple of Aries, slash Mars. Okay, cool. I mention at Poseidon, slash Neptune. Okay, cool. Right? It goes on and on and on. There's the only three that I can remember, all three names, so that's all you get. I've got to go back and read Percy Jackson, maybe I'll remember more. So when he says here you believe there is one God, this is another correction. The first correction was the guy who says stuff and does nothing. The second correction was the guy who does stuff but has no faith. The third correction is the guy who thinks he's good enough because he believes one simple thing. Well I believe there's one God. Congratulations. The demons believe that and they shudder. Here's the point. Believing that there is a God does not lead to salvation if we are right. The apologist in me has got to add that. If we are right as Christians, now if we are wrong, if we are wrong and another religion is right, I'm really going to shake your boots if you grew up as a Christian. If we're wrong and another religion is right, then we're the ones that go to that version of hell. Right? Does that make sense? If Christians are wrong about the nature of reality, who God is and what salvation is, and we are fully committed to Jesus, but Jesus is not right and it's a different religion, then we end up in that religion's version of hell. However, if we are right and Jesus is God and he rose from the grave to prove it, then everyone who doesn't place their faith in Jesus goes to hell. There's no world in which everybody goes to heaven. I know everybody, I know in our modern pluralistic relativistic culture, everybody wants to go and saying there's only one way to heaven and it's the other way around. There's only one way to heaven and it's super uninclusive. No, claiming that everybody's religion says the same thing is incredibly insulting and ignorant. You put a Jew, a Muslim, a Christian, and a Hindu at the same table. We might all like nachos, but we ain't agreeing about eternity. Claiming that all religions go to the same place is actually the most ignorant claim you could make. Jesus, what is he saying? Believing that there is one God would have made them very different from their surrounding culture. Their surrounding culture believe in lots of gods. He's saying just believing in one God is not enough. Why? Because the majority of his audience are Jewish Christians. And Jewish Christians say, well, I'm good enough because I believe there's one God. No, we have to place our faith in Jesus because he is the new covenant. James is challenging the root of their culture and their faith. And he's saying, listen, the demons know there's one God. They still go to hell. Don't miss it. And then here we go. Letter E, which I apologize on your notes. I forgot to put the letter E. It says the Old Testament evidence. Now James will provide the evidence. Remember when he started, he said, what good is it to say something and have no deeds? Here you go. Here's the evidence that I'm going to present. And I'm also going to tackle another like super big problem that people have with Christianity. I was very excited when I wrote the sermon. I hope it comes across. Here we go. The Old Testament evidence, James chapter two, starting in verse 20. You foolish person. Stop. That kind of sounds empty in our language. You foolish person. We don't really use foolish as an insult anymore. The word that he's actually using in the Greek means vain, empty or empty handed. You person that has nothing to show. That's what he means. Empty, empty handed. You empty, empty handed person. Do you want evidence that faith without deeds is useless? Fine. Here you go. Let me show you. Was not our father Abraham? No. Somebody grew up in VVS got that joke. Sorry. Three people. Thank you. Was not our father Abraham considered righteous for what he did? Why again does he key in on Abraham? Because he's writing to first century diaspora Jewish Christians. So he uses Abraham as his primary archetype and example. Was he not considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son on the altar? Now, those of you taking notes, write this down. Genesis chapter 22 verses one through 19. No, Jen, I'm not going to read it all. I promise. But I want you to have the text of it because I want you to understand the argument. You have to understand the story and it gives me an opportunity to bat down on their huge arrow that's often thrown at Christianity. So if you are unfamiliar with the story that's being referenced here, this is the Mount Moriah moment where God speaks to Abraham. And he says, Abraham, go to Mount Moriah and offer your son on the altar to me. For then I will know that you fear me. This is another verse that a lot of non-Christians and people outside the faith, they want to come at us and go. Your God asked his dude to sacrifice his kid. I can't worship a God like that. Well, OK, let's talk about the context here because, again, take one verse out of context. You can make it mean whatever you want. So was not our father Abraham? Why is he considered Father Abraham? Because the audience is diaspora Jews. Was he not considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son Isaac on the altar? So here's a few interpretive keys you need to understand to understand the Moriah moment. God is not, let me say this again, God is not a moral monster for asking Abraham to do this action. And I'm going to show you why. Number one thing you need to understand before the Mount Moriah moment, which is, again, Genesis 22, 1 to 19, Abraham is already in covenant relationship with God. That's very important. Abraham is already in covenant relationship with God. This is not him buying his faith, right? Because if you wanted to believe that James is talking about deeds equaling salvation, you would have to believe that the example used by the author was Abraham buying his salvation at Mount Moriah. But that's not where the covenant began with Abraham. It began seven chapters earlier in chapter 15 with the super weird fire pot through the halves of meat moment. If you're familiar with the book of Genesis, if you're not, go read chapter 15. It's crazy weird. Call me and I'll explain it. But verse 15 is where the covenant is created, which means when chapter 22 opens and God asks Abraham to bring Isaac up to Mount Moriah, he is already in covenant relationship with God. Number two, Isaac is already the son of promise, right? If you think back to your story, your Genesis history, God told Abraham you're going to have a son, and through your son, we're going to build a mighty nation. And James already had a son, so he took Ishmael, or excuse me, James, Abraham already had a son. He took Ishmael, he brought him, he said, God, I already got a kid. Make a nation over here. And God said, no, I told you she would have a son. I told you Sarah would have a son and her son through whom, right? Anybody remember that story? Am I the only one that remembers Genesis? We're going to have to do a whole series. Thank you, Micah. Micah remembers Genesis. That's because my son listens to the audio Bible every time he plays video games. It's super awesome. You see him, he's got the VR headset, he's in the living room. He's either in combat or he's playing with light sabers. And in the background, and the fourth chapter of Genesis. Just a little picture of my house on a Tuesday. But Isaac was already the son of promise. God had already said, no, I promised descendants through this kid. Which means when Abraham walked up the mountain, he knew God had already promised Isaac would have children. Isaac's not married yet. That means in order for God's word to be true, my son will come back down this mountain. Don't believe me. Go read Genesis chapter 22. Look specifically at what Abraham says to his servants. When they leave, they pack up the wood, right? They travel to the bottom of Mount Moriah. He leaves the servants at the foot of the mountain. Isaac huffs the wood on his shoulder. Remember, we're not talking about a five-year-old. We're talking about a young man who could have fought his father off if he wanted to. Isaac walks up the mountain. Abraham turns to his servants and says, My son and I will be back. Abraham walked up the mountain knowing Isaac was coming back down the mountain with him. Didn't know the how, but knew the who. Because God had already promised descendants through Isaac. So number one, Abraham is in covenant relationship. Number two, Isaac is the son of promise. Number three, the future kingdom was already promised through Isaac. The future kingdom was already promised through Isaac. And number four, Abraham had to actively trust in God's promises as he walked up the mountain. This is the context of the Abraham passage when you get it right. When you get it wrong, it sounds like God is into child sacrifice. Well, that doesn't work because he is against child sacrifice when they move into the land of Canaan. And God doesn't change. So he's either...and again, that's why they'll point out, well, your Bible is contradictory. No, it's not contradictory. You just don't know how to interpret correctly. That's what it is. There's no conflict. You're just not interpreting the passage correctly. You're picking out the part you want to use it as a barb. And you're not looking at the full breadth of the multi-chapter saga that's going on. So how is this indicative of what he is saying? Here it is. Like Abraham, believers are already in covenant relationship. Like Abraham, Jesus is the son of promise through which the covenant is fulfilled. The future kingdom now comes through Jesus, not Isaac. And therefore, Christians must actively trust in Jesus. The example that James uses is brilliant because he used one that was culturally relevant to his people. So you see here 22. You see that his faith that's in the covenant that he had with Yahweh established in verse 15 and his actions, the going up the mountain with his son from chapter 22, were completely working together and his faith was made complete by what he did. The working together there literally is synergeo. It's the same way we get our word synergy to work in perfect together. And then 23. This one blew my mind as I was writing my sermon this week. And the scripture was fulfilled. It says Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness and he was called God's friend. The number of times I have heard that verse used to establish that Abraham was established as righteous on Mount Moriah. That Abraham's covenant relationship with God was established on Mount Moriah, chapter 22, because he was willing to sacrifice his son. That is not true. Because the covenant was established seven chapters earlier, chapter 15, when God was the flaming fire pot through the halves and all that fun jazz. See, because the Old Testament covenant was installed by God. It couldn't be installed by man. So James is saying exactly what Paul is saying. Abraham was not saved by his actions on Mount Moriah. He did the actions on Mount Moriah because he was saved in chapter 15 and he walked it out in chapter 22. In the same way, you and I are saved in a moment of justification, but we walk out sanctification every other day for the rest of our life. We are saved by faith in one day and we live by faith every other day after that. That's how they work together. And when you see it in context, it completely makes sense. Abraham is the opposite of the example of the person making the baseless claim. Abraham is in covenant relationship and then walks it out. Then you get to verse 24. You see that a person is considered righteous by what they do and not by faith alone. If the example here is the Mount Moriah incident, which it is, this verse cannot be used to talk about Christian salvation because Abraham didn't experience Christian salvation, number one. Number two, Abraham was already in covenant relationship when he went up the mountain. It can't be about salvation. Nothing in this chapter is. He was considered righteous. Abraham is not saved at Mount Moriah. Abraham's salvation is before when he trusted in the covenant. Genesis 15 is justification, 22 is sanctification. And then he gives a second example just in case you missed it. In the same way, it was not Rahab the prostitute considered righteous for what she did when she gave lodging to the spies. You know what I love about this example? In this chapter, James gives you a completely Jewish example of salvation by faith and actions to come from it and a Gentile example of salvation by faith and actions to come from it. He covers the whole gambit of his audience. Yes, the majority of his audience were Jewish Christians, but by 45 to 47, 49, there were Gentiles becoming Christians. He makes sure those of you taking notes right down Joshua chapter two, verse nine. That's Rahab's faith statement. She said, I know the actual quote is I know the Lord has given you this land. Her action of hiding the spies was already downstream of her placing her faith in Yahweh. I know that God has given you this land. Then we get to 26 as the body without the spirit is dead. So faith without deeds is dead. Keep in mind, what is a human being? God made it. He made two part human being, right? We're part physical. That's the dust. We're part spiritual. That's the breath of God. What he's saying is once the spirit leaves the body, the body is dead. He's saying your faith is empty without actions. You reach the Bema judgment. Jesus is not going to ask you if you felt good about your faith every day. I mean, you feel me, Anthony? He's not going to sit there and go, man, you were in that field on Tuesday, weren't you? You were rocking out to that worship song in traffic. You didn't even get mad when that guy forgot his blinker. Really? That's what you think the king of kings is going to evaluate your life on? No, he is going to evaluate your life based on the actions that come from your faith, not the salvation comes from it. Why? Because the salvation was already bought by him. I'm not saved because of my actions. I'm saved because of his actions. However, I am judged at the Bema by my actions because his actions brought me to him. Do you see? When you put it all together, there is no conflict between James and Paul. And if anything, it's a pretty sobering reminder that when we are judged as believers at the Bema judgment by King Jesus himself, he is not going to ask you how much faith you think you have. He is going to judge the actions of your life and were they done by faith. Don't be the guy that talks and does nothing. Don't be the guy that does good things and is still not saved. Don't be the other guy who believes there's one God and that's somehow good enough. Be Abraham. Be somebody in covenant relationship with God who trusts in God's Word and who walks it out even when he doesn't understand. Be Rahab, someone who heard about the miracles of God and placed her faith in God because of what she saw, the evidence. She placed her faith in God and then she turned on her whole city to back God's play because she said, I know that God is doing this. I'm on team God. Those are the two examples he gives, both of which are saved by faith. So now let me give you the takeaways. I bring this in for a landing. Here we go. Good works do not establish salvation. They flow from it. Once we are saved by faith, we then must live by it. Remember, first century, 35 to 45. This is the very beginning of the first thing that was written to our people, to our tribe. And he's saying, don't get it twisted. Your faith needs to change the way you live. Your faith needs to change your actions.