Good morning. Well, is the microphone on? We're just having all... there it is. Good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being a part of our service, whether you are joining us here in Wilmington or you are part of our online campus, either watching this in real time right now or you're a part of our on-demand and you watch it later. Thank you for tuning in and being a part of the Catalyst family. Last week we began a brand new teaching series walking through the book of James. We walked through the first 12 verses of James chapter 1 last week. This week we're going to pick that up right there at verse 13. But before we go into that, let me give you the key thought that really is going to kind of surmise or be a summary of the book of James. Here it is. From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the real world. The book of James addresses faith as it is lived out today in the real world. So let's remind ourselves how we get from the beginning of the Bible into the book of James and then I am going to just review the background but like super fast. So if you want a detailed background on the book of James, please go into your Catalyst app and look at last week's message. I had a big like 10-minute introductory section where we looked at a lot of the introductory details. While I'm saying that also for those of you who are Catalyst app users, if you open your app the very first announcement you'll see that's blue, it says sermon notes. If you click on that it will open interactive, fill-in-the-blank sermon notes. Especially those you're watching online. If you're using the TV app to watch on your screen, you can have the mobile app in your hand. You can sit here, this is from fill-in-the-blanks that I will give you as we go through it and then any place that you see where it says notes, that's just an open-ended text box. If you want to write down, if you you know mistakenly think I say anything brilliant, you can put it there or if you just need to remember what you want to order for lunch, you could put it there and then email it to yourself. I know Jim does that. So let's talk about the big Bible story. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Onto the earth he planted a garden at Eden. Into Eden he created two human beings, Adam and Eve. The serpent shows up in the garden, he offers the temptation to question God's design. Humanity gives into that temptation, sin enters creation and now creation is corrupted. Before they are ejected out of the garden, God promises them that he will send a son of Eve. He will send a human to crush the head of the serpent. They leave, humanity begins to grow and all of a sudden sin begins to flourish because we're now in a corrupted state and sin is so rampant that there's only one righteous man left on the earth. So God decides to send a flood and he calls to this righteous man and he tells him I want you to build an ark. You will save the living from this flood. That man's name is? The name of the boat that he built is? Ark. I got to create new questions. So humanity boards the ark, it rains for 40 days and 40 nights. Water covers the surface of the earth for about 120 something days and then as the water recedes humanity restarts. Then people begin to spread out after mistakenly building a tower and getting confused and then God calls to a man living in Mesopotamia in Ur of the Chaldeans and he says I'm gonna be your God and you're gonna be my people. I'm gonna bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you and I'm gonna give this land as an everlasting inheritance to your family and God changes that man's name to Abraham. He is the first patriarch of Old Testament Israel. Then Abraham has two sons and God repeats the covenant to his younger son Isaac. Isaac has two sons and God repeats the covenant to his younger son named Jacob. Jacob then has 12 sons that becomes the 12 tribes of Israel. They sell their younger brother into slavery. He goes into Egypt as a slave. God miraculously works through him as he remains faithful. He works his way all the way up to the palace of Egypt second to Pharaoh and is then in a place to save his father and brothers and all of his family from a famine. That young man's name is Joseph. That gets to the end of the book of Genesis. Then comes a Pharaoh who forgot what Joseph had done and who God was and they enslaved the children of Israel and they cry out for a deliverer and at this time Pharaoh is either in slavery, either killing your children. They cry out for a deliverer and God chooses a young boy who was born in Israelite but raised in the palace. God has ministry experience in the fields of Midian being a shepherd and God appears to him through a burning bush and says I have heard the cry of my people. Go tell Pharaoh let my people go. That man's name is Moses. His older brother's name is Aaron and their older sister's name is Miriam. Excellent. Then God works through Moses, the ten plagues of Egypt, power, parting of the Red Sea. They leave. They make it to the foot of a mountain where God delivers through Moses the law of God. They went into Egypt as a family. They come out of Egypt as a nation and that nation is codified through the Mosaic law at the foot of Mount Sinai. Unfortunately the children of Israel are still disobedient and while Moses is receiving the law at the top of Sinai, Aaron is leading the children of Israel in disobedient pagan worship and God is displeased so they have to wander the wilderness. For how many years? For 40 years they wander the wilderness and the entire generation that experienced the plagues except for two have to die off and then God raises up another young man to take the place of Moses to lead the children of Israel into the promised land which was promised all the way back to Abraham as a forever inheritance and the name of the young man who replaces Moses as the next leader of the children of Israel is Joshua. Joshua leads them into the promised land. You can read in the book of Joshua their faith and their failures. We see Gentile salvation prefigured in the book of Joshua and then they move in but they don't necessarily move out all of the old tenants from the land and so they begin to enter Mary they begin to do what is right in their own eyes. That brings us to the book of Judges where everybody does what is right in their own eyes and so then they were persecuted and God brings them a judge and almost all of the judges in the book of Judges are not good examples. They're examples of how God can use less than examples to still do his work and then finally Israel brings its rejection of God to the height where they tell God I want a new king. I want a king like all the other kids have and so the first king of the United Monarchy of Israel is Saul followed by David followed by followed by civil war. That's right. So civil war fractures God's people into two kingdoms the northern kingdom of and the southern kingdom of Judah right northern Israel southern Judah and they stay as those two separate kingdoms for the whole middle of the Old Testament and they still have a disobedience problem. I'm not sure if this point you see the theme of the Bible. Humanity has a disobedience problem and so finally the children of Israel both north in Israel and in Judah are disobedient and God has to put them in a timeout. Literally he says the land will vomit you out because part of the reason for receiving the forever inheritance was living in obedience to God. I will bless those who bless you curse those who curse you. You will if you live in this land I will bless you disobey me and I will curse you. So ultimately they are taken away. So God uses a pagan external nation who comes into the northern kingdom invades and carries them away. The name of that nation is Assyria. Then while in Assyria, Assyria falls to a rising second pagan nation. That nation is Babylon. Babylon then comes in to the southern kingdom of Judah defeats them and carries them off and it's at this point that all of God's people are in captivity. What is the nation that Babylon falls to? Persia. Then the king of Persia says you know what you guys can go home. After 70 years they're allowed to go home. Here's your Ezra, here's your Nehemiah. They begin to rebuild the walls. They begin to restart the sacrificial system and at the very end of the Old Testament God gives a promise. I'm gonna send you the anointed one which is literally what the word Messiah means. I'm gonna send you my anointed one and you'll know it's him because I'm gonna send a forerunner ahead of him to prepare the way. That's how the Old Testament ends. God's people have moved back in the land. Interestingly God's spirit never reinhabits the second temple. Not like he did the first time. But they reinhabit the land they begin living and then there's a period of time between the Old Testament and the New Testament. How many years between the two testaments? 400 years. During those 400 years just because the Bible's not keeping record does not mean history didn't happen. There's a lot of stuff that happened. There's this dude named Alexander who was pretty great. He rises to power. He has a kingdom. It was a dad joke. He rises to power then his kingdom fractures ultimately leading to more dominion and enslavement and totalitarian government over the Jews. We get to the beginning of the New Testament at about five or four BC. The children of Israel are living under the power of the Romans and God sends an angel. He breaks his 400 year silence and he sends an angel to the temple to speak to a man and tell that man you are going to have a son. The name of the man who the angel appeared to in the temple. Zechariah. The name of Zechariah's promised son. John the Baptist. That's right. So an angel appears to Zechariah tells him you're gonna have a son and he will prepare the way and all these things. That's John the Baptist. Then an angel appears to a young woman pledged to be married to a man named Joseph and the angel delivers that young woman a message that she will as a virgin conceive and carry a son and that son will be the deliverer and the name of the promised son to marry is Jesus. Kind of a big deal right. He's a big character in the New Testament. So Jesus is born the divine God. Man he gets older he raises up at about you know age 30 ish. He is baptized by his relative John the Holy Spirit fills him with power he begins to do his ministry and then spoiler alert it's not really well received and the Jews come against him they have him arrested he's crucified on the 7th of April of AD 30 he resurrects from the dead on the 9th of April AD 30 and then several like 50 days after the resurrection there's a holiday in Jerusalem and Jesus tells his disciples don't go anywhere yet I want to give you the gift my father will send you so Jesus ascends and the Holy Spirit descends onto the church and what's the name of the holiday at which the Jewish holiday at which the Christian Church is born? Pentecost that's right and the Christian Church is now born. Three thousand people if you read the book of Acts chapter 2. Three thousand people get saved on the day of Pentecost and the Christian Church is born. I mean amazing Peter preaches for three minutes and three thousand people get saved unfortunately it's taking me more than three minutes to do the Bible introduction so you're gonna have a longer sermon today. It's into this moment when the church is born there is no New Testament writing yet. Jesus raises an AD 30 and the earliest books of the New Testament whether you're talking James or you want to go with the Galatians view either way we're talking 45 to 49 is when these books are written so there's a solid 15 to 20 years where people are hearing the stories of Jesus they're seeing the miracles of the Apostles they are coming to faith in Christ they are struggling and to learn how do I live as this new follower what do I do in order to please God and live as a Christian and it's into that world that the book of James is written. That's why we do all of that so you can put your brain cap on and be in the right place. Now quick background on the book of James there are four possible authors if you want a deep dive on all four please listen to last week's teaching it's in the app but I'm gonna say that the most likely candidate is James the half-brother of Jesus he is the child of Mary and Joseph the carpenter he did not place his faith in Jesus until after the resurrection and he became a prominent leader in the church at Jerusalem. When did James write the letter? I'm gonna say that the letter we're gonna study today is written between AD 35 and AD 45 which would make it the first of the New Testament letters to be written. Paul writes escalations in AD 49 so if James is writing this in AD 45 that would make it the first the first piece of New Testament writing to be written and who is James writing to and this is where I'm gonna get to if you're following along with your notes in the app in James chapter 1 verse 1 a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ to the 12 tribes scattered among the nation's greetings that's verse 1 right so this tells us and here's your first fill in church the audience of James is faithful believers scattered in pagan lands the audience of James is faithful believers scattered in pagan lands I'm going to start with that verse for the entire teaching of the book of James because you need to know who he's writing to in order to understand what he's saying just as a quick example if Jim and I were texting back and forth I don't write the text message and then decide which of my friends to send it to right no one does this if you do please see me after church okay typically you decide to send someone a message you open it up on your phone you hit compose and what's the first thing you type the person's name or the person's who you're sending the message to you why because what you're going to tell them is within the context of your relationship with them I don't start with I love you and then think of who in my phone should I send this message to right that would get weird well written communication is no different in the first century than it is today James is writing to an audience and if you don't understand his audience you might miss what he has to say so they ought the just you're feeling again the audience is faithful believers scattered in pagan lands the title of this morning sermon is the truth about temptation the truth about temptation we are going to look at James chapter 1 verses 13 to 27 so the first thing I'd like to do is just read the text 13 to 27 one solid block I want you to be able to hear the text and then we will rewind and we will go through it line by line so here we go James chapter 1 starting in verse 13 and I'm going to read it for you in the NIV when tempted no one should say God is tempting me for God cannot be tempted by evil nor does he tempt anyone 14 but each person is when they are dragged away by their own evil desire and enticed then after desire is conceived it gives birth to sin and when it is full-grown gives birth to death don't be deceived my dear brothers and sisters every good and perfect gift is from above coming down from the father of heavenly lights who does not change like shifting shadows he chose to give us birth through the word of truth that we might be a kind of first fruits of all he created my dear brothers and sisters take note of this everyone should be quick to listen slow to speak and slow to become angry because human anger does not produce the righteousness God desires therefore get rid of all moral filth and evil that is so prevalent and humbly accept the word planted in you which can save you do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves do what it says anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says is like someone who looks at his face in a mirror and after looking at himself goes away and immediately forgets what he looks like but whoever looks intently into the perfect law that gives freedom and continues in it not forgetting what they heard but doing it they will be blessed in what they do those who consider themselves religious and yet do not keep a tight rein on their tongues deceive themselves and their religion is worthless religion that God our father accepts as pure and faultless is this to look after orphans and widows in their distress and to keep oneself from being polluted by the world stop there's a lot that James is saying here so let's rewind back to the beginning of our text for this morning verse 13 first thing you need to understand is that verse 13 should not be disconnected from verse 12 right remember when when we study scripture we have the benefit of putting in chapters and verses but when James is writing a letter he's not stopping and going you know what Deb this should be verse 13 let's put a 13 here right James is writing under the unction of the Holy Spirit and we divided the verses later so I need you to understand that what we're studying today should not be disconnected from what we studied last week where the primary focus of the section is the testing of faith and how maturity comes out of that testing so that's all the background so if you're following in your notes the next fill in the blank which is labeled letter a in the notes is the root result and remedy of temptation so that's blank a the root result and the remedy of temptation so let's look here at verse 13 when tempted stop I just want to define what the word tempted here means it literally means to test in order to ascertain the true nature of something and that's not exactly what we think about when we hear the word temptation in English which is why if we don't understand the definition of the word the way James used it we are likely to misapply what James is saying so this word that we translate as tempt literally means to test in order to ascertain the true nature of a thing in our language when we say so and so is tempting me we often think of it as so and so is offering me the opportunity to act a fool so and so is offering me the opportunity to do what is wrong right we view temptation as a negative word all it's so tempting oh chocolate cake and ice cream and brownies man that's so tempting and we only think about the idea that temptation draws us to negative things but that's not the word that James uses James uses a word that says this this temptation this chocolate cake that's in front of me it offers me the opportunity to ascertain the true nature of my love for chocolate cake it's not the cake that is tempting it's also not the cake that gives into temptation it's ascertaining the true nature do I have the willpower to choose bananas over chocolate cake I think my appearance illustrates that that's a no but do you see the point if we only see temptation as tempting me to do wrong things or offering me the opportunity to do bad things then you will not understand what James is saying about temptation because James is talking about the testing that ascertains the true nature of something when we are tempted to sin yes it is an opportunity to do something bad but it is also the opportunity to ascertain the true nature of your faith and will you choose righteousness over sin that's what temptation really is it's not just the opportunity to do bad it is the opportunity to reveal the true nature of your faith so when he says when tempted offer the opportunity to ascertain true nature no one should say God is tempting me for God cannot be tempted by evil nor does he tempt anyone I just need you to see the number of tempted in this verse so when we experience testing to ascertain the true nature of our faith we should not say God is the one testing me why because God's character cannot be ascertained by evil see when I say it that way it sounds different doesn't it right when I tell you oh God doesn't tempt you it sounds like God's up there right on his super awesome cloud he's like hey it's right here I'm not gonna throw it I'm just hey look oh yeah you never know you got a stand in chose right God's not saying here you go here's some sin Jim come get it here's some sin that's not God why because God's character cannot be tested by evil means we cannot ascertain the full righteousness of God through evil testing that's why God doesn't tempt it's not that God does not allow opportunities in our lives where we have to choose between sin and that totally happens but it is not God who ascertains the true nature of your faith the temptation reveals it and it's not God who can be tempted or God's character be ascertained by evil so it is not God who ascertains the true nature of your faith it's you through your choices why because God can't be tested by evil or another way to say it could more clearer God does not use evil to make us stronger you know why because he cannot be tempted or tested by evil things now does that mean that we that we should ignore the idea that in tempting we can't become more mature no because James already dealt with that in the first half of the chapter right he already talked about the entire process of maturity that when we experience testing and trial right now testing and trial is different from temptation testing and trial is for the purpose of becoming complete full mature capable of reproduction tempting is when we're ascertaining the true nature of something when temptation is presented to you and you recognize that it's temptation and you have to choose do I choose sin or do I choose to walk away you are ascertaining the real nature of your faith does your faith direct your will or does your will control your faith that's all in that word tempt right there just in this first word this first word then verse 14 but each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their own evil desire and in time so now we get to where temptation comes from in 14 now that we've ruled out the idea that God is tempted by evil so he can't be the tempter through evil where does the temptation in my life come from thank you James tell us 14 each person is tempted same word by the way Pia Razzo is the word it literally means to test or ascertain the true nature of things so 14 is related to 13 we are dragged away literally we are lured or drawn away from a place of safety that's what temptation is it is a lure that draws you away from a place of safety by their own evil desire so in your blanks here's the root of temptation the root of temptation is not God's righteous character the root of temptation is not God's holy nature the root of temptation is our own inborn sin nature because God exists outside of sin and you and I were all born into a world that was already corrupted we were already born into a world where corruption is a thing we don't we can't ignore it we can't escape it that's why so verse 14 each person every individual is tempted or put to the test to ascertain the true nature of their faith when they are lured or dragged away from a safe place by their own evil desires humans possess a sin nature God does not need to offer us evil we will do it on our own because evil is within our human nature I don't even think I need the Bible to establish that one people are evil to other people right we don't even in a Judeo-Christian ethic to see that we just need history people are evil why because in a Christian worldview we explain that we have a built-in evil nature and it is that evil nature that desires to drag us away literally the word desire is to lust to crave it's not just ooh that'd be nice it's like I need it I crave it when Melanie was pregnant with one of our children she had this just unending craving for Taco Bell so I became right Nina you're with me right you feel me I became really good at late-night Taco Bell runs why because my wife is actively growing my child and homegirl needs some tacos and as soon as the as soon as the baby was born that interior desire for tacos vanished why probably because it was my kid who wanted the tacos the whole time and their telepath looking to mommy I need tacos right but it was a craving it was a craving that was outside the norm that came from within her and she needed me to go get tacos that's no different now tacos are not sinful trust me anybody needs Mexican after lunch don't think pastor Bill saying tacos are not simple tacos are not simple guacamole is not sinful salsa is not simple tortillas aren't simple fajitas aren't sinful rice and beans aren't sinful but that internal craving that internal desire there are some things we desire that are simple there are some things within me that I truly desire that are not good for me that come from within me why because that's where my sin nature is the last word in verse 14 says that if I put all the 14 together each one of us is faith is tested it is ascertained by the evil that is in us that drags us away from a place of safety because the word entice there means luring with evil intentions right I think about like the bad guys in like old-school Saturday morning cartoons and they're always like right you could just tell by the way they walked in the black hat they had evil intentions make no mistake the sin nature that exists within you never has good intentions your sin nature will always desire to drag you down it will always desire to hurt you 15 then after desire after that lust after that craving is conceived it gives birth to sin and when sin is full-grown it gives birth to death so here now James is saying I need you understand where it comes from within you it comes from your nature within you but now I need to understand how it works see that craving or that desire once that lust is conceived it gives birth to sin and when sin is full-grown it gives birth to death so this in your blank there this is the result of temptation right the root is our evil nature the result will always be death why in the same way that conceiving a baby will automatically lead to birthing a baby and should automatically lead to the maturing of that child right that is a step process something has to go wrong in the process for that process not to work the way it should right conception should lead to maturity of life and how do we measure maturity the ability to conceive right how do we know when humans when we call humans mature when they are fully capable of making new humans themselves that's the process of maturity so James wants us to understand that first temptation comes from within our own selves but second he wants us to understand that there is nowhere the temptation that the lust the craving the desire for my desires over God's design there is nowhere that leads other than death in the same way the conception leads to babies and babies lead to people who can make more babies in the same way that process works time after time after time after time lust or desire or craving will always lead to sin and sin will always lead to death to say it another way sin has a deleterious impact on us as human beings it's always poisonous it's always rotting us from the inside deleterious this idea that just deletes and tears us down that's what sin is in us it never your sinful desires are never good because they come from the part of us that's not good and I don't mean to tell you that you're not a good person you can be a wonderful person and be a sinner you can be a wonderful person and go to hell you can be a wonderful person and be redeemed by Christ but while we are human while we're in the mortal bodies that we were born into we are born into a corrupted world and we possess a sinful corrupted nature and that nature will never lead to anything other than death that's 15 so then 16 do not be deceived or to be let astray now depending on the translation of the Bible that you're currently reading I noticed as I was looking through some of the publishers make a break in the text between verse 15 and verse 16 and I want to highlight that because I think it's important I just want I want to read verses 15 and 16 together and then I want to read verse 16 and 17 together and I want you to hear it so then after desire is conceived it gives birth to sin and sin when full-grown gives birth to death do not be deceived my dear brothers and sisters right that sounds like that now listen to 16 with 17 after it don't be deceived my brothers and sisters every good and perfect gift is from above coming down from the Father of heavenly lights who does not change like shifting shadows right you hear it we got to be kind of clear about where does verse 16 lie and as I look through different Bible translations I noticed that different translators created paragraph breaks on the page remember that that that's not a thing there are no paragraphs in Greek there are no paragraphs there are no breaks so I'm going to tell you that I think that verse 16 is supposed to be tethered to 15 not the opening line of 17 either way he's staying in the same section but when he says here don't be deceived my brothers and sisters that's the word Adelphos means all believers don't be deceived or know the truth we have to ask ourselves which truth is James speaking about is he speaking about what he said in verse 15 the relationship of desire and sin and death don't be deceived about that or is James saying he's linking the don't be deceived to the source of every perfect gift in verse 17 I'll be perfectly honest with you you're free to read it both ways but it can't mean both things right it can't go both ways at the same time and it makes more sense to me to link the do not be deceived my dear brothers and sisters to the relationship of desire and sin and death because that's a major point he's making the every good and perfect gift comes from the father of heavenly lights is an ancillary port or a supporting point to the bigger argument of understanding temptations right I just want you to see that we don't have control over the way different Bible translators translate the text so where they put paragraph breaks even subconsciously affects the way you read the text so I have a Bible in my office if anybody wants to see it it's called a reader's Bible it has no chapter and verse notations it has no headers it has no notes in the foot margins it's literally just the text of the Bible now the problem is is Jim they still have to have paragraphs there's still paragraphs there's still indentions because that's how we read in modern English but it does do away with all of those other distracting things if you just want to read the text of scripture and enjoy being in God's Word without the distraction especially if you're like me like John if we're like thinkers and we're always looking for studies and word studies and analyzing getting a reader's Bible is a wonderful choice and if you want to see what one looks like just come see me after church and I'll go grab mine so I think that 16s do not be deceived is kind of like doubling down don't get it mistaken sin is always going to lean to death and lust or desire is always going to lead to sin then he gets to 17 every good and perfect gift is from above coming down from the father of heavenly lights stop here's a word play in Greek that we 100% miss in English the word perfect is the same word in so the word perfect in English is what what part of speech somebody who's good at grammar because I'm not it's an adjective right we use it to describe something but what's the word perfect it's a verb but they're spelled the same right the word perfect and the word perfect are the same word spelling wise same letters in the same order but they mean two completely different things this really the word perfect here is the same word as mature in chapter 1 verse 4 the same word teleos so when James is saying every good and perfect gift he's not talking about the goodness of the gift he is talking about the completeness of the gift right it's not how expensive the gift is it's what the gift does the word teleos is the same word as mature to be fully complete to be lacking nothing from verse 4 that's the same word here so every good and mature gift is from above coming down from the father of heavenly lights that's a reference to God's creative action and making the universe who does not change like shifting shadows he's making it compare it seems like an odd verse to stick in here when we're talking about temptation but he's trying to show the difference between our evil sin nature within us that draws us into crave that draws us into sin and the good and mature the fully complete and mature gifts from God who is the creator of the universe there's your cosmological argument right he's the creator of the universe and he does not change like shifting shadows now yes I would say that just because they lived in the first century they knew what shadows were there's sun there's trees there's a shadow but here's what's interesting about that word shadow it also has another meaning which means shade not as in when something blocks the sunlight but shade as in another name for a demon an evil mythical creature so the word shade it's almost like I can't even think of a word in English that has both connotations but shade if you anybody who's like reads lots of fiction literature a shade is a type of character it's a type and shades are almost always evil they're dark and so what what James is saying here in verse 17 is if you understand where temptation comes from then you also need to understand where the good mature gifts come from they come from God they don't come from shifting shadows from shifting shades I think it's interesting do I know for sure that James is absolutely using the demonic there no but it does fit the context of what he's saying he's talking about the fact that our sin nature and temptation demons or shades if you're taking that word do tempt us into temptation so the word fits I think it's interesting that the majority of my Bible translations don't bear that out it's not like the scholars didn't know that either that or I'm wrong but either way I thought it was a cool detail I wanted you to hear about it so then we get to verse 18 he chose to give us birth through the word of truth that we might become first fruits of all he created this is the remedy of point a so we did the root we did the whichever the second R was and the third one's remedy a reference to being born again the same as like a John Jesus conversation with Nicodemus John for right he gave us birth we are born again through the word of truth that we might become a kind of first fruits so the word of truth is a veiled reference to Jesus through whom we get the newness of life the new earth are being born again and then what does it mean that we could be first fruits first fruits we don't live in an agrarian society but I just want you to pretend with me that we all lived in an agrarian society where we have to grow everything that we eat Jim what's your favorite fruit banana fantastic least we get to live in a tropical culture or tropical climate so we all live and work on Jim and Lisa's banana orchard banana farm I don't even know what the right word is for that Jim and Lisa grow bananas and we all live and work on their massive banana plantation and when it becomes harvest season and it is time for us to go out and collect the fruit the first thing you eat the first collection of the harvest always taste the sweetest because you've been waiting all that time for Jim's bananas right that's what first fruits mean it literally means the first of a harvest the first of a thing that we got to eat that we got to taste makes it the sweetest we in this verse he meaning God chose to give us new life birth through Jesus the word of truth that we might become the first fruits of all he has created how are human beings the first fruits well if you look in Hebrews Jesus is the first fruits of the resurrection through Christ we become the first fruits of God's harvest of humanity that's what he's saying he God chose to give us birth new life believe in born again through Jesus that we might be the first fruits of all he created that's why you need to choose the good and mature gift that comes from God and not follow that temptation that comes from within you that make sense all that works together all right so now we get to letter B your next fill in the blank is the wrong response to temptation so first blank a was the root the result and the remedy of temptation now in letter B we're going to look at the wrong response to temptation verses 19 and 20 my dear brothers and sisters the word Adelphos again diaspora believers faithful believers in a pagan land my dear brothers and sisters take note of this everyone should be and then he gives three things quick to listen slow to speak and slow to become angry now this is a super popular verse verse to quote as a maxim and what I mean by that is is it's a super popular votes verse to quote like all on its own just by itself brothers and sisters everyone should be quick to listen slow to speak and slow to become angry and then apply it to whatever situation you're in like talking to your friends or talking to your mama talking to your wife your husband your kids whatever that's not what James is saying okay don't take this verse out of context that's like writing a text message and then sending it to the person you think it's supposed to go to that's what you do when you take Bible verses out of context what is the context of this verse James in the first century writing the diaspora believers trying to be faithful he's teaching them about maturing now teaching them about temptation so my dear brothers and sisters Adelphos take note of this everyone should be quick to listen slow to speak slowly getting so first question who are we supposed to be listening to God how do I know that because the entire letter just just look at the preceding verses every good and perfect gift is from above coming from the father of heavenly lights that's God he chose to give us birth through the word that's God 19 take note of this everyone should be quick to listen that's God sorry for all of you online I said that's God forgot I was wearing a microphone sometimes ADHD just takes over brothers sisters everyone should be quick to listen why should we be quick to listen because James is writing about how to deal with temptation how do we deal with the temptation that's in us that desires to drive us towards sin and death we should be quick to listen or also to hear the word listen is also to hear we should be quick to listen or hear God we should be slow to speak we should restrain I don't know about you but when I get pressed my tongue likes to fly off the handle and the Holy Spirit who looks and sounds awful out like Melanie Ohms tells me that's a bad idea so when you are in temptation when you are in the testing that proves or ascertains the true nature of your faith you need to do three things number one you need to be quick to listen to God to shut your mouth hole that's the new internet so Bill translation right there listen to God shut my mouth hole I got you and be slow to become angry and here's where the rubber is going to meet the road for a lot of us be quick to listen to God shut up a little bit more and then don't become angry why because verse 20 human anger does not produce the righteousness that God desires why because temptation is testing or ascertaining the true nature of your faith and what God desires is to see a righteous faith in his children not a simple evil person so this is why we need to a listen be and see restrain that anger response many of you know God in his infinitely hilarious sense of humor has my family a little discombobulated in my house because I had a pipe burst and my basement flooded and you know my niece Michaela lost half her bedroom and now my basements been packed up and the water mitigation people came and then they screwed the electric so now my basement has no electricity and I'm like literally living through this entire listen to God and don't lash out listen to God and to honest it I'm angry let's go like 100% that was my Thursday because I'm on the phone with the insurance company and I'm saying hey and I have to choose the anybody ever choose the stupid approach you just ask questions to pretend like you don't understand a darn thing and let somebody explain to you right and so I'm calling the insurance company I'm like hey guys I don't do this for a living and I realize like I'm not a construction guy but if the pipe burst in the ceiling why did we only cut the walls up from the floor like I would understand if the flood came from the floor and rose up then that means everything above it would still be dry but we have video from the plumber showing you the pipe is in the ceiling and since you only cut from the floor up that means this entire eight foot section of wall is still soaking wet and growing mold and my niece can't have her bedroom back like this ain't okay why did the water mitigation company not do their job and the insurance companies like oh we didn't we didn't know that's where the flood came from I'm like the plumber sent you the video did you think that the video was under the floor so mad and the whole time I had just finished studying this passage and I'm like slow to speak slow to speak slow to speak slow to speak it's not easy and I don't think we should interpret James as telling us that it's not easy remember this is the guy who did not believe in his brother was the Savior until after he saw him raised from the dead so I'm thinking James gets a little slack James might be a realist he might be a but is he really right like I can't wait to get to heaven and ask what was James's first impression of the risen Jesus when he realizes that his brother has been God the whole time like do you go back to your teenage years and be like yo Jesus I am super sorry about that olive tree wedgie like I take it all back right remember they were kids Jesus was the older brother but they were kids so I think James is not trying to tell us that he's super perfect and he doesn't experience anger he's trying to tell us why we don't give into anger because verse 20 human anger does not produce the fruit it does not produce the righteousness that God desires the right response to temptation and trial is restraint we should restrain our initial reactions and then letter C here's your final fill in the right response to temptation so B was the wrong response letter C the right response to temptation 21 therefore so here we go now we're rounding it out the right response to temptation Therefore, get rid of all moral filth and evil that is so prevalent. Stop. Let's just take the first half there. Therefore, get rid of. It literally means to take off or lay aside as in dirty clothes. I just got a text message from one of our online campus members. He's like, yeah, man, I feel that on a regular basis. Thank you, Terry. I appreciate it. That's what's so cool. He's literally having church with us from South Florida. And text me because he hasn't had my number. Thank you, Terry. Therefore, get rid of all moral filth. It literally means take it off like it's a dirty shirt. Take it off like it is stained and dirty clothing. Lay it aside. Now, what is making the clothes or the stain on the clothes? That's the moral filth. So, get rid of, take off the dirty clothes. The moral filth is the stain that sin leaves on us and it has no place in the new clothes of our new life in Christ. That's what he's saying. Take off the stained clothes, the moral filth, the evil that is so prevalent. Why? Because we live in a corrupted world. We live in a world that's already corrupt. The corruption is so prevalent. And humbly accept the word planted in you which can save you. I do not think you can humbly accept while enraged. I'm just going to tell you, I don't think you can do that. My anger does not make me humble. My anger makes me anger. It's like putting an old bay on your old bay. My anger just makes... Maybe it's a Jersey thing, Maria. That's what it is, right? If you're from Jersey, anger just makes you anger. But he's saying don't do that. Humbly accept the word planted in you which can save you. Remember when James wrote Thou's words. Humbly accept the word that has been planted in you. There was no New Testament. So the word can't just be read your Bible because the New Testament didn't exist when James originally penned that verse. What was the word planted in them? The teachings of Jesus that had been orally handed down by the original apostles and the ones they raised. Because remember, James is writing like 15 to 17 years after the resurrection. So some people have already started to get slaughtered by Rome. But some of them are still alive. You're able to hear the teachings of Jesus from those who walked it. When you hear about the feeding of the 5,000, you're hearing from the people who collected the baskets. We don't often think about it that way. But that's the time setting which he writes 21. And then 22, do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. Temptation is only defeated by obedience. It's not enough to be able to just quote scripture at temptation. You've got to live scripture. You've got to make the scripture transition the 18 inches from your brain that memorized it to your heart that controls your will. Because you can quote scripture at me all day long and still be a sinner. The number of ministers that we see that have high profile moral failings, they can rightly divide the word of God, but can't figure out how to live righteously. Those people make my wife and I so angry. Could you just pick a different career field? Can you just sell insurance or something? Those people are already weird. Jerry's not here today so I can take a pot shot at insurance. So verse 22, temptation is defeated by obedience, 23. Anyone who listens to the word, keep in mind no written writings at this point. Anyone who listens to the word but does not do it, what it says, is like someone who looks at his face in a mirror and then 24, after looking at himself, goes away and immediately forgets what he looks like. What's the mirror? In James's analogy, the mirror is the word of God. He's talking about anybody who reads the word doesn't remember. It's like someone who looks in a mirror and then walks away forgetting what they look like. That means the word of God is the mirror to your faith. The word of God is the mirror of your maturity. So after looking at himself, he goes away, immediately forgets what he looks like, 25. But whoever looks intently into the perfect law that gives freedom and continues in it, not forgetting what they heard but doing it, they will be blessed in what they do. Looking intently, A, involves time and focus. And then I also got to point out the word perfect in 25. Remember perfect and perfect? 25 is also the word teleos, mature, perfect, complete, lacking nothing, just like verse 4. So whoever looks intently into the law that brings maturity, the law that gives freedom and continues in it, not forgetting what they heard but doing it. So there are two different reasons given here. A is not remembering and B is not doing. Both are our tasks. We have to know the word, remember the word, do the word. And then he brings it in for a close here in 26 and 27. 26, those who consider themselves religious and yet do not keep a tight rein on their tongues, deceive themselves and their religion is worthless, fruitless, empty, useless, meaning yields nothing. I do not believe that James is saying they are not saved because the audience of James' letter is Christians. He's writing to the diaspora Christians and Jewish Christians all over the Roman Empire. So I don't think you should take, again, that's what happens when you pull it out and try to define it all on its own versus leaving it in the full context. Talking about dealing in temptation, becoming mature, understanding how to listen to God, obey the word, don't just listen to it. And that should have a byproduct in the way we live. If you're a youth pastor that I had growing up, he always used to say, if your life was a silent movie, would it be a Christian film? I always found that to be very pointful. He also watched a lot of movies. 27, religion, that word literally means acts of devotion or worship. Religion that God, our Father, accepts as pure and faultless is this, to look after orphans and widows in their distress and to keep oneself from being polluted by the world. So the two basic things that James is giving us as he wraps out this section on how do we deal with temptation is very simple. We should live to serve those who cannot care for themselves. And we should live not polluted, meaning morally pure or unblemished character. We should live to serve the needy and we should live to not be polluted by the world around us. Why? Because that pollution is going to tempt that evil that lives in you, that goes to sin, that goes to death. Right? We need to live not being polluted by those around us. So let me give you the takeaway as I bring this one in for landing. Christians can overcome temptation by restraining initial reactions and choosing obedience over desire. Christians can overcome temptation by restraining initial reactions and choosing obedience over desire. I also need you to understand that our trial with that hasn't changed since Jesus. Right? James is writing this in AD 45 to 47. And for all of these thousands of years now, almost 2,000 years, we've been fighting the same fight. Why? Because we live in the same corrupt world and we have the same Savior and we have the same Holy Spirit. But we got to walk the same walk. We got to live the same life. We got to realize that when in temptation, you need to understand the root, you need to understand the result, and you need to look for that remedy. Choose obedience and you'll be able to escape temptation.