Well, good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us this morning in worship. Whether you are here in our sanctuary or you are joining us online, thank you for being a part of our church family. I'm going to walk back here for a second and press that button right there. There we go. Thank you for being a part of our church family. Now here at Catalyst we are about one thing and that is loving people to life change in Christ. That is our goal. That is our desire. That is our aim. So if you are here, whether you are physically on campus or you are joining us online, the first thing we need you to know is that we love you. Now we are going to follow that up with we don't want to see you stay the same. And that's not because we don't love you, it's because we do. Our desire is to see each and every person come to the knowledge of Jesus as Savior and be transformed by him to becoming representatives of him. That's our job. Our job is to be itty bitty little ambassadors for Jesus as we walk around throughout our daily lives. Whether you are at home, whether you are mowing your lawn, whether you are at school, whether you are at work, we represent our King. We represent our heavenly citizenship. Now we are going to continue our walk through John chapter 1. So we started this two weeks ago, then last Sunday we were blessed to have one of our missionaries join us. So this morning we are going to go back to John chapter 1. So if you brought your Bibles with you, whether they are physical or digital, turn or tap with me to John chapter 1. While you are going there, let me give you the key thought that is going to hold all of these messages together. And here it is. How we view Jesus affects how we relate to him. How we view Jesus affects how we relate to him. John's view of Jesus grounds his message about him. So how we view Jesus affects how we relate to him and John's specific view of Jesus grounds his message about him to us. So John is the fourth book in the New Testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke. John, there we go. So let's review the big Bible story so we can get into it. Genesis 1.1, God creates the heavens and the earth. Genesis 3, sin enters the world at the fall. The garden, the fall. Genesis chapter 9, there comes a flood and a guy named Noah. Genesis 12, God makes a covenant with a guy named Abraham. Changes his name to Abraham. Abraham's son is Isaac. Isaac's son is Jacob. Jacob's sons become the twelve tribes of Israel. They move into Egypt. That was all the book of Genesis. They move into Egypt. Then they move out of Egypt in the book of Exodus when God sends a deliverer named Moses. Moses has the ten plagues. We're just reviewing. This isn't quiz time, Danny. It's okay. All right. So God sends a deliverer named Moses. Ten plagues, the parting of the Red Sea. They walk across. They're supposed to move into the land of Canaan, but they have a disobedience problem. How many years do they wander in the wilderness? Forty years. They wander in the wilderness. That's the book of Numbers and that's the book of Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy literally means second law. Moses has to tell all of the children who are now the grown-up adults because they grew up during the wilderness wandering period, what God expects of them. Then they move into the promised land, Joshua, judges. Then what is it that Israel wants that everybody else has that they don't have? A king. That's right. They want a king just like all the other kids have. The first king of the United Monarchy of Israel is? Saul, followed by? David, followed by? Followed by civil war. The nation fractures into the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. Ten tribes up here, two tribes down here, the north and the south. Then they are fractured and divided. That gets you all to about two-thirds through the Old Testament. God's children are still being disobedient and he sends them into exile. I heard it. They send them into exile. They're in exile for 70 years. The book of Daniel takes place there. The book of Esther takes place there. We have the Assyrians and the Babylonians, then the Persians. Then all of a sudden comes a king who lets them go home. That's Ezra, that's Nehemiah. Then we get to the end of the Old Testament and God makes a promise. I'm going to send you a messiah. That gets us to Malachi. How many years of silence between Malachi and Matthew? 400. 400 years of silence. God doesn't say anything. No new prophets, no new scriptures. God's people are waiting for him. But he promised a forerunner and that forerunner was going to be John the Baptist. God sends an angel to a man named Zechariah in the temple. Zech, bro, thanks for praying. You're going to have a son. He's going to be named John. He's going to be filled with the Holy Spirit from birth and he will prepare the way for the messiah of my people. And that gets us to the gospels. That's where we're at. Now, John is the fourth gospel in the New Testament. It's also the one that's written the latest. So the synoptic gospels are written depending on who you want to listen to. They're written anywhere from the 40s through to the 70s. The gospel of John here is written from the 70s anywhere to the 90s. So John is one of the original 12. Anybody want to take a guess? What was John's job before Jesus called him to be a disciple? No, that's Matthew. That's right. Somebody just did that. Mmm, fisherman, right? John and his brother James are fishermen along with Peter and his brother Andrew. So John's a fisherman. He's a blue jeans, backwoodsie, redneck, fisherman kind of guy. But when John opens his gospel, he doesn't start at the Christmas story. That's Matthew and that's Luke. John starts with Jesus as God. John 1, 1, in the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God. So that was two weeks ago. We saw that John starts with Jesus' divinity. He's God. If you don't understand that this Jesus I want to tell you about starts as God, you're not going to understand everything that happens in John. There are certain things that happen in John that are not recorded in the other three gospels. The wedding at Cana is a great example of that. The woman caught adultery in chapter 8. The parable of the prodigal son. These are wonderful instances of a compassionate divine Jesus. But don't get it missed. John starts, Jesus is God. Okay? That was the first week. That was last week in the series. That was the first week. Now, this week we're going to look at John chapter 1 verses 14 through 18. So just 14 through 18. Remember that we're starting Jesus is God and now we're going to build on that. So first let's read 14 to 18 and then let's go through here and rip it up because there's something very powerful that I want you to see. So this is John chapter 1. I'm going to start reading here in verse 14. The word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only Son who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. Now John testified concerning him. He cried out saying, this is the one I spoke about when I said he who comes after me has surpassed me because he was before me. Out of his fullness, we have all received grace in the place of grace already given. For the law was given through Moses, grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God but the one and only Son who is himself God and is in closest relationship with the Father has made him known. So this is just 14 to 18. Remember we started 1 through 17 Jesus is God. Now let's also review. He uses the word here, the word. What's the word? What's the word word in Greek? Logos, right? You have to remember that John is writing in 80, 70 to 90. At this point, there is an equal amount or a greater amount of Gentile Christians than just Jewish Christians. So remember Jesus was a Jew. Jesus is the promised Messiah of the Jewish people. When Jesus calls his first original 12 disciples and then the group of 72 which included female disciples, right? They're all Jewish. But at the end of the gospels, especially in the book of Acts, we see that the gospel message goes to Gentiles. You could go to Acts chapter, is it chapter 7 or 8 where the gospel goes to Samaria, chapter 10 the gospel goes to Cornelius' house and an entire group of Greek people get saved. By the time you get to the 80, 50s when Paul is writing Romans, there is just as many if not more Gentile Christians as there are Jewish Christians. So that whole big Bible story that you and I just reviewed, for the Gentile Christians, it starts with Jesus. The history they learn later, right? Because they didn't grow up Jewish. So they didn't grow up with the stories of David and Solomon and David defeating Goliath and the story of Noah and the flood. They didn't grow up with those. They grew up in Greek culture. And in Greek culture, the logos is the personification of wisdom, of reason and of knowledge. It's how we know what is true. Greek philosophy is the foundation for modern Western philosophy. Aristotle, super, super white, roby, large bearded guys came up with some really cool thought stuff. All of that is built into Greek culture. So when John intentionally uses a word like the logos, he's saying what you know as the source of wisdom and truth is actually Jesus who is God. That's what he's saying. And we talked about that last week. So now the word became flesh. So here's the first thing I need you to see. I only really need the first four words of this sentence. This is the next big thing that John is trying to teach you. The logos, the divine Jesus who's God, became flesh. Now theologically, we have a word for this. In Christian theological circles, we call this the incarnation. Incarnation. I want to break that word down for you so you understand exactly what incarnation means. It means in carne. C-A-R-N-E. By the way, has anybody ever eaten carne asada? Right? Come on, hands up, right? How delicious is carne asada? You know what carne means? Meat. It means meat or flesh. So when we refer to Jesus became or became flesh. I'm going to use my sweater here. I meant to bring a jacket, but thankfully my daughter reminded me that I have a sweater. So if I standing here represent the divine pre-existent Jesus, right? He's God. He starts John 1-1. In the beginning was the word, the word is with God, the word was God. John starts his Christology way high. Jesus is God. But then Jesus became flesh. Jesus en carne. He became flesh or he put on flesh, right? So now am I any different than I was a minute ago? Am I still Bill? Yeah. I'm totally still Bill with all of my amazingly good looking brilliant features, right? Yes. But I now have put on a sweater. Does this sweater alter my original nature? No, it does not. And this is where Christian theology stands out from many of the other worldviews. When we describe Jesus as the God man, he was fully human and fully God. This sounds like a logical contradiction, but it's really not. Because if we realize in John 1-1, Jesus started as God, right? Jesus started as God. When we get to John 1-14, he put on flesh. This is Jesus wrapping his divinity in humanity. That is how Jesus is both fully God and fully man at the same time. However, I'm fully big and fully hot, so I'm not going to wear the sweater. Okay? Dan, catch. Thanks. Because it's hot up here, so I don't need to wear the sweater. I just need to make the point. How do we know that Jesus is God? Because he started as God in John 1-1. But then he puts on the flesh of humanity. He wraps his divinity in humanity. Does the internal nature of Jesus change at all? No, absolutely not. But he adds to his divine nature a human nature. He wraps himself in carne. He wraps himself in flesh and therefore becomes the God-man. This is very important. Did I do something wrong? Nope, okay. When my wife walks all the way up here, I've got to wonder what I'm doing. This is important to understanding who Jesus is, Christiologically. Jesus is absolutely, 100% a historical figure. Yes. Even atheist scholar Bart Ehrman is going to agree with that. Wrote a great book called Did Jesus Exist? I'm reading a book written by an atheist who's proven, oh, that's awesome. We had a fan. I didn't know that. That's awesome. Thank you. Sorry, you've got to keep up with the theology and the ADHD all at the same time. Sorry, Nate. So when we see the word became flesh, this is how we explain, in a theological term, it's called the hippostatic unions. Nice big old term for Jesus is the God-man. How do we understand God's, Jesus' divine nature and his human nature working together inside of one person? Because Jesus never stopped being God. That was John 1-1. But adding to his God nature, he puts on flesh. It's literally the infleshing of God. The infleshing of God. So now the human Jesus, who is ultimately born of the Virgin Mary, is divine God wrapped in humanity. And in doing so, the word became flesh. That's just the first four words. Now let's take the end of the sentence. And made his dwelling among us. So this sentence right here is crazy cool. Because in the first part of the sentence, the word became flesh. He grabs all of the Greek-speaking Christians. And he says that logos that you've believed your whole life, it's actually the divine Jesus who is God who has become flesh. But that's the Greek-speaking mentality. Then in the latter half of the sentence, made his dwelling among us. Now here he grabs all the Jewish Christians. So at the time that Jesus was born, they had already translated the Old Testament scriptures. What you and I know of as the Old Testament started as the Hebrew Bible. It was in a little bit of a different order, like the books were in a slightly different order, but they're all the same books. So they had taken the Hebrew Bible and they had translated it into Greek. That's known as the Septuagint. So at the time that Jesus was born, there are Greek-speaking people who can read the stories of the Old Testament in their own native language because they have a Greek translation of what you and I call the Old Testament and it's called the Septuagint. Here's what's super cool about made his dwelling among us. Do you know what the word dwelling means? It's the same Greek word for tabernacle. So what does that mean? Well, now we got to go back to the Old Testament. What did God's original people understand that the tabernacle was? The tabernacle was God's home amongst his people. He had the tabernacle all throughout the wilderness wanderings. And then what did God say to do? He said to David, build me a house. Why? So that I may dwell with my people. Except David, you're a man of war. You killed too many people. I'm going to get your boy to do it. Solomon will build my temple. Then in the middle of the Old Testament, Solomon prays over the temple. He blesses it and he blesses the temple not just for the Jewish people. This is super important to understand salvation in a whole biblical context. If you go look at Solomon's dedication prayer of the original temple in the Old Testament, you know what he says? That this will be a house to declare for all of the nations of who is God. When the original temple was built in the middle of the Old Testament, it was built to be a beacon of light to Jew and Gentile alike that he is God. And now he has a permanent dwelling place among his people. Inside the big temple complex was the holy of holies where God's presence dwells, where the high priest would go in and enter once a year. This is the symbol of God's presence being dwelt among his people. It's called the tabernacle. Tabernacle is literally dwelling among. So when John in 14 says the word became flesh, the Logos that you knew is God, he totally put on flesh and now he's walking among us. And hey, you Jewish people, the reason he did all of that was to be among us again but in a completely different way. Whereas the Jews in the Old Testament knew that God's house was down the street and they could go see him. Now that the word has become flesh and is tabernacling among us, you can not just see him, you can meet him. This sentence is just huge to understanding what is John teaching us about Jesus. Jesus started as God, Jesus puts on flesh. He adds humanity to his divinity in order to dwell or tabernacle among his people. Then so that's the first sentence, the word became flesh made his dwelling among us. Now we have seen his glory. So let's just stop a second. Let's talk about what is glory. Just keep in mind John's building an argument here for who Jesus is. If you think about the Old Testament, he says we have seen his glory. There's plenty of times in the Old Testament God does some pretty glorious stuff. You know, I would argue the Ten Commandments are a display of his glory and his power. The parting of the Red Sea in order to draw his people out of slavery and move them into a land of blessing, that's glory. During the wilderness wandering period, the pillar of fire at night and the pillar of smoke during the day is the manifestation of his glory. When they built the tabernacle and the Shekinah glory fell and people couldn't stand to be in the presence of God. For all my Pentecostal friends don't miss it. That's God's glory. Then ultimately in the temple, temple, when it is installed, God's glory. Go to Elijah in Mount Carmel when he's facing off against the pagan priests of Baal and God's fire, his glory. What are all those things? I would say the best way to understand the word glory is the visible manifestation of God's power and presence. In every one of those instances I gave you, glory was visible. It's not just an idea. It's not just a concept that God is glorious, but it was a visible manifestation, something you could see. And a lot of times you could see it, you could hear it, you could maybe taste it, you could touch it. It's not just some amorphous random philosophical thought, but Jim, this is something you could reach out and touch. It means it was AT&T before AT&T was a thing. See? Everybody who's alive in the 80s got that joke. All of the rest of you, you're welcome. So God's glory is the visible manifestation of his power and his presence. So now let's look at this whole sentence again. The Word became flesh. He made His dwelling. He tabernacled among us. We have seen His glory. The glory of the one and only Son who came from the Father full of grace and truth. We've seen God's glory. Who's He saying? We've seen His glory. We've seen Jesus' glory. Now when in the New Testament did Jesus give a visible manifestation of His power and His presence? The transfiguration. Thank you, Micah. That's a great one. The transfiguration is a moment where Jesus goes up onto a top of a mountain. Then He brings only three disciples with Him, Peter, James, and John, and He is transfigured to where they have a glimpse of the divine nature that was inside. It's like Jesus opened up His jacket for just a second, showed you that divine glory. That's probably the number one instance that I would think of. But if we pull the camera lens back a little bit, I would submit to you that almost every time Jesus did a miracle, He was unveiling a little bit of that divine power. When He turned water into wine, He taught His disciples who He was. When He healed the blind, He was revealing who He was. When the lame walk and the deaf see, ultimately when the dead are raised, those are little droplets of the visible, remember, visible manifestation. Jesus did not hide who He was. He left visible manifestations of that internal God glory. But where does it come from? We have seen Jesus' glory. Where is it? We have the one and only Son who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. The one and only Son who comes from the Father. There's a little bit of that Trinitarian theology there, right? God is God, God the Father is God, Jesus the Son is God. As ultimately as the scriptures play out, they have a reveal. So the doctrine of the Trinity, whilst it is probably one of the most complex and fully It's revealed progressively throughout scripture. There are hints of it. I mean, all the way back in Genesis 1. And the earth was formless without void and the Spirit hovered over the waters and God created. In John 1, 1 nothing was made that was outfamed through the spirit. So all three members of the Trinity are in creation, but it's not said explicitly. Like by the time we get to the book of Acts and the Holy Spirit is said to be the very Spirit of God, Spirit of Christ, the Holy Spirit. So we're getting a little bit of an understanding here that John understands that God the Father is God and God the Son is God. Just because he doesn't mention the Spirit doesn't mean the Spirit's not God. But you can see there that understanding of the Trinity, which is foundational to Christian theology. And then the grace and truth here literally means grace is unmerited favor and truth is literally reality. The grace and truth, the favor of God in the reality you and I live is found only in Jesus. That's what verse 14 is saying to his original audience. It's a massively powerful declaration of who Jesus is. So now let's move to verse 15. The second thing John is going to teach us about Jesus, not only is Jesus God in the flesh here, the second thing he says in verse 15, Jesus is the Messiah of Israel. So notice there's parentheses. It's a parenthetical thought. So parentheses don't exist in ancient Greek. So just so you understand that, parentheses don't exist, punctuation doesn't exist. Those are things that are unique to our language. So when Bible translators translate the original scriptures from the Greek text into English, they have to add certain characters like parentheses, quote, comma, exclamation point. Those are all features of our English language. Now I will tell you I think that this parenthetical note is exactly correct because in verse 14, John is speaking directly about Jesus and now here John is speaking about John the Baptist. So John testified concerning him. John is not speaking in some weird third person about himself. He's speaking about John the Baptist, who's the forerunner of the Messiah. John the Baptist testified concerning him. Who's him? Jesus. So let's just make sure we get the characters right. John the Baptist testified concerning Jesus or him. He, John the Baptist, cried out saying, this is the one, Jesus, who I spoke about. So you've seen what this is. John the apostle is now referring back to the testimony of John the Baptist. So in verse 14, John the apostle says, we've seen his glory. We've seen it. Now here in verse 15, he's going, listen, it's not just me who saw it. Deb, John the Baptist saw it too. Do you see how he's providing multiple eyewitness testimony? He's providing multiple witnesses to attest to the truth of who Jesus is, the God who is God man. John testified concerning him. He is, he cried out saying, this is the one I spoke about when I said, and now let's look at what John the Baptist actually says. He who comes after me has surpassed me because he was before me. Now that sounds like a logical contradiction, doesn't it? He who is after me is actually before me. It's not. Why? Because John won one, Jesus is God. That's how you know this is not a logical contradiction. He who comes after me, was Jesus born, physically born after John the Baptist? Yes or no? Yes, he was. How do we know that? Because when Mary received the word that she would bear the son of God, the angel already told her, your cousin Elizabeth is already in her sixth month of pregnancy. So John the Baptist is born before Jesus. So he comes after me, he's not wrong. nature of Jesus is born after John the Baptist. But ultimately John knew, I have to decrease in order for him to increase. So John the Baptist knew, I'm the forerunner, I'm not the guy. In fact, when the Pharisees asked John, are you the Messiah, are you Elijah, are you the Messiah? Should we expect somebody else to go, no, that's not me, bro. Well, who are you? I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, make straight the path for the Lord. He quotes Elijah from the Old Testament. Bro, I'm not the guy, my job is to get you ready for the guy, because he's here and you don't even know it yet. That's the new international bill translation of John the Baptist's entire ministries in those two sentences. I'm the guy, I'm not the guy, I'm getting you ready for the guy, because the guy's here and you don't know him yet. And then he says this, he comes after me, he surpassed me because he was before me. How is Jesus the God man, both after John and before John? Because his human nature is born after John, but his divine nature in the beginning was the word of the word of God and the word was God. The divine nature of God is before. So now John, our writer, John the apostle, is telling us that he has personally witnessed the divine glory and nature of Jesus who is God. And now he's telling us, guys, it's not just us. who was born before Jesus was born, also testified to the divine nature that Jesus is God. He is also the promised Messiah of Israel. Then now we move down to verse 16. Now John's going to give us the third thing he wants. So Jesus is God walking in the flesh. Jesus is the promised Messiah of Israel. Here in verse 16, Jesus is the new way to have a covenant relationship with God. This is going to be pretty big news to anybody who's a first century Jew. To anybody who's a first century Greek, this is going to be challenging news because they believe that there's like multiple gods and multiple ways to have a relationship with multiple gods. So look at verse 16. Out of his fullness, we have all received grace in place of grace already given. So let's just now leave that sentence there for just a minute. Let's work with this. Out of his fullness, who's the his? His is Jesus, the divine God man. Out of Jesus's fullness, or out of his overabundance, out of what he has more than we do, we have already received grace. So what is Jesus full of that he's giving out? That's correct. Out of Jesus's fullness of grace, we have already received grace. Meaning the grace, the unmerited favor of God that comes from Jesus, the God man. Out of Jesus's fullness, we have already received grace, God's unmerited favor, in place of grace already given. So now we got to stop. We got to go, okay, what is John saying here? John is saying Jesus is full, the fullness of God's unmerited, unearned favor. You can never work hard enough to make God love you. You can never give enough money to make God love you. You can never pray hard enough, read your Bible long enough, serve the church long enough, go on the mission field. You cannot earn God's favor. Why? Because he gives it freely. He is full of favor and grace, and he gives it freely. But now, Jesus is giving God's unmerited favor in place of an unmerited favor already given. And this is where first century Jews are going to have to wake up a little bit. Where does God give unmerited favor in the Old Testament first? I submit to you, it's a veiled illustration of the Abrahamic covenant. Did Abram do anything to be selected as God's man? He didn't. If you go back to Genesis chapter 12, it just says, and this is the International Bill translation, there was a dude named Abram who found favor in God's eyes. Abram didn't do anything. He wasn't hanging out in the Ur of the Chaldeans being a pagan who somehow did something awesome, and God said, hey, Tyler, let's pick him. He can do it. No, Abram was chosen freely. Abram was chosen to accomplish God's plan, and God made a covenant with Abram. If you go through 12, 13, 14, 15, the depth of understanding of God's grace drips off the page. He unmeritedly chose Abram to start a nation. That, I believe, is the grace already given that's mentioned in this verse. Jesus, the God-man who is full of God's favor, is now giving out God's favor in place of that one time when it was given before. So now, Jesus is going to be giving God's favor in replacement of the unmerited favor of being a Jew. See, because if you were born a Jew, you're born God's chosen people. He unmeritedly chose Abram and gave certain promises that are still being passed down and waiting to be fulfilled. When we get to October, we're going to go through Revelation. We're going to look at some of those outstanding promises that God made in the Old Testament that still have yet to be fulfilled. I've got to be honest. When God says something, I believe it's true. And I believe if God makes a promise, He's good for it. I'm pretty sure if God leaves you in IOU, you can bank on it. You may not know the wind, but I'm pretty sure God makes good on His promises. And that can be a scary thing, and it can be a blessed thing. But I'm pretty sure God makes good on His word. So when we get to October, we're going to do the question and answer thing again, and you'll be able to ask questions mid sermon and get the answers. But we're going to look at God's unended promises. But here in verse 16, John, the apostle, is giving two different witnesses to the divine Jesus. And now, why is he doing that? Because Jesus is now the way to receive unmerited favor from God that replaces the unmerited original covenant. Why did Jesus? Because Jesus came to bring the new covenant. The new covenant replaces the Abrahamic covenant. There's now a new way to receive unmerited grace and favor in relationship with God. And it's not being born into the Jewish line. It's not being born there. Also, don't forget, the Old Testament absolutely has Gentile conversion in its law. So don't miss the fact that there were people who were able to convert into God's covenant family that's already built into the Old Testament law. So there is Gentile salvation in the Old Testament. Now Jesus is doing something new. Jesus is going to be the new way to have relationship with God. And now he doubles down on that in verse 17. Why? For the law was given through Moses. The law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. Second to Abraham, Moses is the greatest character in the Old Testament in a first century Jewish mindset. Abram is where they get the covenant. We are Abraham's children. This is a big deal. The second biggest deal is Moses, the lawgiver. Abram shows us we are God's people. Moses teaches us how to live as God's people. These two things are inseparable in a first century Jewish mindset. Here John combines both of them and says, nope, Jesus is now the way to receive unmerited favor from God. Just as Moses gave us the law, grace, unmerited favor, and truth, how to know what true about reality now come directly from God through the person of Jesus. That's what verse 17 says. Then we get down to verse 18. The fourth thing that John's going to tell us about Jesus. Jesus is the revelation of the invisible God. Verse 18. No one has ever seen God. No one has ever seen God but the one and only son who is himself God. So notice now if you're able to see one another. Now this is what's called anthropomorphism. Does that mean that God has to have eyeballs like humans have eyeballs? No. Sight is a sense. How God sees is left to his divine nature. We don't have to require that God has a nature like humans in order to see. There's plenty of times in the Old Testament where they refer to God look down on us. Does that mean that God has to manifest a set of eyeballs to see his people or God has to manifest an ear just to hear prayers? No. We're trying to describe the way God works in words that make sense for us humans today. So no one has seen God but the one and only son who himself or who is himself God and is in closest relationship with the father. God the son is in closest relationship with God the father. That's an explicit reference to the doctrine of the Trinity that God is God the father is God. God the son is God. But notice this in closest relationship with the father has made him known. What is the purpose of Jesus's ministry? Jesus is to make God the father known by giving out the unmerited grace and favor because he himself is the divine God wrapped in humanity to give out favor and to be the right way to understand truth. Now there's a lot of stuff in those four verses which is why we're going to stop there because the last time we took too many verses we went home and my wife goes you should have stopped at verse five. So in theological terms we call this a high Christology. We call it high because it elevates Jesus as God. A low Christology is where you focus on the humanity of Jesus. Now that's not bad. Jesus is both human and divine. So when we're praying and we know that Jesus experienced what it means to feel human. He experienced anguish. He experienced sadness. That's comforting to us because we know that the God we are praying to knows fully what it feels like to be human. He wept at Mary and Martha's loss of his friend Lazarus. He walked on water. He experienced the terror of his disciples. He experienced the joy of saying of Peter saying to him Lord if it's you tell me and I can walk on this water too. That had to be an exhilarating moment because he experienced these things that emphasizes his humanity. The problem is is when you outweigh his humanity over his divinity that's what they call a low Christology. When you accentuate his divinity without taking away his humanity as they call a high Christology. The reason I wanted you to understand all of that is for this next point. There are those probably not who are Christians but there are those who would look at something like the Gospel of John and they would go yeah but you know what Claudia John was written in the 90s to 110. There was plenty of time for you to mythologize Jesus as God. So Jesus with their argument the atheist argument is going to be Jesus was just a human being and because you guys faked a resurrection and claimed that he was divine over the years you built up this story that Jesus was God and that explains why by the time John writes the Gospel of John he opens with Jesus as God and it sounds a little bit convincing. Wow okay well we do know that John was written in the 80s 90s if Jesus rose on April the 9th in 80 30 which I believe he did then that's like 60 something years so wow Claudia well maybe well how can I know that they believe that Jesus was God in the beginning. Here's the answer Paul in Galatians chapter 2 he refers to the fact that after Jesus appeared to him on the Damascus Road which is like Acts 17 that happened in 80 30s probably 18 to 24 months after the resurrection. What does Paul do. Paul immediately goes into Arabia for three years to learn the Gospel from Jesus himself and then where does he go next. He goes to Jerusalem. Who does he meet with in Jerusalem. Peter James and John and Paul verifies his theology about Jesus with the guy who wrote this book. So the idea that Jesus is God is not an invention that we somehow mythically created by the time we make it to 80 90. Jesus was God in 80 31 because on a 30 1 to 33 sorry 80 33 early 34. Why. Because Paul if Paul had just spent three years with Jesus learning the Gospel from him and then he goes to Jerusalem to confirm his teaching with who the people who heard it direct from Jesus. He goes to the source Paul travels to Jerusalem. He meets with Peter with James and with John and he tells us in Galatians chapter I think the end of chapter one and the beginning of chapter two. He says I wanted to be sure that my gospel was correct. Not the exact wording but that's kind of the point that he's getting across. That's my ADHD way of remembering things. Paul goes directly to Peter James and John and it's like me going Jerry you were there I wasn't there. This is what I think is right Jerry. Can you confirm for me. Jerry says back to me. Yes that's exactly what he taught. And then Paul goes on his missionary journey. So the idea that Jesus is God that Jesus put on humanity in order to reveal truth in order to give God's unmerited favor is not an invention from 80 92. They believed it in 80 33. This is the foundation of what it means to be a Christian. And that's why I believe John puts it all the way up top. Very first thing you need to know about my Jesus. He's God. That's the second thing you know. He's God who became human. And then of course we're going to get into all the cool narrative stuff and miracles and feeding 5000 walking on the water. How was he able to do all those things because Jesus is God. And then Jesus put on humanity for the purpose of revealing God's unmerited favor. So I want to give you the takeaway. Bring this in for a landing because there's something really important I got to point out here. Here's your takeaway. The word became flesh makes Christianity unique. So just hold that sentence there for me for a minute. You know the word became flesh makes Christianity unique. We are the only religion on the face of the earth that has a God who became man. There are plenty of religions who claim that a man became God. Those of you who like your ancient Roman history, Addis and Adonis were Roman brothers who were elevated to deity status by the time of the Caesars. They believed that the Caesars would become God. The emperor in ancient China was a born human who would become a God. So here's what I need you to know. Now show me that next slide, you know. There is no other religion which includes a resurrection or a God man figure which can demonstrate their historicity. What that means is any other God man claim, any other Addis and Adonis, Chinese emperors, Egyptian pharaohs, Roman Caesars, there is no other God man character from all of human history that can demonstrate two things. Number one, that their resurrection was a historical event and you guys have heard me wax on that on Easter if you have questions, please we'll put it on your Kinect card. I would love to talk to you about the historicity of the resurrection. I'll talk your ear off. But also this idea of a God man figure. Christianity is the only religion where God becomes human, not human becomes God. This is a rather bold big claim. Like I'll be honest, you know, when I'm on Facebook and I'm bantering back and forth with my atheist friends and stuff like that which drives my wife crazy, she's like, why do you bother fighting with these people? And she asked me that like on a regular basis. She's back there nodding her head. On a regular basis, she goes, Bill, why do you bother? Why do you bother talking to people who just want to disrespect your faith? And I said, because I'd rather hear these arguments now so that when someone in my church asks me, I'm already ready for their questions. I constantly argue with these people all week long. It's just like sharpening a knife. You are not likely to bring me a question that I haven't already heard, thought through, argued, debated and have a source for. Because I spend my time arguing with people who think that Jesus isn't God, who think that we made up the resurrection, who think that there is no God at all, who think that the Bible's just made up. I spend my time sharpening myself on them so that I am ready for you. This is a big claim. Like, let's not back down from it. Jesus is the God who became a man to bring God to us. We're the only religion that can claim that. The only question left is whether we're stupid or not. Right? Like, that's it. All you have to ask is whether we're true, whether the claim, Jesus is the God-man who brings grace and truth. That's a claim. Right? I'm going to make that claim. Jesus is the God-man who brings grace and truth. That's either a true statement or a false statement. There's no middle ground. So for us to see, and another reason I want you to see this, so when people say, well, you guys just made it up, you can't. There's not enough time for legend or mythology to creep into it when they checked Paul's theology in A.G. 33. There's just not. The living witnesses of the resurrection are still alive. Keep this in mind. The living witnesses of Lazarus' resurrection were still alive. You can't lie about stuff like that. That's why seeing John's Christology up front is super important. Because when we walk into the Gospel of John, you are not walking into a book that starts with Lord baby Jesus in the manger. You're starting with the divine, pre-existent, eternal God who became a man to be the new way for us to have relationship with him. That's a powerful statement. And that's why I didn't really want to go any more than these four verses, because this is the message that I believe everybody needs to hear. Jesus is the God who became man for you. The only question is whether I'm telling the truth or whether I've either been lied to or I'm lying to you on purpose. Right? Either I am mistaken by accident. I've been lied to and I don't know. I am lying to you on purpose or I'm telling the truth. I would argue the third one is the right one. I don't think anybody legitimately believes that I'm up here trying to lie to you, although I have been accused of it. People are like, well, but pastor, you get paid to teach the Bible, so we can't trust anything you say. I'm like, really? You treat all research scientists the same way? You treat your research chemists and your biochemists and your astronomers the same way? They're paid to do research. Why is their research valid but mine's not? So you've got to throw that one out. So now the only question is, is Jesus the God-man? Is John right that God became man so you and I could have relationship with him? If he's right, then Jesus is the only way to have relationship with a true God. If John is wrong, then there's a world of possibilities. Maybe there's no God, maybe there's 12 million gods, maybe there's reincarnation. But if John is right, there is one way to heaven and his name is Jesus. That's what John is saying. And John's putting all of this upfront in his gospel so that when we learn about the miracles, you'll understand why. Why does Jesus do all the miracle stuff? Why does he reveal the visible manifestation of God's glory to draw us into right relationship with him? Why did Jesus resurrect? Because it's the single greatest miracle that's never been repeated. Why? To reveal the manifestation of God's glory so you and I can have relationship with him. That's what the resurrection means.