Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. For those of you who don't know me, my name is Bill. That was your quiz. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here at Catalyst. And today we are going to begin a brand new teaching series. I had actually planned something else and then with the opportunity we got to be able to have a missionary come in and speak, it sort of changed the way the planning calendar works. So I took out what was originally planned for today and we're going to go in a slightly different direction. But that's okay because it's still going to fit in with our larger mission. So here at Catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change in Christ. Our job is to love people and to love them without reservation but not love as an end goal. That love should be life impacting and life changing. We want to love you to a life change through Jesus Christ. So if you're here this morning and you're worshiping with us in the room, we love you. If you're joining us online and you're a part of our virtual long distance family, we love you too. But we love you enough to tell you the truth. I don't want you to stay the same. And one of the primary ways that we change and become more like Jesus is through the studying of His word. So you saw through the intro video we're going to go to the Gospel of John today. So I'm going to ask everybody to take out your Bibles whether they're physical or digital and turn or tap with me to the Gospel of John. John is the fourth book of the New Testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke, just check in so you're paying attention. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. So John is the fourth book in the New Testament. While you turn there, let's review the big Bible story. Here we go, okay. Genesis 1, 1, God creates everything. Places Adam and Eve in the garden. That's two, one and two. By chapter three, sin happens. Chapter nine, a flood happens. Chapter 12, God chooses a man named Abram. He makes a covenant with him and changes his name to Abraham and then begins the patriarchal section. Abraham has a son named Isaac. Isaac has a son named Jacob. Jacob has a bunch of sons. They move into Egypt. They move out of Egypt in the book of Exodus. Then they have a slight disobedience problem and Dave, they got to like wander around for 40 years to figure out where they're trying to go. They move into the land of Canaan. That's the book of Joshua. They're in the land of Canaan with judges. Then all of a sudden they decide they want a human king. I want a king like all the other kids have. That was really their argument, believe it or not. God wanted to be the king of his people, but the people were too distracted, wanting to be like all the people around them. And they said, I want a king like all the other nations have. So who is the first king of the United Monarchy of Israel? Saul. After Saul came, David. After David came, Solomon. After Solomon, there's no more United Kingdom. They have a civil war. Captain America goes one way and we'll just take him. So they have a civil war and the nation of Israel fractures into two. The northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. And for the rest of the Old Testament, they're kind of fractured. Then you keep going, you keep going. Then all of a sudden they're still super disobedient. God's people haven't figured out how to play by his rules. And so then they have to go into exile. So that's the book of Daniel and the book of Esther takes place in exile. And then after a while, God says, okay guys, Bob, your time out's over. You and Pete can come home now. So then they move back into the land of Canaan. That's the book of Nehemiah. That's the book of Ezra. They reset up the temple and the kingdom there. And then how many years of silence between the Old Testament and the New Testament? 400 years. That's right. For 400 years, God did not speak to his people. No prophets, no new scriptures. They were just, they would just live in life. There's a lot that happened historically in those 400 years. And then all of a sudden, God sends an angel to a man named Zechariah who was in the temple. He said, by the way, hey, Zech, bro, you're going to have a kid. His name's going to be John. He's going to be greater than everybody around him. He's going to be a Nazarene from birth. And he is going to herald the coming of the Messiah of Israel. And that's what kicks off the New Testament. So then the New Testament starts. And John the Baptist grows up. He goes out into the woods. He's living in a weird, eating locusts, wild honey. People are not quite sure what to do with him. And then all of a sudden, Jesus shows up. The gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, tell the story of the earthly ministry of Jesus. That's where we're at in the big Bible story. I think it's super important that every time we enter the scriptures, we remember the big Bible story. Part of it is because if you did not grow up studying the scriptures as a child like I did, and I'll be honest, I grew up in a Baptist church. I could memorize scripture from the time I could walk. But I never understood how everything connected together. Because nobody ever sat here and just keeps reviewing the big story, the big story. You know what the, here, one mini sermon and then we'll move on. You know what the biggest lesson of the Bible is? God's unfailing love for an absolutely stupid people. You can quote me on that. That's my one sentence of what does the Bible really mean? God's unfailing love for a crazy jacked up people who constantly fail. And yet he never stops loving us. So we make it to the Gospel of John. In the four Gospels, the Gospel of John is also unique. John's perspective on Jesus is a little different. There's also many stories contained within the Gospel of John that are not in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Those are called the synoptic Gospels. They're largely very similar. John is super unique. And we're going to see that over the next four weeks. We're going to sit right here in John chapter one. For the next four weeks, that's all we're going to do. We're going to sit in John chapter one because I submit to you this morning, John chapter one might be the most theologically rich chapter in all four Gospels. What John is opening with and what he is teaching us about who Jesus is and how we relate to him and why that stuff is important might be, might be. You could disagree with me. And after church, you want to come to the front row, we'll have a fun little theological debate and it'll be cool. But I would submit to you that it's possible that John chapter one might be the most theologically rich chapter. Although it's going to take a little time to dig into it. So hopefully I stalled long enough. You guys were tapped to John 1.1. Let me go ahead and give you the key thought that's going to meld these next couple of weeks together. Here it is. How we view Jesus affects how we relate to him. How we view Jesus affects how we relate to him. John's view of Jesus grounds his message about him. So when you understand that we're about to journey into the Gospel of John. This is the opening chapter. This is what sets the tone of the whole story. And that's why I don't want us to skip it. So let me go ahead and give you the setting. The Gospel of John is the fourth Gospel to be written probably between AD 80 and possibly maybe 92, 94. It's possible that it was written before AD 70. For those of you like the Bible scholars, Jesus mentions the temple in present tense, not past tense. So the only way Jesus could mention the temple in present tense is if it was in existence when this was written. So it's possible it was written before AD 70. And the purpose for which John is writing his Gospel, you don't find it till the end of the book. But the purpose is so that we may believe. So with all of that, let's take a look at John chapter 1 starting in verse 1. In the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him, nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of all mankind. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to testify concerning that light. So that through him all might believe. He himself was not the light. He came only as a witness to the light. The true light that gives light to everyone was coming into the world. He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him. He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. Yet to all who did receive him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Children not born of natural descent, nor of a human decision, or of a husband's will, but born of God. Now that's a really big opening barrage of stuff. He's saying a lot of really good, like chocolatey, fudgy, delicious goodness. But we need to go back to the beginning, and let's go through this a little bit slower. So let's just look at verse one for a minute. In the beginning was the Word. I'm going to take that little fragment. So first off, in the beginning, can anybody tell me what other book of the Bible begins with the word? What other book of the Bible begins with those three words? Genesis, right? Now, John, he's a first century Jew or a Gentile? He's a Jew, right? He's writing to people so they would believe in Jesus. I don't think it's an accident that he begins his gospel the same way the book of Genesis begins. He's going all the way back to the very beginning of all that ever was. In the beginning. For those of you who like science, we're talking about the moments before what's commonly referred to as the Big Bang. So I don't have a problem with Big Bang cosmology working with the Scriptures. If that's something you want to talk about, we can talk about it after church. But in the beginning is the philosophical beginning of all that ever was. Think about a super long... Anybody ever played with dominoes as a kid? I grew up as the only child so I didn't have any siblings to beat up on or who beat up on me. So I was bored a lot and when you're bored a lot, you come up with toys. And so I used to set up dominoes like and try to get them to fall off one table onto another table and keep going. Imagine a really long string of dominoes. And you watch the dominoes falling. But you can't see the beginning of it. But you still somehow kind of know that they're not just falling forever. Like there was a beginning at some point. Something had to knock over that first domino for an entire row of chain reactions to happen. We're talking about that moment before domino number one was ever hit. In the beginning was the word. Now I got to stop on this word word because words by themselves don't really communicate as much as we say they do. You know when we say, well, what's the literal meaning of something? In fact, my son and I were just having this conversation this morning. And we say, well, what's the literal meaning of a word? Right? Let me ask you a question. What's the literal meaning of the word spring? Right. All of you smart people chuckled enough not to answer, right? Why? Because you could have spring the season. You could have spring the metal coil. You could have spring water. You could have spring the verb. How would you know which spring I was referring to? I got to put it in a sentence. I got to give the word context in order for us to understand which word I'm using. So the word that John uses here in the beginning was the word is the Greek word logos. Logos. Looks like logos but pronounced logos because it's Greek not English. This is a very uniquely important word for John to use. And I'm going to explain why. When John was writing his gospel, we're talking about the end of the first century. Rome controls most of the known world. Rome is the military power that's in charge. Anybody ever study history? Caesar, the Parthenon, the Colosseum, gladiators, Russell Crowe, you know. Y'all were thinking it. I'm just saying it. So that's the time period we're in. Judeo and especially Christian thought doesn't really rule the world right now. Most of the time in America at least, you could go somewhere and mention the name Jesus and people would have some sort of idea what you're talking about. They've heard of Christianity. Maybe they've heard of the Bible whether they've read one or not. But in the first century, we're not the intellectual heavyweights. Greco-Roman thought is. They're group of gods. So think a little more Percy Jackson and a little less Charlton Heston. And you'll be going towards the right kind of mentality. So when John uses a word like logos, see he's using a Greek word. He's using a word that was super familiar to his first century audience. And here's what that word means. The logos is literally the personification of knowledge, reasoning, and wisdom. So imagine for a moment. So what personification means is taking something that's not a person, that's kind of a thing, an idea, wisdom, knowledge, reason, thought, and turning it into a symbol, a person. Superman, not real. Didn't mean to spoil alert that for anybody. But in the Superman comics, he is the personification of goodness and righteousness and things like that. Largely I would say in the Marvel side, Captain America is that symbol of goodness and stuff like that. That's what the logos is. Logos isn't actually a person, but in Greek thought, it was as close to a hero as you could get without being an actual human being. And what did the logos represent? It represented wisdom, knowledge, reason, thought. Now, these are really big things if you're a first century Greek person, right? Most of what we study in philosophy today, Socrates, Aristotle, Plato, they were all Greek philosophers. If you want me to use a collegiate term, they were big thinker dudes. So when he uses a word like logos, he is immediately grabbing his audience right at the cultural center and saying, that which you thought was just a personification of wisdom and knowledge and goodness, that was there in the beginning, before there was a universe. That thing that you think of as the personification of all that is good and knowledge and wisdom, it was there in the beginning. And that logos that was there in the beginning, it was with God and it was God. So the second part of this sentence, the logos, the word, was with God and the word was God. John is opening his gospel from the very beginning going, Bros, Jesus is God. Now, Matthew doesn't do that. Matthew opens with the traditional, at least half of the traditional Christmas story. So the scriptures that you and I will read when we get to December and we talk all about the angel that appears to Mary and the angel that appears to the shepherds and that there was a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes in a manger. Anybody want peppermint yet? Right? Matthew and Luke both begin their gospels at the birth narrative of Jesus. Mark begins, I mean, Mark is like just trying to get you there, man. Mark just gets right into it. Jesus is already in ministry. But John stops and he goes, you won't fully understand Jesus unless you understand he started as God. That's where John wants us to start. In the very first sentence, in the beginning was the word, was Jesus, the logos. And it was with God and the word was God. Now, interesting note here for any of you who have friends who are Jehovah's Witnesses. Their Bible is going to read one word different in this very opening verse. One single letter different, in fact. If you read a Jehovah's Witness translation of the scriptures, it's going to say, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was a God. But I can tell you and I can show you after church if you really want to see it. That little article, that word a, does not exist in the Greek text. It literally says the logos was with God and was God. Now, whilst this does not fully explain all that the Trinity is in Christianity, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, what John is opening with is, you will not understand everything I have to tell you about who Jesus is and what he did if we don't start with Jesus is God. And he's God in relationship with God the Father. That's his opening sentence. I mean that's really big, that's really huge. We're not starting with Jesus in the manger. We're not starting with Jesus doing miracles. We're starting with you won't get it if you don't get first. He was God in the beginning. Before there was a universe, before there was an earth, before there was an atom, before there was an Abraham, there was a Jesus who was God. Now we get into verse 2. He was with God in the beginning. He says, I can't say it fully explains the doctrine of the Trinity, but it's another evidence to what the Trinity means. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit are one in essence, but three in persons. It's very complicated, but put it on your Kinect card if you want to talk about that. This coming week I'll be happy to have that conversation. Verse 3. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. So now we're going to not just is Jesus is God, but the second thing we need to see is Jesus is the creative agent who made everything. There's that, right Dave, there's that super advanced theological term, everything. Jesus made everything. Now remember the link from Genesis, right? In Genesis chapter 1, what did God do to create everything except Adam? He spoke. He spoke it into existence. God gave the command and Jesus performed the action. That's how John is beginning his gospel. Not only is Jesus divinely eternal God, but he is the same divine eternal God as the God of Genesis 1 who created everything. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made. So now he's reaching to not just the Greek audience in sentence 1, but now the Jewish audience in sentence 2. Hey, the Yahweh, the God that you know from Genesis who created everything, that's also Jesus. You see how in the first two sentences he's like, and I got you, and I got you, and here we go on a ride. I mean he's saying a lot of things, but we just have to slow it down enough. So the first thing I need you to see here, Jesus is the eternal creating God. The second thing I want you to know, Jesus is the source of life. Let's look at verse 4. In him, in who? In Jesus. In Jesus was life. In Jesus was life. And that life was the light of mankind. So I want to take this sentence in two parts. First, just let's deal with in him was life. Think back to the Genesis account. When God created humanity, he did something different than the other five days of creation, the preceding five. He spoke things into existence, but what did he do with Adam that was different? He did a two-step process. First, he reached into the earth, and he formed man out of the dust of the earth. And then what did he do? He breathed into Adam something uniquely different that makes human beings and human persons unique from all of the rest of creation. I'll say that's, in my opinion, one of the strengths of the Christian worldview. When we believe, I mean, you don't have to raise your hand, but just internally raise your hand. How many people believe that human persons are uniquely valuable, that every single human person is worthy of respect, that every human person is worthy of autonomy, worthy of freedom, worthy of justice? These are hugely important topics nowadays. As a Christian, we have a solid defense for why human persons are valuable. We talked about it in the Ten Commandments series. This is why. Because the life that was given to mankind was given directly from God. In Him, in Jesus, was life. And Jesus is the source of life. And then that life that He gave to mankind, then He defines it on the second part of verse 4 here. In Him was life, so Jesus is the source of life. And the life that Jesus gave was the light of all mankind. Now, the word light here, number one, you've got to know up front. Light and darkness is a very big theme throughout the whole Gospel of John. I would invite you this week to just sit down, open your Bible and just read through John. Just enjoy reading the narrative. You're going to see that light and darkness come up a lot. It's a very big part of John's theology and his understanding of who God is and how we relate to sin and how we relate to the world and what is salvation. I mean, it gets into some big topics. But so that you can understand, light is... So think about it this way. How easy would it be to get around if there were no light? Because keep in mind, didn't we just learn that Jesus is... He made all things and without Him nothing was made, right? What's the very first thing God made on day one? And God said, let there be light. Light's the very first thing that God made. Interestingly enough, human beings are created to live in the light. Think about this. How good would your eyes be, your optic nerves, your entire visual cortex if we lived in complete darkness all the time? The fact that you and I have eyeballs, the fact that you and I have vision, the fact that you and I can see at all. Now, I'll be honest. I don't see really good without my glasses. I see better than my wife without her glasses though. I was made to see. I don't know if we ever stopped to really think about that. Like, Alex, we were made as creatures who see. And how do I know that? Because I know that I live in the light. We were made originally by our Creator to live in a universe and in a world where light is a thing. If not, then our entire optic system would be useless. The fact that you can see me means we were made to see. We were made for the light. And where does that light come from? From the source of light, from Jesus, who's the eternal God. You see how this is all starting to stack up into a really big picture of who Jesus is at the beginning. In him was light. Now, light also does something else. Anybody ever like... I'm trying to think back to when our children were really little and you had to go in and you had to like check on them at night when they're sleeping, parents. Anybody ever stepped on that like one demonic Lego that never got put away right? Right? You can get amen from some other parent who still got PTSD from walking around in the dark. What else does light bring to us besides knowledge? It brings safety. Trust me, when you step on those Legos in the middle of the night looking for your baby, you're like, man, I wish I had night vision. Light not only helps us understand the world around us, light keeps us safe from things in the dark that can hurt us. That's the other thing that light as a theme does. They understood this in the first century. They understood that light also didn't only bring knowledge, but light brought safety. Light brought safety. Think about a shepherd who's guarding his sheep. Does he need to be more alert at 12 noon when he can see everything or at midnight when there's enough darkness for the wolves to creep closer? Right? Light not only brings knowledge, but light brings safety. Now think about when we talked about the Logos, right? The Logos was the personification of reasoning, wisdom, knowledge. So when Jesus is that Logos, when Jesus is the light by which not only do we see and understand the world around us, but it's the light that keeps us safe from the dangerous things that are in the world. Right? It's the light that saves the bottoms of my feet from demonic Legos. Yes. But maybe the light saves me from a lot of other mistakes if I were willing to just look. So in him was life, that life was the light of mankind. Verse 5, the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. Those of you who like physics, what is the definition of darkness? The absence of light. Did you know that darkness doesn't actually have a constitution of anything? You can't measure darkness. You can't hold it. You can't freeze it. You can't anything. Why? Because darkness is the absence of something. It's not the presence of something. What is darkness? It's the absence of light. In the same way that what is cold? The absence of heat. We call it how cold is it, but in reality what we're really measuring is, oh my goodness, who turned the heater off? Like heat, cold, light, dark. So he's saying here, the light, the light that's the life that Jesus gives us, is what shines in the darkness. But here's what I want you to know. The darkness is not capable of overtaking the light. There is no such thing as darkness that can put out a candle. For those of you who are afraid of the dark, I feel you. I was terrified of the dark as a child. Terrified. I needed to have a, even it was just like a little sliver, you know, like that little sliver of light that comes from underneath the bedroom door. That just makes you feel better. Because when you're in complete and total darkness, you can't know anything around you. And of course as a child, I'm sure this is so hard. Nancy, I'm sure it's hard for you to believe that as a child I had an overactive imagination, right? You just have to trust me. That's the way my, and so in the middle of darkness, my mind could conjure up anything that was sitting there two inches away from my face, ready to just eat my face off. But as soon as there's a little bit of light, that light made me feel safe. That light reminded me of where I was. That light reminded me that I'm at home, I'm in my father's house, I'm safe. All of those things that I experienced as a child, they're all kind of wrapped up in this verse. The light that comes from Jesus shines in the darkness. But know this, there's no amount of darkness that will overcome his light. In the same way that in physics, there's no amount of darkness that can ever put out light. Darkness is by definition only its absence. Just as physical light cannot be overcome, neither can the light of Christ that's in our lives. The third thing that John wants us to see about Jesus. So first, Jesus is the eternal God and creator. Second, Jesus is our source of life, knowledge, and safety. And here's number three, Jesus is the object of our faith. Let's look at verse six. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. So now John stops talking just about Jesus, and now he's going to place this in context for us. He goes, by the way, yo, there's this dude named John, verse seven. He came as a witness to testify concerning the light through him all might believe. Remember when I told you what's the purpose of John's gospel? So that you may believe. So now John is letting us know that before Jesus became incarnate as a human being, before the Christmas story and growing up in hymn 12 at the temple, and him finally beginning his earthly ministry, before all of that somebody came before him, somebody came before him to testify to him, to give you a witness to know this who he says he is. Now we go to verse eight. He himself, meaning John the Baptist. John the Baptist was not the light. He came only as a witness to the light. John the Baptist is not who we put our faith in. He's who points us to the object of faith. Now this is super important for a first century Jew. Because the first century Jews are waiting for their Messiah. They're waiting for the person who's going to come. And just like Saul and David and Solomon, reinstitute the temple and beat back the ugly pagan Romans and give us our country back and give us our heritage back. And they were waiting. And the Old Testament ends with two outstanding, well more than two outstanding promises, but one big one. And that is there would be a forerunner. And after the forerunner would be the Messiah. That's how you'll know the Messiah has come. If someone's going to come ahead of him to like be the warm up act. John the Baptist is going to open for Jesus at Madison Square Garden. That's what's going to happen. And when that happens, you'll know who he is. So John is keying into the Jewish expectation of the Messiah. He himself was not the light. He came only to witness the light. Verse nine. The true light that gives light to everyone was coming into the world. Is that rain? Goodness, that's loud. Sorry, that's the ADHD. Get really distracted. The true light that gives light to everyone. Now this verse is a little tough if you're a first century Jew. Because if you're a first century Jew, you're totally expecting the Messiah to come back for us, the Jewish people. You're not super certain that that Messiah is supposed to come back for the Greeks, for the pagans, for the Romans. We're God's chosen people. I get my Messiah first. So notice how he's appealing to both Jews and Greeks here. The true light that gives light to everyone was coming into the world. Verse ten. He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him. This would be like Henry Ford walking through a Ford factory today. And no one recognizing that the only reason they have jobs is because Henry did his job first. The one who created everything stepped into his very creation to walk through it. But they didn't recognize him. They were too distracted, too built up in their own things. Then you get to verse 11. He came to that which was his own. Who's that? Who did Jesus originally come to? The Jews. He came to the Jews. He came for everyone, but he came to the Jews, and they did not recognize him. But to his own, they did not receive him. And here's where John's fourth point is going to come. That belief in Jesus is the way. So look at 11. He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. Verse 12. Yet to all. All what? Yet to all who did receive him, to those who believed in his name. So he's defining what does it mean to receive Jesus. It means to believe in his name. In the name of who? In the name of the eternal creator source of life who gives light and protection. That's what it means. To them who believed in his name, he gave the right to be children of God. Now that's a super important phrase, because that's who the Jews are. They're the chosen people of God, the children of God. So John is opening his entire gospel with saying Jesus is God. He's the eternal creator. He is our source of knowledge and safety. And if we believe in him, regardless of whether you're born Jew or Gentile, regardless of whether you're man or woman, regardless of whether you're slave or free, regardless of whether you're blonde or brunette, regardless of whether you like apple pie or peach cobbler, both are acceptable as pastoral gifts, just saying. To all who believe in him, he gives the right to be children of God. And then in verse 13, he defines what children of God means. Not children born of natural descent, not the normal way we think about babies being born. Not of a human decision to have a child or a husband's will to want to have a son. You will be born as a child of God himself through faith. That's a lot in those first 13 verses. Jesus is the eternal God. Jesus is the source of life. Jesus is our object of faith. That's an awful lot to open a gospel with. But if we don't understand these basic things about Jesus, we're going to have a hard time understanding all that John's trying to say throughout the rest of the chapter. I mean, chapter 2, the wedding at Cana. How is Jesus able to do miracles in chapter 2? Because he's God in chapter 1. Chapter 3, that beautiful conversation with Nicodemus, where probably the most famous Bible verse of all time, John 3.16, comes in the middle of a nighttime conversation with a Pharisee who admits, we know you're from God, bro. Nobody can do the things you're doing. I mean, that's my imitation of Nicodemus. I'm sure he was much more eloquent than we know you're from God, bro. How are all of those other cool things supposed to happen? Because here in John chapter 1, Jesus is the eternal God, the creator, the source of life, knowledge, and safety, and the only object for belief that gives us the ability to be children of God. That's the opening 13 verses of John chapter 1. My question to you is, do you relate to Jesus in all of those ways? Do you understand that Jesus is the eternal God who created everything in the beginning? Do you understand that Jesus and only Jesus is the source of life? And why is that important? I should have mentioned this and I apologize. Why is it important that Jesus is the source of life? Because all of Christianity hinges on the resurrection. Like, let's just be honest, Jim, if there's no resurrection, then we're all wasting our time. We're all wasting our time in churches of forests and there's no point in worshiping if there's no resurrection. But why is the resurrection important? Because the resurrection is the very symbol of life beyond death. If Jesus is not the source of life, then how on God's green earth do we believe he's the source of eternal life? That's why it's important at the very beginning of John's gospel, he wants you to know, that Jesus is the eternal God, the one who created everything. He's also the one who gave us life. You know why? Because he can give you the eternal life that he's promised. If he's not the source of the original life, there's no reason to believe that he could give eternal life. We have to have A to get to B, theologically at least, to understand, why can I trust that Jesus is capable of giving eternal life? Because he gave human life in the very beginning. To switch and put the apologist hat on for a second. If the atheists are right and there is no God, there's no reason to believe that life exists. So science has a really big problem. It's called abiogenesis. That's a really big word for life comes from non-life. The idea that you can take non-living pieces of things and put them in a test tube and shake them up with the right amount of electricity and energy and static and give it enough time that non-living things will turn into living things. It's the problem of abiogenesis. And everywhere else in biology we teach that abiogenesis is 100% impossible. Except for that first time because we need evolution. Evolution can't create life. It can only transform life. So in order for evolution to be true, you have to explain where life came from. So if the atheist is right and life just popped into existence out of nowhere for no reason with no cause, which sounds to me like an awful lot of faith to begin with, but Jesus is the source of life, which is why we can trust he can give eternal life. That's super important. So Jesus is the eternal God who created everything. Jesus is our source of life, our knowledge and safety. And Jesus is the object that we place our faith in. And through placing our faith in him, that's how we become children of God. That's how we have a relationship, a right relationship with our eternal God life. I mean, there's a whole lot of Christianity bound up in those 13 verses. So my question for you this morning, how do you relate to Jesus? This is how John is showing us he wants us to relate to Jesus. But how do you relate to Jesus? Is Jesus just some guy that they talk about at church? Some guy that may or may not have existed historically, but that other people think is God? Is that your view of Jesus? Is Jesus just one way to God? Is Jesus just the figurehead of religion? Like Mohammed is the figurehead of Islam and Abraham is the figurehead of Judaism and Buddha is the figurehead of Buddhism. Is Jesus just one of the many choices of gods? Is that how you view Jesus today? Is Jesus God? The one and only way to have a relationship with God? Is Jesus God? The one and only way to have a relationship with our creator? Is that how you view Jesus today? Because I submit to you that what John is telling us about Jesus is correct. I submit to you that Jesus is the eternal God who created the universe. The Big Bang needed something to kick off the first domino. You can't have the first domino jump outside of itself, knock itself over, and then jump back in. That doesn't work. You can't be your own granddaddy. So I believe that it makes sense that Jesus is the eternal God. You can't have life come from non-life. It just makes sense. Jesus is the source of life. And if he is the eternal God creator and he is the source of life, then he is the only one uniquely qualified to promise us eternal life. My only question that I have to ask you is will you trust in that? Will you trust him? Will you trust that his resurrection proves that he is God and he's capable of offering eternal life?