So let's try that again. Good morning Good morning. Welcome to catalyst. My name is Bill It's my privilege to be the pastor and to teach you this morning as you can see by the layup We're gonna do things a little differently today. We are still gonna study the scriptures We are still gonna learn from God's Word, but the benefit of being a contemporary church is we don't have to do it the same way All the time some days we can do Q&A some days we can do just a regular talk So as we were preparing or as I was preparing for my sermon this week, so I do my studying on Mondays And so I do what's most important do it first And so as I was studying for today's sermon, I ended up having a conversation with my wife About the applicability of the passage we're gonna read which led to probably a 30 or 45 minute discussion on our behalf of What does Jonah really mean and why is it valuable for the modern-day church? And so I thought the Holy Spirit was saying some amazing things through my life So I've asked Melanie to join me today for those of you who worried no I'm not trying to make her a new a co-pastor I'm not trying to make her the other teaching pastor because she won't do that. I promise you But I'm gonna ask that miss Melanie join me and we're going to talk about the book of Jonah today So if you have your Bibles if you want to turn or tap with me to the book of Jonah for the next four weeks We are going to be walking through the book of Jonah chapter by chapter So this week we're gonna be looking at Jonah chapter 1 While you're turning there, let me give you the key thought that I want you to understand about the whole book of Jonah So the key thought is this the book of Jonah reminds us God loves the disobedient That is what the over that's what I'm trying to say the the overall portrait or the overall idea From the book of Jonah is is that God loves the disobedient and listen There's a lot of disobedient characters in the book of Jonah starting with the books namesake Jonah himself is a Disobedient prophet, but I don't want to ruin the story. We're gonna get there. So while you're turning there, let me give you the setting So here's the setting just so we understand where in the Bible we're dropping in Jonah is a prophet in the northern kingdom of Israel So if you remember your big Bible story, right so God creates the world then there's sin then there's a flood then he calls The people through Abram then we go through the rest of Genesis. They go into Egypt Exodus. They come out of Egypt Joshua They move into the land after the judges period they get some kings, right? So who was the first king of the United Monarchy? Anybody remember? Saul followed by David followed by Solomon that's right Saul David Solomon first three kings of Israel. They ruled over a united empire After that they fracture and there's the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah So Jonah is a prophet in the northern kingdom His ministry was during the reign of Jeroboam the second. So those of you like history. We're talking about 800 to 750 BC so 800 to 750 years before the events of the New Testament Just before the fall to Assyria so God's people don't play nice They don't follow the rules God has to put his kiddos in timeout and he uses the nation of Assyria to do that Jonah's ministry is literally right before that moment and that's super important when we look at who God's gonna send Jonah to So here's what I need you all to understand Jonah is the only prophet in the 66 books of the Bible to run from God's direction So let's just start out by understanding that Jonah is the only prophet in all of the Bible Who when God says hey Jerry go do that thing He says no, I don't want to do that thing. I want to go the other way So let's take a look at Jonah. We're gonna read chapter 1 then we're gonna go back through and we're gonna get into it So here's Jonah chapter 1 starting in verse 1 the word of the Lord came to Jonah son of Aminatai Go to the great city of Nineveh and preach against it because its wickedness has come up before me But Jonah ran away from the Lord and he headed for Tarshish He went down to Joppa where he found a ship bound for that port after paying the fare He went aboard and sailed for Tarshish to flee from the Lord verse 4 Then the Lord sent a great wind on the sea such a violent storm arose that the ship Threatened to break up all the sailors were afraid and each cried out to his own God And they threw the cargo into the sea to lighten the ship But Jonah had gone below deck where he lay down and fell into a deep sleep The captain went to him and said how can you sleep in the sea? The captain went to him and said how can you sleep? Get up call on your God Maybe he will take notice of us so that we will not perish verse 7 Then the sailors said to each other come let us cast lots to find out who is responsible for this calamity They cast lots and the lot fell to Jonah So they asked him Tell us who is responsible for making all this trouble for us. What kind of work do you do? Where do you come from? What is your country? Tell us who your people are He answered I am a Hebrew and I worship the Lord the God of heaven Who made the sea and the dry land this terrified them and they asked what have you done? They knew he was running away from the Lord because he had told himself The sea was getting rougher and rougher. So they asked him. What should we do to make the sea calm down for us? Pick me up throw me into the sea he replied and it will become calm I know that this is my fault that this great storm has come upon you Instead the men did their best to row back to the land or to land They could not for the sea grew even wilder than before Then they cried out to the Lord. Please Lord Do not let us die for taking this man's life Do not hold us accountable for killing an innocent man for you Lord have done as you pleased Then they took Jonah and throw him overboard and the raging sea grew calm At this the men greatly feared the Lord and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord and made vows to him So that's Jonah chapter 1 this is where the whole book begins so now let's rewind and Let's go back here. I've got just a few things that I want you to see from this first chapter Here's the first thing I need you to see in God directs a disobedient servant as We open this story here in verses 1 through 3 God gives a direction To a disobedient servant and I don't know about you But the opening of this book makes me feel so much better about myself Because when God tells me to do something I would love to sit up here and tell you as the pastor that my answer is Always yes and amen and I always feel super holy about doing everything that God has told me to do That is so not true There are times when God tells us to do things and we don't wanna So this is the I don't want a moment in the Bible if you've ever felt Yes, right that's not that's not my call Yeah, that's not my call that's not my gift. I don't I just don't wanna God I went to church yesterday Can I have my Monday? God I talked about you yesterday with my family Can we just have turkey today like I don't know about you? But I feel that way a lot and so I feel good getting into verse 1 verse 1 the word of the Lord Notice all in capital letters that means the covenant name Also, you need to know that the word of the Lord came to fill in the blank is a biblical recipe That biblical recipe is to let us know That there is a prophet coming and the word of the Lord came to is in like eight or nine books in the Old Testament the word of the Lord came to Isaiah the word of the Lord came to Ezekiel came to Elijah came to Joel came to Daniel this recipe and the word of the Lord came to is the Holy Spirit's way of letting us know a Prophet is about to speak some stuff What's interesting is if you look at the whole book of Jonah? God has the first word and God has the last word God is really the active person in the book Jonah is the person he's chosen So the word of the Lord came to Jonah son of Amitai if you want to know where that comes from those you taking notes Second Kings chapter 14 verse 25 is the only other mention of Jonah Now I probably should take a pause for a minute and say that there is a debate Or maybe you've heard there's a debate of whether Jonah is a historical prophetic narrative or whether it is an Allegorical Parable type teaching is it an Old Testament parable where we're not supposed to take things literally or is it a literal historical? prophetic book there is a debate out there and Primarily the debate is over the miraculous fish part if there wasn't a miraculous fish I don't think we'd be talking about it being allegorical. So here's where I'm gonna plant my flag The book opens with the word of the Lord mentions a historical character He's mentioned in another book as a historical prophet Jesus mentions him and just as was the sign of Jonah I will be in the grave for three days So Jesus understood that the timeline of Jonah was a literal historical timeline So I'm gonna go on record as saying I believe that this book is an actual historical Prophetical book Jonah's mentioned in another book of the Bible Jesus refers to him. Is there a miracle in this book? Yes, but there are miracles in plenty of other books and we don't immediately try to write them off as Allegorical just because they're miraculous the Bible opens in the very first sentence in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth that is a miracle God created something out of nothing, right? Those of you like apologetics, there's your cosmological argument. God created something out of nothing. That's a miracle So just because the book of Jonah contains a miracle doesn't mean we have to write it off as parabolic or allegorical Or any of that stuff especially considering all of the historical details of the book of Jonah are correct There was actually a people called Assyria Nineveh was the capital city of the nation of Assyria So for all of those reasons, I think we need to look at this as a prophetic historical book And then we need to ask ourselves what can I learn about Jonah in his context? So verse 1 telling us absolutely Jonah is a prophet of the Lord then you get to verse 2 Go to the great city of Nineveh Go to the great city of Nineveh Nineveh is a city within the Assyrian Empire if you were in Jerusalem You would travel about 500 miles north east and you'd be in Nineveh the city in Assyria and the Bible says preach against it in verse 2 go to the city of Nineveh and preach against it Because its wickedness has come up before me Now that preach against it sounds kind of Rough like what is God really telling his person preach against it literally means go cry out go proclaim Go summon go announce Go tell them what I'm gonna tell you to tell them So Jonah is not going to Nineveh to judge Nineveh He is going to Nineveh to save Nineveh They need you to understand that going in because if you don't understand why God is sending Jonah to Nineveh you're way gonna misunderstand what Jonah does with this directive from God God sell tells Jonah who was a prophet in the northern kingdom of Israel After Jonah's ministry less than 50 years Assyria conquers the entire northern kingdom of Israel So you need to know on the front end of the story Jonah views the Ninevites and pretty much all the nation of Assyria They're the bad guys They're the Darth Vader Empire and we're Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia down here All of my geek friends now get the history of the Bible Go to the great city of Nineveh and preach against it. Why I need you to go proclaim I need you to go summon I need you to go announce Because and God tells him up front I want you to go to city and in a bit preach against it because its wickedness its evil its sin its depravity Has come up before me the reason for Jonah being sent to Nineveh is there were sinners who needed saving That's not a New Testament concept you see it right here 500 years before Jesus God sends his prophet and says go tell those people who by the way aren't my chosen people Those are pagans. Those are Gentiles go tell them I Need them to hear me their sin is too wicked their sin is too great go rescue them and In verse 3 where we should see and Jonah was holy and obedient and went and preached to the Ninevites That's where that should be right Dave. It should be God says stuff his servants go do stuff in verse 3 We're three verses into the book of Jonah and we're gonna go off the rails verse 3 But Jonah ran away from the Lord That's bad enough, but let me show you something You may not know if you're not I don't know about you, but I'm like don't have Old Testament geography like at the ready You know I had to look it up in maps and really look at this Jonah ran away from the Lord and headed for Tarshish Now that doesn't sound really bad, so let me put it in perspective The distance from where Jonah lived in the northern kingdom of Israel Northeast by land to Nineveh 500 miles Tarshish is 2200 miles in the wrong direction Tarshish is literally the end of the map at this time Tarshish is at the edge of Spain. What's west of that the Atlantic Ocean? Literally Jonah is saying I will go to the ends of the earth to not obey you That's literally what's happening right here now if you had lived at this time Tarshish was like there be monsters past Tarshish. It's open ocean. They don't know what's on the other side of it It's as far as I can go. I Feel like this sometimes like how many times do we literally try to go as far as we can go out of our way He was supposed to travel by land. He went by water. He's supposed to go 500 miles He goes 2200 miles, but the thing is God's gonna have his way true, right, right So if I go far enough and make it inconvenient enough He'll find somebody else to do it right if I can travel far enough. I'm gonna make it convenient Yeah, somehow my my my mortal decisions are gonna make it inconvenient right for Almighty God to do what he wants to do Like that's like that's a thing. So Jonah travels 20 to be like saying Then you drive to New York a lot, right? So it'd be like saying Dan I need you to just take an extra trip and go to Boston and You can't stand Boston so bad That instead of taking your truck to Boston you take a plane to Japan That's what's happening in verse 3 I wish I could God but I'm in Japan Yeah, God, I'm so I'm sushi in it right now Like sushi and sake Boston's gonna have to wait would but don't send somebody Irish, you know If you'd and here's I mean we make fun of it But if we don't see the little details that the Holy Spirit has left for us, we missed the big picture It's not like Jonah just went around the block Jonah found the farthest possible distance from God's will and said I'm gonna go there and Why why does Jonah do this now I'm gonna let the cat out of the bag because I don't want you to have to wait Till chapter 4 to learn this Jonah runs from God Because of God's love if you skip to chapter 4 you will find the motivation for Jonah running is That God is loving that God would forgive the Ninevites if they repented and Jonah wants to send them to hell He wants to prevent their salvation By running from God. He believes that is justice. Yes, and what he wants is justice. Yeah God they're evil Yeah, they're mean. Yeah, they're on their pagans. They're ungodly. They deserve your judgment. We're the Jews. We deserve your love Now you struggled with this when we were talking about it I did because you're like he told you to do something just go do it Yeah, bro, you know what? You know choices and I'm like I Can kind of understand where he's coming from and I know there's a lot of people I want like how is that possible? So I think depends on kind of how you see God Yes, so this is a huge conversation that my wife and I have because Deep down inside if you were to dig down to the bottom of your relationship with God, there's an axiom There's a sentence and that sentence dictates how you view your relationship with God and million I have two completely different axioms. So when we especially this story this highlights our differences so my wife's axiom in her relationship with God is I Am a child of the king and a princess. Yes, and the whole time that you have been ready tire time. I've grown up I'm a child king and a princess and I honor that I'm respectful of Respectful of that and I should act like one right you should act like a princess I should act like because you already are one right see I don't view myself as a princess just listen good That's good. That's a good thing. Okay, that's good. The axiom at the bottom of my faith is I Am a servant of the king Not a child of the king. I don't see myself as royalty I see myself as an inscripted guard in his service My job is to stand my job is to obey my job is to execute It's not relational. It's functional and I think for me I'm gonna have to lay myself bare for a second to Let you understand but not David, right? It's not gonna come to church. No, okay For me it's And you see it. I didn't realize this about myself until much later in life because the theme of What how Jonah feels is in the New Testament as well and I remember reading it's the parable of the late. Is it the landowner? Yes, so this is my version I am a Cliff Notes version of the Bible there's landowner and he is asking people to come and work the land and He's going to pay them to work the land And so you got a guy who shows up at six o'clock in the morning and he works all day And then you've got a guy who shows up at 5 p.m. And they're off at 6 p.m. And he works for an hour and they both got paid the same thing And I'm like That's not right. What about your guy who's been working hard the whole day? Yeah, the New Testament says we bore the heat of the day, right? How come I get the same thing as this guy who showed up? And it was only here for an hour So I struggled with that for a little bit and then we go to the prodigal son And you read the prodigal son I'm like, well, that's great, you know He God's redemption and he came back and it's great But you have to after he comes back and there's a party the dad throws a party then the part after that There's an older son and the older son is like wait. I Stayed here. I worked. Mm-hmm I did everything I was supposed to do this Joker goes out spends all your money says he doesn't want to be your son anymore Turns around comes back and you throw a party for him. I ain't get no goats. I didn't get go right, right Where's my party? Right, and then you know, he tells him in the end. He's like son like this has always been yours everything is yours everything I have isn't it is yours right and Struggling with that the way that you know, I was raised and then realizing whoa I'm I'm the older son. I Am the person who's like that person doesn't deserve that I I've been faithful my whole life. Yep to the Lord and this Joker comes in You know and it's and I can I could see it in myself Again, I'm not like this all the time. But you know, I I'd say everybody I'm a I'm a recovering Pharisee, right? I'm a recovering judge of all and But again, that's just kind of like there was an expectation you call yourself Christian you live holy you don't live holy Then you're not Christian. I mean it was it was it was black and white You know people like did you hear so-and-so would get saved and I'd be like, okay, really instead of this rejoicing of I can't wait to see what the Lord's gonna do in their life I can't wait to see the miracle that's gonna happen there. But instead I'm like, I guess we'll see Yeah, I'll wait and see the fruit. Yeah, I'll wait and see see and I feel much more like the prodigal So I was raised in church sat next to my grandma all the time Smack me in the back of the head every time I talked to her in the pastor's sermon, right? thankfully, we don't do that now, but and then when I made it and I moved out I went through my wilderness wandering period and I ran for the deepest depths of sin that I could find and God just frustrated every path I tried to take so I view as the prodigal like Lord, I literally gave up everything you gave me and all I have left is dirt and filth and sin But if you can take this I'll give you the rest of my life Because I can never get back to where I was but at least I can be a servant in your house Right that that totally like I totally get that right So so you were having a hard time identifying which oh, I do not identify with you and I was like Don't I get you like if I was Jonah's accountability partner. We'd be having some tie-line justice right now Be like bro, I'll be like on the map. Okay, where's Tarshish? Can we go any further than Tarshish? Yeah Yeah, no, yeah, we would be on polar opposite sides of this story. Yeah, absolutely I wish I could go back and be Jonah's accountability part. I'm like bro You're running to serve God because of his love now. That's the other thing Jonah knows God's love Yeah, he knows God's character and he is a called prophet of God You can't erase that just because he's being disobedient So you also need to get the fact that just because you're called don't make you perfect Yeah, just because we have Jesus doesn't make us not human just because we have Jesus doesn't make us not judgy Doesn't make us not fair a cynical and sometimes we choose to disobey because God is loving not because he's wrathful Because there are some people that I'd much rather see have God's wrath There's some people in my life That I would much rather see God pour out his wrath and you know, and I when I want to pray for them I'm like, okay Lord, I'll pray for them. But dude, there were some hardcore Psalms Let me find the one about where was the bone grind your bones into bread bash his head against that one Tent stake through the temple like that's the God I need right now. I don't need the love I don't need the Jesus that saves me I need the God that opens them round and swallows 3,000 people right dollar tree. That's the God I want That part I get because you get so in yourself So in verses 1 2 & 3 we we see God's call and we see Jonah's disobedient Then verses 4 through 10 God does not let Jonah's disobedience stay hidden God reveals Jonah's disobedience. So put your seat backs at tray tables upright locked position. This one's gonna sting a little bit Jonah chapter 4 I need you to watch the Lord's actions in the next coming verses watch How many times the Lord does things first the Lord notice? The same covenant God that calls Jonah to be a prophet is now in control of the storm itself the Lord Sent a great wind on the sea such a violent storm arose that the ship threatened to break up God calls Jonah to go preach to the Ninevites Jonah disobey says I'm gonna run the other way and God does not allow him So those of you who like the God's sovereignty versus free will debate live on this verse Jonah did everything he could to run to the other ends of the earth and the Lord Sends the great wind and it threatens the ship to break up. What is the ship? The ship is the very means of Jonah's disobedience Remember Jonah could have traveled on land to get to Nineveh from where he was in Israel the Lord is now Confusing and threatening the very means of Jonah's disobedience The Lord sent the storm the violent storm that threatens the ship verse 5 all the sailors were afraid So these are professional watermen They don't get on Unedged by just a regular everyday rain This is a storm significant enough To make trained sailors professional mariners scared for their life So now Jonah's stuck in the middle of the ocean in the middle of a storm with a bunch of pagan sailors Look at what they do in verse 5 each cried out to his own God I need you to understand the sailors in this story are just as lost as the Ninevites are in fact There's a little microcosm here of the entire book of Jonah just in this chapter one They're so scared that they throw the cargo into the sea to lighten the ship But Jonah is downstairs taking a nap. I Find it Interesting ironic That Jonah is sleeping through his disobedience. Well, I mean how many of us Blame everything else But every break it blame anything else on what's going on around us except our own disobedience, right? Oh, it's the devil right the devil's trying to hurt my trip to Tarsus. The demons are coming for me today They're coming for me. No, I know baby. That's you. No, no, no, that's you. You put yourself on the boat Yeah, God sent you the storm to turn you back around Yeah, and and this is one of the big things that I don't think we as Christians talk about Sometimes the storms that are in your life are not the devil attacking you they're God trying to stop you from running from what he Wants you to do God sends the storm and threatens the very means and mode of your disobedience and you're trying to sleep through it God just let me get there. God. I'm gonna take I'm so comfortable ignoring it though. Yeah, like It'll work itself out or or just the idea that I'm willing to go through whatever to not do what he calls me to Yeah, but I'm gonna sleep through it. Yeah, so hopefully we can just get there and I won't be bothered by the trip Right, right, right. I'm just going to ignore the terms of my disobedience Right because what I really want to do is run from God and so I'm gonna take a nap I'm just gonna let my disobedience happen. I'm gonna put my brain and my body in neutral, but What he's not understanding yet is that his disobedience is affecting more than just him. Yes Because all the people on that boat are also experiencing the storm Well and everybody who's expecting the shipment now doesn't get their things well, they just threw everything off the boat This whole this fear and all this other stuff that's happening to everybody on the boat is all because of Jonah It's because of Jonah. Yep, and he's in care and Jonah wasn't supposed to be on the boat The boats headed for Tarshish to deliver goods. It's just in every they're at work How would you like it if you were at your everyday job and all of a sudden a divine god-wrath storm shows up? Because it's not your fault but now you're in it but now you're such a storm that they know it's not natural Yes, and we get to that so that Jonah's below deck verse 5 verse 6 How can you sleep get up and call on your God? Maybe he will take notice of us that we will not perish the sailors somehow Understand that this is not a normal storm. Mm-hmm. This is a divine storm. There's something behind the waves More than just our average everyday bad weather trip Something is going on and what's funny is Jonah totally knows but he's trying to play dumb. He's just trying that if I'm quiet, you won't know it's my fault Well, they're going around who did it? Is it you right who did it? Who upset whichever God make it stop, right? Make it because I don't know which God it is, but we believe in all kinds of God, right? We're totally tolerant of everybody's God, but we need whoever's God sent this storm to stop the storm And so like get the Joker downstairs and they've art and what I think is funny is they must have already had a conversation And they're like who else has left? Yep That daggum Hebrew he's down. Get that boy up. Guess what wake up time get up here So they wake him up in verse 6. How can you sleep? The storm is bad enough that professional sailors are racked with fear, but the one guy who's running from God is completely comfortable He's so comfortable that he's asleep so they get him up and they're all worried with the verse 7 Then the sailors said to each other come let us cast lots Now here's what I need to understand about casting lots. This is a totally normative way of making decisions at this time and place Interestingly, do you know when the very last time we see people cast lots to make decisions is when they chose the next disciple When they chose Matthias to replace Judas in Acts chapter 1, you know what happens immediately after that moment? The Holy Spirit descends in Acts chapter 2 and now that the church has the Holy Spirit We no longer need to cast lots to understand God's divine will But at this point we're 500 years before the New Testament So they cast lots and here's the second divine action that God performs. Don't miss it They cast lots to find out who is responsible for this calamity And it fell to Jonah who controls the lot God does in fact Proverbs says the lot is cast in the lap But every decision comes from the Lord So the Lord sends the divine storm to slow down and thwart Jonah's disobedience The Lord now will not get him away won't let him get away with hiding his disobedience No, this is because of you bro. All of us are now stuck in this storm because of you. What did you do? God doesn't allow Jonah's disobedience to be quiet He reveals it in a very big violent life-threatening fear-filled way and in verse 7 the lot falls to Jonah verse 8 Verse 8 now they're gonna hammer him They're hammering like a journalist who is responsible for making all this trouble meaning which God right? Because he mind the sailors are polytheistic so they just believe in whatever God we need to appease that God so that God won't kill Us with this storm. Is it Poseidon? Great. If it's not Poseidon, is it raw from Egypt? Great. I don't care Is it a Canaanite God ball? Let's make an whatever we got to do to save the boat. We're gonna do it They're not necessarily looking to put their faith in Yahweh the one true God. They're just looking to solve their immediate problem How many people act like God here? I Don't really need to know which God it is I just need whatever problem it is to go away and I'll pretend to believe in whatever God it takes to make the storm Go away. So in verse 8 they say who is responsible. What God is it? What kind of work do you do? Where do you come from? What is your country and who are your people? They've dialed in on something you are doing. I don't know if it's your God if it's your country Let's figure it out. We can help you. Yeah, we're gonna figure out what you've done Right, right We're gonna find out why you're at fault, right? Because now we know for sure that you're at fault, right? Because the lot which is ultimately God divinely behind it The lot now has revealed this entire storm is because of you sounds like a really big accountability accountability meeting Yeah, but it's God doing the revealing. Yeah, so this is like a Holy Spirit driven accountability meeting Jonah I don't know what your issue is But your issue is threatening all of us and I'd like to go home to my kids. How often how often do we hide sin? until someone Comes directly to us and calls you out. Mm-hmm, and you'll sit there sleeping not saying anything being quiet about your sin Yeah, you don't want to get found out. Yeah And it just takes someone Coming to you and be like, hey Like I see what's happening around you You're not seeing what I'm saying. Yes, and they cuz you're asleep. You're not noticing you're not seeing what I'm saying That's why it's so important for us to have brothers and sisters that we walk together with in Christ People who are willing to not just say yes, and that's great no good for you and and Agree with every decision that you make well and also who understand the storm is divine, right? You're not just looking at your life going man, man. That really seems I am so glad that I don't live your life I can't believe you do. How would you possibly go through that? I've been like, okay So and and we're not saying that every itch every instance of trouble comes from disobedience. That's not true either No, but this one did but this one did this one totally did and Jonah owns up to it look at verse 9 I am a Hebrew. I worship Yahweh the Lord the God of heaven who made the sea and dry land and Then the back half of verse 10, there's that parenthetical comment He knew they knew he was running away from the Lord because he had already told them So when Jonah answers the questions of who I am and who my people are and who my God is and what do I do? For a living he's saying I'm a Hebrew we worship Yahweh He created everything he's the one true God all of the gods that you believe in are false and I have chosen to be disobedient to him Just let that I don't think you got I don't think you heard that think think about it for a minute I know who God is. I know how powerful God is God has given me a directive and I'm just gonna choose to go the other way But we do it all the time How many times do we do that in our everyday life? I know who my Savior is I know he died and rose for me, but I really like the flavor of this sin So I'm gonna do it anyway, or not just that You're in conversation and the opportunity to share the gospel comes up and you skip it and you skip it Yeah, you skip it because I don't know what God these people right? I don't want to make them feel weird I don't want to be uncomfortable. So I'm just gonna This isn't the right time. It's not the right time Yeah And you convince yourself that you're being spiritual enough, right? When the reality is there's this entire storm going on the storm has been placed there by God to reveal something and so in verse 10 This terrified them them is the sailors this terrified them and they asked what have you done? Notice that the pagans understand when God speaks you obey and the Israelite Here's the one true God speak and chooses to disobey It's totally backwards from the way the prophet should work Right. The prophet should be the guy when God speaks. He says yes, sir Well the Hebrews as God's people are still supposed to be the example to everyone and they fail every time all the time Makes me makes me feel super good about this. I am a servant of God. Yeah, I'm not a child of God I'm a servant of God makes me feel great when the Old Testament is your life screw up so much. I'm like, thank God There's a place for ADHD disciples in heaven. Yes But notice in verse 10 All of the sailors on the boat they're pagan they're polytheistic and now they are at the mercy of Jonah's failures Jonah's failures have placed them all in jeopardy So then we get to verse 11 through 16. Here's the third thing. I need you to see God uses Jonah's and I'm gonna put sacrifice in quotes. I'll explain why in a minute God uses Jonah's sacrifice To reveal himself to the sailors That's why I'm saying God is the major active component in this entire chapter. Look at verse 11 The seas are getting rougher and rougher. What are the seas the seas and the storm are the judgment on Jonah's disobedience? God does not allow Jonah to get away with running from him sometimes When you are in the midst of being disobedient that brick wall you run into is God's grace Not letting you fall further into sin It's not it's not the enemy the enemy is not trying to keep you down God's trying to keep you out of the muck and mire and sin. Well, he's willing though to let you get there Oh, yeah, if that's what it takes Yeah my favorite part of the old Old testament is during the wilderness wandering period when the Israelis are totally living in disobedience and they're being fed Miraculous manna every single day and they get irritated and you're like God, why can't we have me? I don't like that I don't like the man. Oh It's miraculous food, but I'm so tired of Can I have some can we have some meat at least in Egypt we got to have Oh at least in Egypt We had pots of meat. That was their excuse Let's go back to Egypt where we live in slavery where they kill our children Throw them into the Nile and feed them to animals so we can have stew And God says okay All right, you want some meat? I'm gonna give you so much meat. It's gonna come out your nose literal quote from God That is what the actual new test the Old Testament says I'm gonna give you so much meat It's gonna come out of your nose You're gonna be so sick of what you asked me for that you'll realize what I gave you first was better And you don't see him complain about me again. No You won't ever complain about God. I love no, no, right? And that's the way God deals with sin. Sometimes he lets you have so much of it that you get sick of it It's like giving someone so much chocolate that they vomit because they've eaten too much I've never found that threshold. I just want to never have But as in every analogy breaks down somewhere right Hannah, so we can have as much chocolate as we want It's completely calorie free when you pray for it first verse 11 the seas are getting rougher and rougher So they asked him what should we do to make the sea calm down for us now? Not only can Jonah not escape God revealing his sin everyone on the boats going what are we gonna do now? You brought us here. You created this problem. You gonna get us out It's all on you where Jonah is trying to run and hide and sleep below deck and stay under the radar God says uh-uh Bro, I told you to go do something. I'm gonna use these unsaved Unredeemed pagans to call out your sin and to make you do the job I sent you to do which is speak my will And even still he's like You know what I'd rather die Yes Now here's here's the thing scholars debate So look at verse 12 right look at verse 12 pick me up and throw me into the sea and it will become calm Now here's the giant mistake that a lot of Christians make You read the story With your perspective not the characters So if you've ever heard the story of Jonah or seen the VeggieTales movie, you know That God uses a miraculously large fish to rescue Jonah from the ocean But at this moment here in verses 11 and 12 Jonah does not know that Don't read it with your knowledge Read it with the characters knowledge Jonah is a real historical figure He's living in real time you and I do not know what God is going to do tomorrow in our lives What I find interesting though. He didn't repent. No, he didn't he was he wasn't like Lord. I'm sorry I'll do what you call me do. Please don't let this affect these people anymore Yeah, and so there's a lot of people who want to say that Jonah is prefiguring a Christ-like sacrifice here I will give my life to save the pagans I do not agree with that I don't see that because if that were the case Jonah would not have the attitude problem He has when we get the chapter 4 so just trust me and believe me spoiler alert Jonah still sucks in chapter 4. So I'm pretty sure I'm gonna say my decision here I do not think verse 12 is Jonah is being sacrificial Jonah is doubling down Yeah, and he's saying God if I can't run to Tarshish then just kill me. I still want to see the Ninevites judged. I Would rather give up my life then see someone lost receive God's love and This is God's chosen prophet Because the person he's wanting to redeem is someone I don't believe is redeemable and I don't know or should be shouldn't Yeah, should be if we believe in God's love they're capable of being absolutely, but I don't want to see but see he knows that Yeah, that's why he doesn't want to go He knows God's gonna rescue those people if they cry out to him and he's like they've done too much they don't deserve that Right, so I would rather I would rather give up my life. I would rather just take me now because I don't want to see it happen And that sounds so extreme, right? and Yet you and I do that every single time We fail to share the gospel with lost people I Would rather let them go to hell because it's uncomfortable for me. I'd rather let them be judged by God and and doomed for eternity Because I'm afraid of what they might think of me. I'm afraid of my social currency. I don't want to lose followers This is why the book of Jonah might be one of the most relevant books for our time because of how Live it and I work at a church and I'm out there, you know in it's hard for me to meet unsaved people It's hard for me to find the lost person But when I do I still have that gut check I mean we just talked about it those who came to the how to share the gospel without preaching class yesterday We just talked about it. There's a fine line. You got to feel that moment When is it right to press the go gospel button if you press it too much, you might lose them entirely But if you never share the gospel you're walking your entire life past people who are doomed to hell and you don't even care Well, and there's been many times I'm gonna confess my sin To where I mean we're either at dinner or you and I are doing something or want to do something together and an opportunity Comes that holy inconvenience. Yes to where Bill's gonna I mean if the if the time comes Bill's gonna take it and I'm like, I just want to eat my salad Yep, I just want to eat this meal and go I just want to do But no, we're gonna talk to this guy for an hour But but that's the thing though like it's inconveniencing me Instead of looking at every person as an opportunity and I think we had talked about this before if We all realized that we were everybody's a lifeguard Everybody's a lifeguard. Yeah, and we're looking out onto the sea and People are literally drowning and I have a lifesaver in my hand and I choose not to throw it Like what does that make me That makes me culpable in their drowning Right, if I don't take the opportunity to throw the lifesaver That's on me Now I would be the guy that was like, okay, I'm gonna throw this to you But I'm totally gonna hit you in the face with it Like fine Well throw it like a discus take your nose off And and that's kind of where Jonah's at here So notice Jonah willingly lets himself be thrown in the sea and he knows throw me in the sea and it will become calm Why because the storm is my responsibility? It is the product of my disobedience if I give in to the Lord if I let him kill me for my disobedience Why because the wages of sin is death. I have sinned against God. I am now deserving of death, but you don't deserve to die for my sin Notice he's willing to save the sailors, but he's willing to let the sin of disobedience kill the Ninevites Right. I'm totally gonna run to the ends of the earth so they can be judged but fine. I'm stuck on the boat God I'm at your mercy in a verse 13. The sailors won't do it in Verse 13 the sailors are more moral and ethical than God's chosen prophet I have met atheists who are nicer than Christians I've met pagans who are nicer and sweeter and more moral and more gentle and more loving Than pharistetical Christians and that's verse 13 instead the men did their best To row back to land. No, why not that blood on our hands? And that's what they said Yeah, I don't want your blood to be on my hands Jonah is willing for the entire city of Nineveh to be on his head, but these sailors won't sacrifice one guy Do you see the irony in what's happening here and they cry out to it? So they instead they try to do their best they try to fix a divine problem with a human effort. You can't do that If God sends a storm to your life, you will not row your way out of it You will not talk your way out of it. You will not buy your way out of it You will not finagle your way out of it If God sends a storm to get something out of your life You will live in the midst of that storm until you acquiesce because God is more stubborn than you are and For me that's saying a lot verse 14 when they verse 13 We have no idea how long they tried to row but they eventually figured out this is not going to work We are not we are not going to escape the will of Jonah's God clearly Jonah's God is now calling for his life and That's the other thing they see they know if they throw him overboard He's dead the sailors believe they are executing Jonah for disobedience to his God This is a serious God. This is an intense God. What the mess is this God doing? verse 14 then they cried out to the Notice it's all in caps pagan polytheistic sailors Now are speaking directly to Yahweh The one true God where a couple of verses ago. They're like bro, whatever your God is do a prayer We got to get out of this mess and now they're like, okay, whoever Jonah's God is This is God is legit, right? This God is for real because he's gonna kill his own servant just for being disobedient So maybe we should pray to that God so verse 14 they cry out to the Lord Please do not let us die for taking this man's life Do not hold us accountable for killing an innocent man for you Lord have done as you pleased the sailors recognize that there is a moral culpability in throwing a man overboard in the middle of a divine storm and They beg Yahweh not to hold them accountable for killing Jonah That's why I put that word sacrifice there in quotes They believe they are killing Jonah Because the polytheistic pagans don't know that God's gonna show up with a miracle You can't know a miracle ahead of time Unless you literally are a prophet And so they believe in verse 14 that God has chosen to kill Jonah verse 15 they took Jonah threw him overboard and The sea the raging sea grew calm. They sacrificed Jonah's life Which is really the price of his disobedience How many times do we sacrifice things? Because we choose to live in disobedience instead of obedience the main lesson I try to teach my children is a blessing is muted through obedience Curses are the response to disobedience. That's the big story of the Bible That's how God treats his children in verse 15 the pagan polytheistic sailors get a nice big lesson in who the real God is Who's the real God in charge and then verse 16 then then greatly feared Notice again the capital letters. They greatly feared Yahweh What started out as a calm sailing trip where they wanted to believe in whatever God they chose They got swept up into Jonah's disobedience the consequences of Jonah's disobedience and through Jonah's sacrifice They are now speaking to the one true God They offered a sacrifice to the Lord and they made vows to him I Would love to sit here and tell you that verse 16 means all of these sailors Completely converted to God fearing Jewish monotheism That's not what the verse says so I should not Try to wrap it up in a pretty sermon bow and tell you something that the text does not say it is equally possible That they added Yahweh To their pantheon of gods and not that they erased all of the other gods What is very clear in the text of verse 16? They came to fear Yahweh the one true God They offered a sacrifice which is a form of worship to the one true God and they made vows to live in honor of the one true God So proto salvation is a sacrifice So proto salvation possible Guaranteed full-on conversion to God fearing monotheism. I can't give you that but it wasn't until Jonah's confession of his sin that they were introduced to Yahweh ding ding How many times Do we miss the opportunity to talk about the love of God because we're too afraid To reveal what we're really running from what we're really hiding from what our disobedience has brought in my life And if I would just allow the gods put this storm around me. He's trying to reveal it But I'm just too stubborn God. What are they gonna think of me? Well, that's why our testimony is so important It's this is either how I am or how I was or whatever because we're all not perfect. No one's perfect We won't be perfect until we reach heaven. Yep. We all struggle with something But to be open and vulnerable vulnerable with somebody said if you've gone through it if you're going through it now I'm where you're at But I know I look I believe that the Lord can work through this situation or even just hey Go into a brother and sister. Listen, I am struggling with X Y & Z. I need you To pray with me or whatever it may be opening up that conversation It shows other people too. We know we don't have it all together We shouldn't try to pretend that we do But in that process and saying yeah, you know what? I have been struggling and I'm pretty sure It's because I'm being disobedient to the Lord Just that confession. I Mean I know for me if someone were to confess that to me It would take me back and I would start looking at myself right cuz see in the storm Without a savior is just a struggle right but when you put the Savior in the storm now It's my story, right, right. So the storm plus my Savior is my story of what God is doing the storm without my Savior It's just my struggle that I'm wearing and I'm whining like a plane about right But when you put the Savior in the middle of it now, this is my story of what God is doing and that's my testimony You know old-school saints the test the word testimony. That's when I testified to what God has done When I testified to what God has done sometimes what God has done Is not comfortable for me Right. Sometimes what God has done in my life is made my own wants and desires fail and crumble and crack God did not drive me into his art He did not draw me all the time into his arms with love. Sometimes he drove me into his arms with consequences and That is equally God's love That is equally God's divine love not letting a spiral too far down the sin cycle Because God sent the storm and in the midst of the storm He gave me a Savior the problem is if you continue to stay asleep if you can sing you to take a nap on your own Disobedience all you're doing is hurting yourself and everyone around you. You're never gonna make it to Tarshish You're gonna run to the ends of the earth and guess what? It's like running on treadmill You're actually not going anywhere You're still gonna be stuck in the same storm six months from now 12 months from now 24 months from now Why because the storm is God's love and you're not getting it You're not seeing that you're the disobedient prophet And that's why I tried to say that the overall theme of this book is God loves the disobedient because we're all disobedient The polytheistic sailors were disobedient. They didn't know who the one true God is God's chosen prophet was Obedient and hard-hearted and selfish and racist and everything else because he didn't want God's love to go to a group of people that he thinks Deserve his wrath. I would rather my God be wrathful Because he didn't put the Savior in the storm and make it the story So here's your takeaway was as we bring this one in to a close. So here's your takeaway our response You know, no, sir. Excuse me. We must recognize that some storms some storms in our lives are God's response to our disobedience our response in the storm Affects how others see God There are times and and we had to edit this to say some storms I am NOT sitting here telling you that every single difficulty in your life is the devil or every single difficulty in your life is a sovereign God Sometimes it's both right. Let's think about the story of Joseph What the what the enemy meant for evil God used for good? I would almost say that every storm can be a story if you put the Savior in it Yeah, without the Savior you just struggling man. Yeah, you just struggling to keep your head above water Because the storm was meant to drive you to the Savior and turn it into the story that draws the next person to God's love Yeah, so we must recognize that some storms in our lives are our God's response to our personal disobedience But our response to the storm affects how others see God You