Observation W verse Additional notes
Amorite / Canaanite Kings who Jos 5:1 those who were in power in the land that was being given to the Isrealites. This echos what Rahab told the spies earlier in 2:9
the Lord who Jos 5:1 Yahweh, the covenant name for God, used here to connect the covenant with Abraham to the holiness of the people, to the receipt of
the land
dried up the Jordon river what Jos 5:1 the event featured in the previous two chapters, the unmistakeable sign that the Lord of the Earth is leading His people into their land
melted in fear what Jos 5:1 the Canaanite people of the land are afraid of the God of Israel, not the people. This is an important distiction also made by Rahab 2:9
no longer had courage what Jos 5:1 the people living in the land lack the courage to fight Israel, this is another example of the inheritance rather than spoils of war
Joshua who Jos 5:2 the appointed and anointed new leader of the nation after the death of Moses (see Jos 1:1-5)
flint knives what Jos 5:2 the same kind of knife that Zipporah used to circumsize Moses's son before the Lord
circumcise Israel again what Jos 5:2 cicumcision is the sign of the Abrahamic Covenant given to Abraham to wear "in his flesh" see Genesis chapter 17:9-14. The reason for
this to be done "again" was because the generation coming up out of Egypt was required first, then had to die off in the wilderness. Ex
12:42-51
Gibeath Haaraloth where Jos 5:3 a small village outside of Jericho, the name literally translates to "hill of foreskins"
now, this is why he did so what Jos 5:4 the text breaks from a straight narrative recording of events and offers the theological context for the events themselves
men of military age who Jos 5:4 the book of Numbers details the failure of God's people to obey and the consequences for it. Num 1:3 tells us these are men 20 or
died in the wilderness where Jos 5:4 the consequences of not believing and disobeying is the removal of blessing, but not promise. These men did not get to inherit the
land, but their sons would, this illustrates how God's word can be true AND man be responsible to obey at the same time.
all the people that came out who Jos 5:5 interesting that the people of God born in captivity and slavery had kept their responsibility, but those in the wilderness did not
born in the wilderness who Jos 5:5 the people born in the wilderness, born free and not in slavery are not obedient to the Lord and do not circumcise their children
until all the men of… age died when Jos 5:6 the delay in the wilderness was to remove the entire fighting generation who did not trust in the Lord to deliver them the land
not obeyed the Lord what Jos 5:6 notice the theological context, not following the Lord into the promised land was considered disobedience by God
sworn / solemnly promised what Jos 5:6 there is a doublet in the Hebrew text here, the same word is used to describe the Lord's promise to the unfaithful generation as is used
to describe the Lord's promise to the patriarchs. The Lord's promise to the unfaithful is as guaranteed as to the unfaithful
give to us who Jos 5:6 there is a small nod to the first person author (Joshua) in his use of the first person term to take reciept of the promise from Egypt
flowing with milk and honey what Jos 5:6 the same description is given of the promised land in Exodus 3:8 the first time the people of God should have inherited it
raised up their sons what Jos 5:7 God allowed an entire unfaithful generation to perish in order that a more faithful generation would emerge from His people
in their place what Jos 5:7 there is no mistaking the author's intention, the unfaithful generation forfeited their inheritance to their children
they were still uncircumcised what Jos 5:7 this is an unacceptable state of affiars. The covenant people of God cannot take reciept of their inheritance while in disobedience
the whole nation what Jos 5:8 notice the collective group being featured, not the individual. The whole nation is the inheritor of God's promised land, they must re-
commit to the Lord together, carry the sign of circumcison together, and take receipt of their inheritance together
remained in camp until what Jos 5:8 the fighting men could not engage in battle while healing from the circumcison. Here we see God's providence at work, because the
people were so afraid of the Lord God, they did not dare to attack Israel. This gave God's people the time necessar to heal
The Lord said who Jos 5:9 Yahweh, again the covenant is in full view in this scene and theme
I have rolled away what Jos 5:9 there is a bit of phonetics at play in the Hebrew here. The original word for "rolled away" is /ga-LEL/ which sounds like Gilgal
reproach of Egypt what Jos 5:9 the word 'reproach' can also be translated as slavery, shame, or disgrace. The collective circumcision of the people is the separation of
their national identity from that of escaped slaves to covenant inheritors
celebrated the Passover what Jos 5:10 another similarity to the Exodus narrative, the people of God celebrate the Lord's miracluous provision of salvation before leaving
Egypt and before taking receipt of the Land that was promised to them so long ago
the day after, that very day when Jos 5:11 the writer is making a clear chronological marker, ie "the very first day" of this new season of inheritance
ate some of the produce… the what Jos 5:11-12 an often overlooked verse, this is a powerful example of God's provision for His people. For 40 years God supernaturally provides
manna stopped manna for His people to eat while they are wandering in the wilderness, and on this day after the Passover, it stops completely. What is
the variable? The people finally ate of the land God had intended for them to receive coming out of Egypt
near Jericho where Jos 5:13 Joshua's first military target, the first place the people would receive their inheritance from the Lord of the Land they are now eating in
saw a man who Jos 5:13 Like the patriarch Abraham (Gen 18:2), Joshua sees a theophany or more likely a Chirstophany (a pre-incarnate apperance of Jesus)
Are you for us? what Jos 5:13 Joshua's question is clear, are you for us or against us
Neither, as commander what Jos 5:14 The Commander's answer reveals more than we often realize. He turns Joshua's question around and asks whose side Joshua is on
I have now come what Jos 5:14 Christ, the One True Commander of the Lord's army, not just human but angelic as well, had come to lead the people to receive the
Joshua fell facedown what Jos 5:14 something told Joshua that he was standing in the presence of divinity and he responds by bowing down & worshiping the Commander
where you are standing is what Jos 5:15 like Moses before Him, Joshua has a solitary moment with the Creator of the World and the Covenant Maker of Isreal. God is leading
holy His people to receive blessing and provison from Him according to His promises that have now come due.