Observation W verse Additional notes
now when all the kings who Jos 9:1 the "kings" or commanders of the other people groups in the land
heard about these things what Jos 9:1 heard about Isreal's defeat at the first battle of Ai, and possibly the complete victory at the second battle as well
list of "ites" peoples who Jos 9:1 interestingly, the people groups are listed in the same order as they are in Deuteronomy 20:17, this may be how the Gibeonites knew
they were next in line to be attacked. Seeing as the Law was just read by Joshua to all the people in the last chapter
they came together what Jos 9:2 intead of the portrait of "fear and melting" Rahab gave in chapter two, the people are now emboldened to attack Israel
the people of Gibeon where Jos 9:3 people who live in the hill country north west of the city of Jerusalem
heard… Jericho and Ai what Jos 9:3 the Gibeonites knew of the last two people's who stood against Israel and also knew they were next
resorted to a ruse what Jos 9:4 the Gibeonites knew what was coming and chose deception as their tool to save themselves rather than face Israel directly
worn-out, old, cracked, etc what Jos 9:4-5 the "evidence to the eyes" was the ruse, though they lived close, they disguised themselves as foreigners who lived far away
went to Joshua who Jos 9:6 the chosen, anointed, and apointed leader of Israel, the military and prophetic leader of Israel for this season
at Gilgal where Jos 9:6 remember, Gilgal is where the people re-dedicated themselves to the Lord before the campaign against Jericho (ch 5)
make a treaty with us what Jos 9:6 like Abimilech comeing to Isaac in Gen 26:28, the works of the Lord drew the Gibeonites to Joshua to seek terms of peace
perhaps you live near us what Jos 9:7 Joshua and the Israelites were suspicious of them, and they should have followed that feeling!
we are your servants what Jos 9:8 notice the Gibeonites don't directly lie at this point, they merely state that they are willing to submit to Joshua's authority,
interestingly the word used here can also be translated: bond-servant, servant, or slave
come from a… distant country where Jos 9:9 this is an outright lie, given their appearance and the props they brought with them, the lie was always intended
because of the fame what Jos 9:9 like Rahab, the people of the land had heard about the miraculous power of the Lord and the Gibeonites use this to their advantage
LORD Your God who Jos 9:9 in this verse, the second person pronoun is actually there, it reads: Yahweh your Eloheim or Yahweh Your God of all authority
we have heard reports what Jos 9:9-11 all the "reports" the Gibeonites list are things that had happened a while ago, notice they leave out Jericho and Ai, which verse one
tells us they knew. This detail would have given away their proxitmity to Joshua, so they told the truth, but not the whole truth
repeated deception what Jos 9:12-13 the Gibeonites repeat their deception to Joshua trying to drive home their desire for a treaty
did not inquire of the LORD what Jos 9:14 one of, if not the biggest lesson from this chapter is right here, the people of God did not consult God before making a decision.
Joshua made a treaty who Jos 9:15 Joshua lead the way in making the treaty
leaders of the assembly who Jos 9:15 the leaders or elders of the assembly of Israel also followed suit and ratifited it by oath, this is a failure of all leadership in Israel
three days after when Jos 9:16 it did not take long for the deception to be revealed. Three short days Israel discovers it has been deceived. Possibly from spies
the Isrealites set out what Jos 9:17 at this point the narrative seems to suggest the people were prepared to exact revenge for the deception and attack the Gibeonites
did not attack what Jos 9:18 but at the very next verse, we see that Israel is held back from attacking
because… sworn an oath what Jos 9:18 this is another powerful lesson to be drawn from this chapter, the lack of integrity in Gibeon did not authorize a lack of integrity in
Israel. While many may assume that since the oath was made under false pretenses it should not be valid, Joshua and the elders
honored it and by doing so honored the Lord who they swore the oath to
you are under a curse what Jos 9:23 Joshua, constrained by the oath he and the leaders had taken could not kill the Gibeonites, however, he did not allow their deception
to go unanswered. In essense, he took them at their word (9:8) and made them slaves of the nation.
woodcutters & water carriers what Jos 9:23 both of these jobs are labor intensive, the people of Gibeon would pay for their ancestors deception with manual labor
for the house of my God what Jos 9:23 though deception may have been what drew the Gibeonites into servicel, they are the only outsiders to serve the Lord at the Temple
we feared… this is why what Jos 9:24 here we see the fear of the Gibeonites contrasted with the fear of Rahab. While Rahab's faith in the Lord was genuine, the Gibonites
was selfish. Interestingly, both Rahab and the Gibeonites employed decption. However, Rahab's was in line with the Lord's will, the
Gibeonites were in directly contrast to it. This does not mean the Lord authorizes or delights in deception, it is an evaluation of the
do whatever seems good what Jos 9:25 the Gibeonites remain in submission to Joshua as they were in the beginning, knowing they were caught by decption they do not fight
they are to this day when Jos 9:27 "this day" is the day the book of Joshua was written, not the day we are reading it now.
continued protection what Jos 9:27 there are several references to the Lord's continued protection of the Gibeonites throughout the Old Testament. First, when King Saul
launches an unauthorized campaign to kill them, the Lord responds with a famine which David sought the Lord to stop (2 Sam 21:1-9)
The Gibeonites are also mentioned in the book of Nehemiah (3:7, 7:25) illustrating they were still a part of Israel's community after the
return to the land and the rebuilding during the post-exilic period.