Observation W verse Additional notes
Joshua, son of Nun who Jos 2:1 the newly appointed and anointed leader of Israel, the man now tasks with leading God's people into the promised land
secretly sent spies what Jos 2:1 the literal word used here means "to be deaf, to keep silent". The intention is that the spies were sent not only secret from
Canaanites, but also from the rest of Israel. Joshua had been a part of the previous spying of the land roughtly 38 years
earlier, and the public disobedience of God followed quickly from the bad report the spies gave publically to the people.
Joshua learns from his lesson and ensures the spies will report back to him and him alone first.
especially Jericho where Jos 2:1 before the spies ever leave camp, Joshua has selected his first military target. Jericho was the "gate keeper" if you will to
the valley that lay beyond it. If the Israelites were to be sucessful in taking the Land the Lord is giving them, this well
fortified city must be first in their campaign.
a prostitute named Rahab who Jos 2:1 the exact nature of Rahab's profession is unclear. She is an immoral women who sells access to her body. But, this view may
fit well as (a) a cultic temple prostitute or (b) a professional companion prostitute. It should also be noted, she is the first
gentile convert in Canaan, mentioned in the geneology of Jesus Christ, as well as recorded as an example of faith in the New
Testament. Matt 1:5, Heb 11:31, James, 2:25. Her allegience is made clear in this chapter, she chooses to trust and follow
God in opposition to her culture and neighbors
king of Jericho who Jos 2:2 this is not a specific person but rather a position in a given city at a given time
sent a message to Rahab what Jos 2:3 the text does not say how the king knows the spies location, but just that he sends word to Rahab to hand them over
hidden the two men what Jos 2:4 at this point, Rahab's motives are clear. She has sided with the incoming Israelites against her own people and town, this is
an act of faith on her part. She hasn't spoken with them yet, she just acted. Rahab's actions demonstrate her faith in God
did not / do not know what Jos 2:4-5 Rahab's active deception is not part of her "example" of faith, but her boldness to put her life on the line for faith is
go quickly… catch them where Jos 2:5-7 Rahab offers a ruse to lead the king's emmisaries away from the city by sending them out into the hill country, this is a
second action of faith taken by Rahab before speaking to the invaders
stalks of flax on the roof what Jos 2:6 the flax would have been dried in the sun and then woven in to linen later. She may have grown it, collected it, or purchased
it
gate was shut what Jos 2:7 to aid in protection of the city, large gates were shut at night to ensure the safety of those inside the city.
she went up on the roof where Jos 2:8 this is another action of faith performed by Rahab. It is possible that she did not want to fully side with Israel, but rather
was playing the numbers to ensure if they did turn out to be as powerful as the claims she has heard are. Rahab's
interaction with the spies in the scene rules out any understanding of her character other than that of faith in the One True
God
I know the LORD what Jos 2:9 interestingly, the word recorded here is God's covenent name for His chosen people. Obviously, Rahab did not write the
book, but rather Joshua and possibly Eleazar, however the text is also the product of the Divine Author who knows the kind
of relationship Rahab with HIm. I (Pastor Bill) believe this word is used to illusrate the faith in the heart of Rahab that bring
her to join the people of God in the land of God
given you this land what Jos 2:9 Rahab also 'knows' the land itself now belongs to Israel. How she knows this is unclear, but the NT records her faith
great fear of you has fallen what Jos 2:9 the word 'fear' represents a deep internal dread or terror, most usually associated with the Divine
melting in fear what Jos 2:9 the fear of the Lord had gripped the people of the land, not because of the Hebrews, but because of the acts of God
water of the Red Sea what Jos 2:10 the story of the Lord's power demonstrated in the Exodus has now gone before the people parting the Red Sea. Remember,
this event was almost 40 years ago now! Ex 14:27-31
two kings of the Amorites who Jos 2:10 this event is much more recent in history from the story of the Exodus, this can be found in Numbers 21:21-35. Joshua leads
the people of God to deafeat his kings because they would not allow the nation of Israel to cross over their lands on their
way out of Egypt at the Exodus
Lord your God who Jos 2:11 the literal words here are Yahweh (covenant God) and Elohim (majestic ruler) Rahab is describing two powerful component
of the name of God, especially for one who is NOT a part of the God's original covenant group, she is a Gentile covert
heaven above / earth below what Jos 2:11 the language Rahab uses is strikingly similar to the 10 Commandments in the prohibition of idols (Exod 20:4, Deut 5:8)
swear to me what Jos 2:12 Rahab is not the first person of faith to also ask someone to swear an oath, see Abraham in Gen 24:8 and Jacob Gen 47:31
show kindness what Jos 2:12 the word used here, when describing God is "everlasting lovingkindness" when used of humans it speak of loyalty to
to my family who Jos 2:12 Rahab is not merely negotiating for her own life, but for the lives of her entire family. "Salvation" is coming to Rahab and
her entire household. This is a pre-figure of the gentile salvation that takes place in Acts 10 at the home of Cornelius
give me a sign what Jos 2:12 while this kind of request is viewed as lacking faith in the New Testment, there is an established precendent of signs in the
Old Testament See Ge 24:14; See Ex 3:12; Jos 4:6; 1 Sa 2:34; 2 Ki 19:29
save us from death what Jos 2:13 Rahab's understanding is paramount in this scene. This is a short review of Rahab's theology in this scene:
1. Yahweh is the One God of the Universe
2. God has the power to do miracles and provide for His people's blessing
3. God can and will use His awesome power to rescue and provide for His people
4. God has decided the land of Canaan is to be given to His people
5. God will respond to the request of faith
6. Salvation from death is only found in faith and not military action or deception
our lives for your lives what Jos 2:14 the spies sent by Joshua guarantee her life and the lives of her family, only if certain conditions are met
three terms must be met what Jos 2:14-21the three terms are first stated by the spies, then repeated by Rahab herself. They are:
1. Rahab must keep their meeting a secret
2. Rahab must have the scarlet cord hanging in her window
3. Rahab must have all those she wishes to protect in her house.
if any of these terms were violated, the deal was off. She and her family would face the same certain death as the city itself
the Lord has surely given us what Jos 2:22-24when the news of these events reaches back to Joshua, his sole interpretation is that God is the divine property owner
giving the promised land of Canaan to His chosen people. Israel.