Observation W verse Additional notes
Why chapter 12? why ch 12 This chapter serves two purposes in the book of Joshua. First, it is the closing reivew of the actions that have been taken to this point.
As the previous chapter concluded, "the land rested from war". Secondly, this chapter introduces the next major theme which is the
distribution of the land to the Lord's people. This is still an inheritance theme, but it will not focus more on who receives what from the
Lord.
kings of the land who Jos 12:1 the word "king" refers first to the ruler of an individual city-state. There was no single Caananite government structure at this time, as
seen by the southern and northern alliances that attempted to stand against Israel. Thematically, the repeating of the "kings"
illustrates the ending of their authority and the implimenting of the God's authority over the areas of the country
Isrealites had defeated what Jos 12:1 notice that while God promised to give His people the land, the people themselves are said to have "defeated" the enemy. This is a
great example of God' authority working over and through man's responsibility
east of the Jordon where Jos 12:1 These first victories were won by Moses on the eastern side of the Jordon, Joshua's leadership takes over before the cross the river
Arnon to Hermon where Jos 12:1-6 this area is easter of the Jordan river, from the Dead Sea all the way north to the Sea of Galillee. The land is described from the
southern border to the northern border
Moses, servant of the Lord who Jos 12:6 while the book of Joshua focuses on his leadership, it cannot be overlooked that Joshua trained under Moses and personally observed
his leadership first-hand. As possibly the largest deliverer-prophet in the Old Testament, it should not be forgotten that Moses did lead
the people to fight and receive the inheritence on the eastern side of the Jordan.
gave their land what Jos 12:6 here we see the theme of inheritence come up again, Moses, under the direction of the Lord, gave the land to Ruben, Gad, Manasseh
possession what Jos 12:6 the word used here for possession has a specific connotation of being received through heritage or inheritance, it is not simply a thing
to be owned, but a gift that has been willed to the recipient.
here is the list what Jos 12:7 this sentence marks the beginning of the second section in this chapter, the location and thus inheritence changes focus
Joshua who Jos 12:7 Joshua is now in view as the leader of the people, leading them to receive what the Lord has already given to them
west side of the Jordan where Jos 12:7 the next area of land to be in view is the same area that has been recorded thus far in the book of Joshua, the land west of the Jordan
Lebanon to Halak where Jos 12:7 the valley of Lebanon is the northern border, just west of Mount Hermon. This area stretches southward to Mount Halak which is
south of the Dead Sea. In opposite fashion, the land is described from the northern border to the southern border.
Joshua gave their lands what Jos 12:7 again, it was the Lord's design to give the land to His people, but Joshua, as the chosen prophet and leader executes the plan
31 kings in all who Jos 12:8-24 the list of kings illusrates the number of smaller city-states that were defeated in the northern, central, and southern campaigns
Remember, the land is only about 150 miles north to south and 50 miles east to west. This is roughly the size of the state of New
Jersey, the fact that there were 31 kings in that area illusrates how fractured the authority and government was at this time.
what about the other tribes? who Notice the land west of the Jordan isn't described as being distributed yet. This is because this will be the focus of the next major
section of the book.
So, what does this mean? When we find a chapter like this that feels "needless" to the narrative of the book, we must take care not to ignore it too fast. Just like
the geneologies of Jesus in Matthew and Luke, a chapter like this is more about theme than activity. This chapter both transitions from
the first section of the book to the next, but also reminds the reader the theme of the book: inheritence.