Observation W verse Additional notes
Adonizedek / Adoni-Zedek who Jos 10:1 this is the human king ruling over the citystate of Jerusalem at this time. The name is made up of two words: Adoni - the Lord and
Zedek with is either "that which is right" or "righteous" or Zedek is a name by itself, which would made the final translation: My Lord is
king of Jerusalem who Jos 10:1 the citystate of Jerusalem already existed at the time of the conquest, while this would become an important city to the Jewish nation,
at this point in Biblical history it is a pagan city ruled by a pagan king
heard that what Jos 10:1 the events of this chapter are in response to the events preceeding it. While before the news of the Israelites caused the Canaanites to
flee in fear, now their victories have emboldened their enemeies to attack rather than retreat
Joshua who Jos 10:1 the new apointed and anointed leader of God's people, Joshua is both a military leader and a prophet speaking to and for God
taken Ai… treaty with Gibeon what Jos 10:1 the anger seen here by the Jerusalem king is not only at the crushing defeat of Ai, but at the treaty made by the Gibeonites. This is seen
as a betrayal by the Canaanites who now gather together to exact their revenge on their disloyal countrymen
people were much alarmed what Jos 10:2 just as Rahab described the people of Jericho in chapter two, the people of Jerusalem and their king are alarmed, literally to be filled
with great fear or dread, or to be frightened, at the joint prospect of Isarel's victory and Gibeon's betrayal
an important city where Jos 10:3 the city of Gibeon was viewed as important, this likely refers to its military value either in location, fighting men or both
five cities / kings where Jos 10:3 all the cities mentioned are to the south of the areas of fighting so far in the book of Joshua, the people groups called upon had not
faced the army of Israel yet, remember, Joshua started in the middle of the promised land for the conquest
because it made peace what Jos 10:4-5 the reason for this united assault is clear, the allied kings are attacking Gibeon becauase of it's political alliance with Israel. The reason
for this sudden turn could be disloyalty or, with Gibeon out of the way, there is nothing left between Joshua and Jerusalem and the
king fears his city is next to be attacked by Joshua's superior force.
at Gilgal where Jos 10:6 the place where the people renewed their covenant with the Lord and circumcised all who had not been during the wilderness
wandering period. This is a place of spiritual commitment for Israel
do not abandon your servants what Jos 10:6 interestingly, there is nothing in the agreement made with the Gibeonites from the previous chapter that requires Israel to come to the
aid of the Gibeonites. The peace treaty was that Isreal would not kill them.
Joshua marched up what Jos 10:7 why does Joshua respond to Gibeon's call for aid? Did he not just stop his own people from killing them last chapter? Could this not be
seen as an easy way to rid Israel of an enemy without putting his own soliders at risk? Why not let the Canannites kill each other?
The LORD who Jos 10:8 Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel
I have given them what Jos 10:8 again the LORD uses the prophetic pefect tense to describe something the Lord has already done that Joshua has not experienced yet
Not one of them what Jos 10:8 like previous battles, the Lord declares to Joshua that He has already decreed the outcome of this battle. This does not preclude Joshua
or his men from going or fighting, only that by following the Lord on faith their victory is assured
after an all night march when Jos 10:9 here is another question, why does Joshua march all night long to reach Gibeon? Is it a desire to fulfill an unrecorded part of the peace
treaty between Israel and Gibeon, or is it a military tactic to fight all the southern kingdoms at once rather than city by city?
threw them into confusion what Jos 10:10 the Lord caused the confusion in the enemy camp, this is another example of the Lord fighting "ahead" of Joshua
Israel defeated them what Jos 10:10 while the Lord had already decreed the outcome of the battle, the victory is recorded as being achieved by Joshua and the army
large hailstones what Jos 10:11 while in English we automatically think of hailstones as frozen, the Hebrew word here records "stones" coming down from "heaven"
this could be frozen ice as we consider it today or actual rock being thrown down, the text is unclear because this is not the focus of
the story. God's intervention in the event is more central than the exact nature of His intervention
more of them died… who Jos 10:11 the Lord dispatched more of the enemy with the "stones" or "hailstones" falling from the sky than Isreal did with the sword
the Lord gave them over who Jos 10:12 the text makes it clear that it is the Lord and not the strength of Isreal's military that fought and won this engagement
Joshua said to the Lord what Jos 10:13 the first poetic reference is Joshua's request to the Lord for more time to defeat the enemies of Isreal, the response which is more
explanatory is the Lord answering Joshua's request
the sun stopped what Jos 10:13 while some accuse the Bible of beign scientifically innaccurate, modern scientists describe 'sunrise' and 'sunset' without the accusation
of inaccuracy. The simple fact is the sun is stable and unmoving, but Joshus likely didn't understand this yet.
delayed going down what Jos 10:13 the earth could have stopped rotating complely, or perhaps the earth's rotation just slowed signifcantly to allow Joshua more time
never been a day like this what Jos 10:14 notice that to the writer, the greater miracle was the "God listened to a man" not that God stopped the sun. The two previous miracles
in this book, the river Jordan and the walls of Jericho were both at God's leading, this was at Joshua's request!
surely the Lord was fighthing what Jos 10:15 again the main theme of this chapter is seen in the Lord's fighting for Israel and they in turn responding to His leading