Observation W verse Additional notes
the Isrealites who Jos 7:1 notice the text holds the nation as a whole accountable, not just one person, but the community of Israel is guilty of disobedience
unfaithful what Jos 7:1 the word here implies not only unfaithfulness in the relational sense, but also the violation of an established standard
devoted things what Jos 7:1 refers to things "under the ban" or the /her-rem/ this were things devoted to God and God alone
Achan who Jos 7:1 due to the events of this chapter, this is the only things in the Bible that Achan is known for. There are no other mentions of this man.
took some of them what Jos 7:1 the verb used here means to "take, seize, grasp, receive, or take away" the act is clear, it is an intentional "taking" of devoted things
the LORD who Jos 7:1 notice the use of the covenant name for God, the city was the first reciept of the covenant promise, which required covenant
obedience it is at this point that Isreal's covenant relationship with the LORD is broken, they are about to discover it, but it's already
Joshua who Jos 7:2 the apointed and anointed leader of Isreal, continues to follow the plan of taking the promised land one station at a time
Ai near Beth Aven where Jos 7:2 a city approximately 10 miles to the west from Jericho
Go up, spy out the region what Jos 7:2 Joshua employs the same strategy he used in Jericho. Sending spies first to assess the size of the effort the military is about to make
not all the army who Jos 7:3 the spies return and judge the size of the force necessary to take the city
do not weary the whole army what Jos 7:3 God's people underestimate not only their opponent, but also the power of God working for them, this is only the second city
only a few people live there who Jos 7:3 this final statement gives the reader the view of the army of Israel, they are juding their response based on the people, not God's plan
routed by the men of Ai what Jos 7:4 the verb "routed" used here literally means to be driven to flee or retreat. This was not the quick and easy victory they expected
killed about 36 of them what Jos 7:5 another example of the "wages of sin" bringing death, 36 Israelites lost their lives because of Achan's sin against the Lord
chased / struck them down what Jos 7:5 the "little" amount of men from Ai were about to chase and defeat the small contingent of Israel's army sent to defeat them
hearts melted in fear what Jos 7:5 this is the very same reaction the Canaanites had of Israel when they saw the Lord's power at the Red Sea (Jos 2:11) The people have
already given in to their own pride beliving that it is THEM that the enemy fears and not the Lord God who is giving them the land
Joshua tore his clothes what Jos 7:6 a sign of remorse and repentance, Joshua knows there is a need for repetance and mourning over what has been done
facedown before the Ark what Jos 7:6 the Ark is the symbol of God's presence in the midst of His people. Joshua lays before God in humulity and submission to the Lord
the elders did the same who Jos 7:6 the elders of the people follow Joshua's lead and collectively join Joshua in the repentance and seeking understanding
Sovereign LORD who Jos 7:7 lit. "Adonai Yahweh" the first word highlights God's authority and rule over all persons and things, the latter refers to His covenant
why did you bring… what Josh 7:7 Joshua's question is framed based on the previous actions of God. Why did God to the amazing things He has done in the past if this
was always going to happen. Joshua is overcome with what has happened to them, he hasn’t stopped to ask God why the current event
with Achan has happened.
will hear… will wipe us out what Jos 7:8-9 Joshua's prayer moves from the previous actions of God to the near future actions of the opposition, he is afraid for their lives and for
the glory of the name of the Lord from this point forward
your own great name what Jos 7:9 Joshua ends his prayer by focusing on the impact this loss and potential counter-attack with affect the name of the Lord.
stand up! Isreal has sinned what Jos 7:10-11 the point here is made clear by God, Israel has sinned, why are you crying to me in prayer and not dealing with the sin?! Get up!
they have violated who Jos 7:11 God holds the nation as a whole accountable for the disobedience and covenant breaking. They have stole, lied, and kept the theft
this is why Israel cannot what Jos 7:12 obedience before God is the requirement for receipt of His inheritence, the people are disobedient and thus inheritence is withheld
liable to destruction what Jos 7:12 just as they had been warned in the previous chapter (6:18), by taking the devoted things they have marked themselves for destruction
this is what the LORD says what Jos 7:12 Joshua speaks as the prophet and tells the people what the LORD says to his people
I will not be with you anymore what Jos 7:12 God is clear, His power, presence, and blessing do not accompany disobedience, which is the defintion of sin
unless you destroy what Jos 7:12 the destruction of the devoted things was the instuction in the beginning. God's instruction returns them to obedience
Go, consecreate the people what Jos 7:13 God's solution is not the plan a better military strategy, but rather to solve the spiritual problem first, be holy and restored to Him
in the morning when Jos 7:14 first thing, the thing of the utmost importance
present yourselves what Jos 7:14 the presentation process was supernaturally guided, only God knew Achan was the guilty party. He is leading His people to root out sin
destroyed by fire what Jos 7:15 this serves the dual purpose of "giving it to God" as it should have been done originally, as well as ridding the community of Israel with
a sinful line of inheritance that would be likely to repeat the same mistake later
disgraceful, outrageous what Jos 7:15 the actions of Achan are disgraceful / wicked because they are a violation of God's covenant
identifying Achan who Jos 7:16-18 this would have been a gut wrenching process, but was how the Lord publically identified Achan's sin
tell me what you have done what Jos 7:19 Joshua confronts Achan as the prophet leader calling him to confess his sin before the nation
It is true! what Jos 7:20-21 using similar language to Eve in Eden's public moment of sin confession, Achan admits, "I saw… I coveted… I took" on top of this,
Achan also admits that they are currently hidden in his own tent. This further ilustrates his knowledge of his wrongdoing.
messengers… before the what Jos 7:22-23 Joshua dispatches servants to go and find the stolen items described by Achan, but when the items return they are not described as
LORD being exposed before Joshua, or even all of Israel, but before the LORD. This has a very "offering" like feel to it, returning to the Lord
that which was stolen from Him in sinful disobedience
Ethical problem some have read this passage and questioned why God had Achan's children executed for his sin. In Deut 24:16, we find a direct
instruction from the Lord that parents and children are not to be put to death for one another's sin. "each will die for their own sin" is
how the verse ends. Thus, the Christian should look for a way to harmonize these passages. The traditional answer is that all who died
on this day were complicit in the crime against the Lord. Whether his family actively helped to commit the crime or assisted in the
concealment of it, all who were executed were guilty. If we can acknowledge the supernatural identification of the perpetrators from
the nation as a whole, then it is not straining credulity too far to think God knew who was and was not part of Achan's sin in his family.