Well good morning. Welcome to Catalysts. My name is Bill. For all of you joining us online, thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family. So here at Catalysts we are about one thing and that is loving people too. Life change in Christ. So if you are here this morning, whether you are physically here in the church building with us or you are joining us online, thank you for being a part of our church family. We love you. But I love you enough to tell you the truth, which is I love who you are today but I don't want you to stay that way. I love who you are today but I'm going to love who you are tomorrow even more because you are going to become more like Jesus. And that's our goal every time we come together as a church is to grow in ourselves and become more like Jesus because he is the ultimate example. So in the video opening you saw the title of this series is called Love Like Jesus. So let me give you the key thought that's going to bring all of these messages together. Here it is. The love of Jesus leaves behind lessons to learn and an example to follow. Jesus is the singular best example we have of how to love others. And I believe following his example is the best thing that we can possibly do. So if you have your Bibles I'm going to ask that you turn with me to the Gospel of Luke chapter 8. The Gospel of Luke chapter 8. While you're turning to Luke chapter 8, let's review the big Bible story of how we get to where we're at. So here we go. Genesis 1, 1. In the beginning God creates the heavens and the earth into the Garden of Eden. He places two humans, Eve and the sea. Just seeing if everybody's paying attention. Then sin enters the world. Ultimately they are thrust out of the Garden. We fast forward. God sends a flood to restart humanity. And Noah and his wife are on the ark and Noah's three sons are Shem, Ham, and Japheth. See if I give you the same questions all the time Alex you're going to know them all. Shem, Ham, and Japheth. That's right. So Noah and his wife, his three sons, and their wives they restart. Then we fast forward to Genesis chapter 12. God finds a man named Abram. He makes a very special promise or covenant with him called the Abrahamic covenant. And Abram's wife's name is? Sarai. Sarai. Or Sarai would have taken either one. Good job. Then he tells them you're going to have a whole bunch of descendants. I'm going to give this land to your people. And Abram has a son of promise on which the promise goes to. Abram's son of promise is? Isaac. Isaac's son of promise is? Jacob. Jacob. Then you fast forward to the end of the book of Genesis. And Jacob and his sons go into Egypt to be protected by their son Joseph who was sold into slavery ahead of them in order to prepare the way. It would be a great end of the story. But there's 65 more books of the Bible to go. So then the book of Exodus opens. They're in Egypt. But now the children of Israel are enslaved and they cry out for a deliverer. And so God sends them a man named Moses whose brother is named Aaron whose sister is named Miriam. Moses and Aaron they perform the miracles which ultimately leads to the 10 plagues which ultimately leads to them coming out of Egypt during the Exodus story. Miriam leads the women of the children of Israel in worshiping Yahweh as they go out of town. The worship team literally struck up a capella on the way out. Then they make it all the way to Mount Sinai. Moses goes up. He brings down the tablets. And he finds that they are worshiping a golden calf. So then Moses gets really ticked and I could totally get this, right? We all just traveled somewhere for a church retreat. And I just go spend some time with God. I get the whole sermon ready. I come downstairs and all of you are acting a fool. And I pick up my iPad and I just throw it on the ground. That totally makes sense to me. So then ultimately they wander in the wilderness for how many years? 40 years. God raises up a new leader for Israel whose name is, starts with a J, Joshua. Joshua leads the children of Israel across the Jordan River into the promised land. They take it over. Then begins the judges period where everybody did what was right in their own eyes. And then ultimately Israel gets jealous of all of the other kingdoms. And what do they want to have like all the other kids have? They want a king. And the first king of the United Monarchy of Israel is? Followed by. Followed by. That's right, Saul David Solomon. Good job. Then after Solomon has his sons, what happens? Civil war. And the nation is fractured in two and it stays in two for pretty much the rest of the Old Testament period. Then God, ultimately because they could still not figure out how to just be obedient, God sends the northern kingdom of Israel into captivity. Who conquers the northern kingdom of Israel? Assyria. Anybody know when? It's right about 722 BC. I just want to know if anybody had that one like in the gun. So 722 BC, Assyria comes in, they conquer the northern kingdom of Israel. They get carried away. Then Assyria gets conquered by Babylon. Babylon comes down and conquers the southern kingdom of Judah. Do you ever notice how as soon as we get to this part, the number of voices who answer the questions gets a lot smaller? KC, you got to just keep going. All right, so then Babylon comes in and he's like, Then Babylon comes in and conquers the southern kingdom of Judah. Then Babylon itself is defeated by Persia. And then Persia lets everyone go home. There's Ezra, there's Nehemiah, Esther, Hezekiah, ultimately leading to Malachi, the end of the Old Testament. He says, I'm going to send you a Messiah and you'll know who the Messiah is because I'm going to send the forerunner ahead of him. And that's how the Old Testament closes. How many years of silence between Malachi and Matthew? 400 years. God doesn't say anything. No new prophets, no new scriptures, no new angelic messages, no new miracles for four centuries. And then God breaks his silence by sending an angelic messenger to the temple to speak to a priest who happened to be on duty that day. And he tells the priest, you're going to have a promised son, your wife. It's going to have, you're going to get pregnant, going to have a baby. And the name of your son will be John the Baptist. John the Baptist. John the Baptist is the forerunner that Malachi foretold. And then after John the Baptist, another angel shows up and appears to a young woman who's pledged to be married to a dude named Joseph. And she's going to have a son, and her son's name will be Jesus. Everybody gets that one. That's how we get good, right? So then Mary, that begins the gospel period. And then Jesus, so we have the birth narrative, which we celebrate at Christmas. And then you have this one story when Jesus is 12 and he's at the temple and his parents leave him behind because he's debating with the priest. And then we fast forward to 30, when his ministry, or around about 30, when his ministry begins. And then that's where we're at right now. All of that story in Scripture has taken place to get us to hear. So now we look at Luke chapter 8. I'm going to read from 26 to 39, and then we're going to go back and we're going to look at it. Luke chapter 8, 26 to 39. They sailed to the region of the Gerasenes, which is across the lake from Galilee. When Jesus stepped ashore, he was met by a demon-possessed man from the town. For a long time, this man had not worn clothes or lived in a house, but had lived in tombs. When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell at his feet, shouting at the top of his voice, What do you want with me, Jesus, son of the most high God? Don't beg me, I torture you. Or, don't beg me, I torture you is really bad reading. Let's try that one again. I beg you, don't torture me. See how the ADHD gets it backwards? Let's try to read one line ahead and get really confused. Son of the most high God, I beg you, don't torture me. That would be a whole different story if it was backwards. 29. For Jesus had commanded the impure spirit to come out of the man. Many times it had seized him, and though he was chained hand and foot, and kept under guard, he had broken his chains and had been driven by the demon into solitary places. Jesus asked him, What is your name? Legion, he replied, because many demons had gone into him. And they begged Jesus repeatedly not to order them to go into the abyss. A large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside. The demons begged Jesus to let them go into the pigs, and he gave them permission. When the demons came out of the man, they went into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and was drowned. When those tending the pigs saw what had happened, they ran off and reported this in the town and countryside. And the people came out to see what had happened. When they came to Jesus, they found the man from whom the demons had gone out, sitting at Jesus' feet, dressed, and in his right mind, and they were afraid. Those who had seen it told the people how the demon-possessed man had been cured. Then all the people of the region of the Gerasenes asked Jesus to leave them, because they were overcome with fear. So he got into the boat and left. And the man from whom the demons had gone out begged to go with him. But Jesus sent him away, saying, Return home and tell how much God has done for you. So the man went away and told all over town how much Jesus had done for him. So let's rewind back to the story and make sure we get the characters right. So verse 26, they sailed to the region of the Gerasenes, which is across the lake from Galilee. So let's talk about the snowman barbell picture again, okay? This is where this stuff all starts to make sense. So if you're taking notes, you draw, and I got to try to do this backwards, right? My wife pointed out the last time I did this exercise, I'm drawing in my head from my perspective, which is 100% backwards to you. So you draw three circles, just like a snowman, one, two, three. The top circle, this up here is Galilee. The middle circle, this is Samaria. And the bottom circle, this is Judea, right? So Jerusalem's down here. Bethany, where Lazarus, Martha, and Mary live, down here. Jesus' conversation with the Samaritan woman in the well, that happens here in the middle of Samaria. Then up here in Galilee, Galilee's where Nazareth is. Galilee's where Capernaum is, which is where Peter, Andrew, James, and John are from. Capernaum is also on the Sea of Galilee. So if your snowman is right here, then here you draw the barbell. Small circle, a line, and another circle. Up here is the Sea of Galilee. The line in between is the Jordan River, and the circle down here, the other half of the barbell, is the Dead Sea. And this little simple graph is going to help you understand where we're at. So we're at the top of the snowman, that's Galilee, and snowman is right next to the Sea of Galilee. Go figure, right? That makes a lot of sense. Sea of Galilee. However, there are other names for the Sea of Galilee. So the Sea of Galilee is also called the Sea of Tiberius, right? And it's also called Lake Gennesaret. All three names for the same body of water. Sea of Galilee, Lake Gennesaret, Sea of Tiberius. So we're up here in the top part of the snowman. We're over here, right where the snowman rests up against the barbell, that you never thought this is what you'd hear when you came to church. And this is where the story takes place. So Jesus gets in a boat from Galilee, and he travels across the Sea of Galilee, and he lands over here in the region of the Gerasenes. Now if you really want to make your map even better, on the other side of the barbell, just draw a really big, tall oval, and put ten small circles in it. This is called the Decapolis. Over here is there are ten Greco-Roman cities, and they're just totally Greek in their nature. There's not a lot of Hebrew people who live over here. So Jesus travels across the top of the barbell, across the Sea of Galilee, over to the region of the Gerasenes, the top of the Decapolis, ten cities, and this is where the story takes place. So first you need to realize, Jesus is no longer in his hometown. He went from Nazareth, Nazareth traveled over here to Galilee, it's really confusing backwards, over here to Galilee, and then from Galilee across the Sea of Galilee, over here to the region of the Gerasenes. He is in a totally Greek place. There are Jews who live there, but the cultural predominance of the Decapolis is all Greek in nature. And he had traveled there from Galilee, and that's probably, I mean, Capernaum, where Peter, James, John, Andrew, they're from, they're fishermen, is right on the sea. It would make a lot of sense for Jesus to have sailed right out of Capernaum, because Peter lived there, and Peter's mother-in-law would have been there, that's where Peter's wife would have been. So to me it makes a lot of sense, if he's sailing across the Sea of Galilee, he's probably coming right out of Capernaum. And they sail across the lake, so now they're on the, if you're looking at the map, they're on the east side, which is over here, they're on the east side of that lake, in a Greek place. 27, when Jesus stepped ashore, he was met by a demon-possessed man. Stop. Literally, Jesus gets off the boat, and the story comes to him. This is not like the Samaritan woman at the well in John chapter 4, where Jesus sends the disciples on ahead of them, and he strolls over to the well and strikes up the conversation. No, this demon-possessed man walks right into Jesus' life and interrupts him on the way to what he's doing. That's not an accident. If you were to continue reading in this chapter, you're going to see another moment where Jesus heals as an interruption on his way to something else. I'll just leave that for you, you can dig it up, those of you who know the story, you know where I'm going. So this interruption is a demon-possessed man from the town. And then we get a description of the demon-possessed man on the back half of 27. For a long time, this man had not worn clothes or lived in a house, but had lived in the tombs. So let's deal with the big question up front. What does demon-possessed actually mean? So let's rewind. What is a demon? So when God created the heavens and the earth, he also created another, let's just call them type of being, we call them angels, right? Angels are seen throughout scripture. There are some angels that are named very specific, like Gabriel, that's the name of an angel. There's also types of angels in the Bible. There are archangels, there are seraphim, there are cherubim. So all this is called angelology. It's the systematic study of angels. If you're looking, you know, slide note, if you want a book for it, Billy Graham years ago wrote a book called Angels, God's Holy Messengers or God's Choles and Messengers. I have a copy of it at home. Great. It's about this thick, super easy read. If you want to learn a whole lot about angels in a short amount of time, Billy Graham wrote a great book on it. So angels are created beings made by God, but they are spiritual beings. They're not mortal beings like you and I are. Then a group of these angels decide to rebel against God, and they are cast out of God's presence. And we call those fallen angels or demons. First thing you need to understand about a demon is it's the same, still same kind of being as a faithful angel. It's just now no longer allegiance to God. So a fallen angel is the same kind of being as a faithful angel, just without the allegiance factor. So that means anything in scripture that you see a holy angel do, there's no reason that a fallen angel can't do the same thing. Vice versa. Anything that you see a fallen angel do, technically a holy angel would be capable of. The question would be is, would God allow? Because over here, fallen angels, they don't have to obey God. They get to rebel against him. Faithful angels still obey God. So that's what a demon is. A demon is nothing more than a fallen angel who no longer is allegiance to God. Now what does it mean? Demon possessed man means. Possessed is the key word here. Demon possession is when a person is so deeply consumed by sin that they have given over so much of their life to demonic sinful influence that that demon actually has control of the person's body. And I know that because in this story, the demon speaks to Jesus. How do you think the demon speaks? Through the vocal cords of the human being that it is inhabiting. So I realize we just got super weird real fast, right? But I need you to understand what demon possession is or you won't understand the healing that takes place. So demon possession is when a mortal human being like you or I are so enthralled. And I don't know if you've ever seen it. And so somebody is going to ask, do I think this really happens? Not only do I think this really happens, I have personally witnessed it. So that's a conversation for another day. Come up, ask me after church. Demon possession is 100% a real thing. We're not just talking about something that happened in the first century. Because if you want to say it happened in the first century, it can't happen today. You're going to have to show me in the Bible why, right? Why do we draw a line that the Bible doesn't draw? So what is demon possession? It is when someone is so consumed by sin that they've actually given control of their life over to a demon, to a demonic entity. And in this case, this dude is like multiple demons. He uses the word legion. Legion technically means a lot. But I think the legion doesn't mean the specific number as much as a group of, not just a single. And then we see the kind of fruit that this demon control has in this man's life in the back half of 27 here. So first, Jesus is approached. And I just, I mean, I don't want you to be overly graphic, but I just want you to think about the fact that Jesus gets out of a small boat, steps out onto shore, and up walks a totally nude dude who's been living in tombs with dead things. Just, I mean, let's just imagine him from the chest up, right? Just totally nude, but from here to here. He's been living in a tomb with corpses and dead things. What does his hair look like? What does he smell like? I mean, brother's just in the wind. So there's a lot to picture here. And this is what interrupts Jesus's day? Jesus is traveling to do ministry, and he's met by a nude dead smell guy? Like, I'm trying to, sometimes we miss the human elements of the Gospels because we over sanitize the picture, right? Keep in mind, I'm only asking you to mentally picture this man from here to here. So nobody gets to go home and say, nobody gets to go home and say, my pastor got really nasty at church. No, we're only here. Everything else is out of frame. That's not on the Instagram reel right there. It's right here. But this guy is completely naked. Now, another interesting detail. So he had lived, and here's the thing. For a long time, this man had lived in this fashion. He is known as the noon tomb guy. Right? And there's a question here that scripture doesn't answer, so it allows us overly ADHD creatives to go, what did everyone else call this guy? Right? So he'd been around a long time. For a long time, 27 says, he had lived, he doesn't wear clothes, he tried to live in a house, or he lives in tombs with dead things. 28, when Jesus, or when he saw Jesus, let's get the active verbs correct. So Jesus is traveling to, I'm traveling to preach and spread the word of God to the Greek area, and up walks, woo, and the hair, and the smell, and everything. And then as soon as this nude tomb dude sees Jesus, he cries out and falls at his feet. I don't know about you, but like Anthony, if this was just you and me, and we were at the shore, and we were watching Jesus show up, and then we see, we see we know who's coming. I got to be honest. I would pull out some of my like sheep jerky, and I'd be like, dude, we got to watch this. Right? What is about to happen is going to, but there's no way we would have known that the naked demon possessed guy would bow at the feet of that Jewish teacher who's coming here to teach us something. Right? That's what changes the picture. Even though he's naked, even though he lives with tombs, he cries out at the feet of Jesus, what do you want with me, Jesus, son of the most high God? Now, let's talk about demon possession for a minute. How does the demon possessed man know that sentence? From the fallen angel that lives within his body. That's what that means. So talk about the depth of demon possession now. The demon that is within him is not only using his physical vocal cords to communicate to the son of God. The demon is capable of revealing something through his vocal cords that the human being doesn't know. Because as mortal human beings, we could not have known. Even the followers of Jesus until it was revealed to them, they could not have known that Jesus walking on earth is the divine son of God. But the demons know. They know the presence of God. Right? You know the presence of the king when you're in his presence. So I would submit to you that verse 28 is not the human being speaking. It is the demons within his body controlling his vocal cords. And why do I say that? Number one, because they use a piece of knowledge that there's no way a mortal human being would know. But number two, I beg you, don't torture me. Why? If it was the human being, right? Why would the human being fall at the feet of some random carpenter guy? Right? Because remember, they don't know Jesus is the son of God. Jesus is some random carpenter from Nazareth. Right? Fred's just at work. And it's just another stonemason. The word carpenter in the first century could mean anybody that built with physical things. So it could have been wood. It could also have been stone. Like that's 100% possible. Jesus is literally just a dude. He's got clothes on, so better than the other guy. But Jesus is just a guy. So when this demon in verse 28 says, What do you want with me, Jesus, son of the most high God? I beg you, don't torture me. The demon is not only identifying who Jesus is, he is recognizing Jesus' authority over him. Don't torture me. Directly and logically implies that Jesus, as the most son of the most high God, had the authority to command the demon. Then 29 gives us a little bit of back story here. 29, for Jesus had commanded the impure spirit to come out of the man. So what does the impure spirit mean when he says, don't torture me? The demon doesn't want to leave the host. Like I'm sorry, that's what the Bible says. I can't make that one any nicer. The demon doesn't want to leave the host. It doesn't want to have to float around in dry places. Many times, and then we get 29, we get a description of what the demonic activity in this man's life is. Many time it had seized him, and though he was chained, hand and foot, and kept under guard, he had broken his chains and had been driven by the demon into solitary places. So a couple key things. The word seized there literally means to take control of or to dominate. That's what that verb means. So it literally means that the demon went into the mortal human being and physically took over control of his body. That's what that means. What does that look like? Well, the first thing is supernatural strength. I don't know about you, but I've never seen someone chained with iron chains, hand and foot, just snap them like the Hulk. If you're asking, does that happen today? 100% it still does. I have personally witnessed it with my own eyes. A demon manifest in a human being, and then that human being be able to be capable of something that the average human being cannot do. Absolutely seen it. But then what's interesting is, and somebody might say, oh, well, that's all it takes to be a superhero. Like, I might do that. Then look at the last part of verse 29. Not only when this demon manifests inside this human being, does it control his voice? Does it speak through him? Does it reveal things that his mental knowledge could not have known? Does it also augments his physical strength and then drives him to be alone? Drives him into solitary places. Why? Because then there's no one to rescue the host from the demon. And that's the sad state of many people who are afflicted. Then in verse 30, Jesus asked him, what is your name? So now who do you think Jesus is talking to? Right. Jesus is talking to who started talking to him, which is the demon inside the human. He asked him, what is your name? Legion, he replied, because many demons had gone into him. Now, technically, Legion means 6,000. In this context, I think Luke is using it hyperbolically to just mean lotta, lotta. I don't think there's exactly 6,000 demons inside this human being at this moment. But I do want to point out that for this man to be possessed by a group of demons is a significant spiritual problem. Can we just say that? Guy's got some significant spiritual baggage. And 31, and they begged Jesus repeatedly not to order them to go into the abyss. Those of you who were here when we studied Revelation, right? In the book of Revelation, the abyss comes up again. And it's the demonic prison to be held until judgment. Generally thought to be at the bottom of the ocean, but since it's a spiritual prison, it doesn't need a physical location. However, in the book of Revelation, we do see those demonic locust creatures. If you missed Revelation, it's going to sound like a weird sentence. So the demonic locust creatures that come out of the ocean, right? Go back and read Revelation, and you'll see it. So again, this is something the human being cannot know. The human being can't know that there's a demonic prison. The human being can't know that demons can be held there until final judgment by the authority of God. The human can't know that, but the demon can totally know that. Because some of his fellow fallen angels are being held there right now. Revelation says there's a group of angels who are held in that prison who aren't even allowed out when Satan's allowed out. They stay there until judgment day. So they know full well Jesus has the authority to confine them into that prison until the judgment. And they're begging him, don't send us, don't send us, don't send us there. The only reason they would beg Jesus not to send him there is if he had the power to. Does that make sense? 31, 32. A large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside. I got to be honest, to me, I think people when they preach this passage, they make too much out of the pigs. Yes, pig would be an unclean animal in a Jewish context. But remember the geography, right? We went from the snowman to the barbell to the Greek area. So it doesn't matter over here, right? It doesn't matter if they're pigs in a Greek area because it's just another animal. We're just going to slaughter it and eat pork and bacon, which, whoo, that's a good day. So people want to make a lot out of the pigs. I think Luke is just describing that there is, now I think the pigs are significant for a totally different reason. So I don't think the idea that a pig is an unclean animal has a whole lot to do with it, although there's a plurality of unclean animal, unclean spirit, sure, I'll give you that. And so there's a herd of animals that happen to be pigs on a hillside. So the demons begged Jesus to let them go into the pigs instead of go to the abyss. So now there's a negotiation with new tomb dude and the son of God and the demons who are inside this guy. And they're saying, Jesus, please, please, please, we don't want to go to the abyss. The pigs, we'll take the pigs. Can I just go to the pigs, but not to the prison? Right, that's what they're ultimately saying. And then in 32, while Anthony and I are still sitting on the shore eating our jerky, by the way, all of this conversation is taking place. They give, Jesus gives them permission to enter the herd of pigs that are on the hillside. 33, the demons come out of the man, went into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank and into the lake and was drowned. To me, 33 is a little ironic, considering in the first century, they thought that the demonic prison was at the bottom of the ocean, and the demons enter the pigs, and what's the first thing they do? Jump for the body of water. So to me, it's a little ironic whether Luke intended that irony or whether I'm just seeing it because I'm a little over creative. I could get it. But here's why 33 is important, and this is why I think the pigs are important. I don't think it's important because they're pigs. I think it's important because they're visible. If there are no pigs and there's just Tomb Dude and Jesus, and Tomb Dude is speaking, and I will tell you because I have heard it, when a demon chooses to speak through a human vocal cord, it's a different voice. It's literally a different sound coming out of a mortal human body. And as a general rule, my wife and I, we don't watch any movie that involves demonic possession because to be perfectly honest with you, when you've seen it in real life, watching it glorified in a movie is horrendously disgusting. When I've seen it in real life, I don't need to see it on a screen. But one thing that the movies tend to get right is when a demon chooses to speak through a mortal human body that it's in, the voice literally sounds different. And so just put that one in your notebook so when you come across it, you hear it, you know the sound. It's a horrible, evil, ugly, disgusting, non-God-glorifying sound. And if there had been no pigs, when Jesus commands all of these demons to come out of Tomb Guy, how do the witnesses know it happened? Right? You and I can't see spiritual entities unless either God gives an instruction for an angel to appear and then of course they're capable of it or unless a demon chooses to appear for some reason, they're capable of it. But as a general rule, and I've got to be honest with you, I'm not interested in having that like spiritual site where you walk around and see everybody's demons all the time. That is not a gift that I want. But if there were no herd of pigs, there would be no evidence of healing. What the pigs represent, in my opinion, is not the fact that they are unclean animals, although it's funny that the unclean spirit goes into the unclean animals. Sure. What the pigs represent to the onlookers, to Anthony and I sitting on the beach, eating our jerky, watching the story play out, the pigs represent the evidence that Jesus healed the man. Without the pigs, now I could argue, you know what Alex, when he's dressed and in his right mind and sitting, that's all additional evidence. But the instantaneous momentary evidence of Christ's authority over the demon, or demons, is the pigs. When he says, come out of the man, you can go into pigs. When he says, come out, and the demons automatically go over into the pigs, and then the pigs do something wildly crazy and rush off the hillside, no onlooker would question the authority of the Son of God. Right? So to me, that's why the pigs are important, is in verse 33, they are the instantaneous evidence of the authority of God. 34. When those tending the pigs, there's some more onlookers, right? So, Anthony and I are taking a break from fishing, but you know, Dan and John and Bill, you guys are the ones hurting the pigs. You're having a bad day at work. Right? All of the pigs that you were just trying to hurt and keep track of, when they saw this, they ran off. They ran off and reported this, meaning all the just inspired, into the town and countryside. And you would think that that would be a good thing. You would think that somebody witnessing the evidential power of the Son of God to bring freedom would be a good thing. Except, that's not the way the story plays out. 35. And the people went out to see what had happened. When they came to Jesus, they found the man from whom the demons had gone out, sitting at Jesus' feet, dressed, thank you Jesus, and in his right mind, and they were afraid. Their response to Christ's authority and the freedom that this man had been granted is not celebration. It's fear. Those who had seen it told the people how the demon possessed man had been cured. That's 36. And then in 37, all the people of the region of the Gerasene asked Jesus to leave them because they were overcome with fear. And then quite possibly, I think, the most surprising verse is the last sentence of verse 37. So he got in the boat and left. Jesus travels all the way across the Sea of Galilee to do ministry, ministers to one dude. And everybody else says, I gave it the office. We're good. Yeah, we're good. Maybe you should go home. We don't really want you here. And Jesus says, OK, and leaves. And if that, I got to be honest, if that were the end of the story, I think I'd be a little irritated. And then thankfully, we get 38 and 39. The man from whom was healed, he begged to go with Jesus. So a man who was the nude tomb dude is now dressed, sitting at Jesus feet, submitting not only to his authority, but to his teaching and now desires to be a follower of Jesus. That in and of itself is radical transformation. And Jesus tells him no. And then 39, he says, return home and tell much how God has done for you. So the man went away and told all over the town what Jesus had done for him. So when the man gets to town to tell his story, the town has already heard the first story from Dan and from Bill about the pigs. Now the man goes to town and he tells his story about the Savior. And this is usually where, again, if this was a regular sermon series, I would I would focus in on the Gatterian demoniac falling at Jesus feet, begging and pleading with him. Kind of life transformation and freedom. And then we would go to an altar call and everybody would get saved all over again. It'd be great. But that's not the character in the story that I want you to identify with. So now let's I'm not going to reread it, but let's just talk about the story. I want you to be Jesus. You're traveling with your disciples, getting ready to go do ministry. And all of a sudden all up walks nude tomb dude. I cannot read this story and not think of that name from now on. And everybody else had to be distracted. He had to be distracting. He had to be distracting. Number one, he's naked and that would be weird. But he's filled with demons. He's got shackles on his hands and feet. He had been chained and he just snaps them. So now you've got naked guy. You've got weird shackles. You've got hair that must smell like death. And Jesus isn't distracted by any of the symptoms. And Jesus looks at the man and now the man falls at his feet and the man cries out to him. Oh, and then there's that sound. That doesn't sound like a human voice. I know what that is. And Jesus and ultimately if we were to put the story in chronological order, Jesus tells the demons that they have to come out. And that's when they start talking to him who are don't torture me. Don't send me to the abyss. So the conversation Jesus looked past the symptoms and he saw the real spiritual root of this man's life issues. And then he heals him. And that enough would be a super awesome thing to learn. But that's not where the story stops. And for all of you who are raised in the Christian Church, the next thing I'm about to say is going to really get under your skin. Not only is Jesus not distracted by the symptoms, not only does Jesus address the spiritual root, Jesus doesn't press the issue when the bystanders ask him to leave. That one to me stings a little bit. And the number of times as growing up as an American Christian, they've been taught you got to go share your faith, you got to go preach the gospel, you got to take it to the people, the number of street preachers who preach at people who aren't even listening. And Jesus was like, okay, and just left. Jesus did not push himself on anyone who didn't approach him in this story. The Gadarean demoniac comes and falls at his feet. Who are you son of the most high God? He immediately sees this dude's spiritual problem and he heals him. But then Jesus doesn't press the issue with the entire rest of the town. He lets them send him away. That's, I mean, I have to be honest. I've never heard somebody teach that as an evangelism strategy. Right? What are we taught? I mean, listen, all the years of apologetics training I've taught, I've taught how to win arguments. And I have to tell my children all the time, the purpose of apologetics is not winning argument. Michael Joel, the purpose of apologetics is not winning arguments, it is winning, yes, hearts. All of the college training I have, and if somebody said, yeah, I'm done with this conversation, if I was going to be like Jesus, I'd walk away. If I was going to be like Bill, I would double down and just keep fighting. But Jesus doesn't do that. Now, I also have to say, Jesus doesn't leave the town without someone else to do the job. And that's the fourth thing that I want you to see Jesus is. Not only is Jesus not distracted by the symptoms, Jesus addresses the spiritual root, Jesus doesn't press himself on the bystanders, Jesus left someone else to finish the work. Jesus did the thing that nobody else could do, which was heal the man who everybody else knew as the nude tomb dude. And then that guy becomes the missionary. And so the work is still done. That one's the big challenge for me. Will, am I willing when somebody says, yeah, yeah, I've heard about the whole Jesus thing, I don't want to do that. Okay, that's cool. And trust that God's going to send someone else to finish the work. Because why? Because it's his work. It's not my work. It's his church. It's not my church. You're his sheep. You're not my sheep. When I say this is my church, it doesn't mean that I own it. It means that I am responsible for it. There's a difference, right? When I walk in this building, I don't own it. He does. He's the boss. I'm the middle management. It's his work. And if we were just to simply get the fact that sometimes sharing the gospel means walking away, I think we would make a much bigger impact, especially in the way our American culture is right now. People bait you into a fight so that they can discount what you have to say because you don't say it lovingly. Don't let yourself get baited. Don't let somebody bait you into being offended. Jesus literally just rocked this dude's world and cast multiple demons out of his life. And then everybody else was like, I don't need that. We're good. How about you just leave? Like, I mean, Anthony, you and I are sitting on the shore. We just finished up our jerky. I'm like, here, hand me the goat milk for a second. I got to see this. Like, how do you do that? How do the crowd of people, Dan and Bill, this one's on y'all, why did you send Jesus away? Because the townspeople were afraid. Their fear overtook their faith. So Jesus pressing into them would actually push them further into fear, not draw them into faith. So Jesus does the best strategy. He backs away, takes the fear element off, and he leaves the dude to tell his story. This is what Jesus did for me. It's almost like he leaves a coat. You know the other reason they can't get rid of this guy? He's from there. He's the native. Jesus saves one dude and says, you're it. Go get him. But his one story, I guarantee you, everybody in the town heard this guy's story. Because when Bill and Dan had to go home and explain to their wives why they now got to go find a new flock to take care of, because their job just ran off down a cliff. Right? Jesus did impact an entire community, but he did it by sending someone else. That's who we need to be. So how do we love like Jesus? I titled this particular sermon, Discern Like Jesus. You've got to read the situation like Jesus. So here's your takeaway. As I ask the worship team to come up, ushers to get ready. Here's how we bring this one in for a landing. Like Jesus, we must discern the difference between the symptoms and the possible spiritual roots of problems in this life. And here it is. We must also be ready to walk away from those who do not want to hear and let someone else do the work. If we are going to be a people of God, a church, who discerns and prepares and deploys the gospel like Jesus, sometimes that means be ready to walk away. Don't keep pressing the issue, because pressing the issue could make matters worse, not better.