Good morning, welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being a part of our worship. Whether you are here in our sanctuary with us this morning or whether you are joining us online, thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family. Now here at Catalyst, we're about one thing, and that is loving people to life change in Christ. So if you're here this morning, we love you, but I want to love you enough and be truthful and honest with you. I hope that you will not be the same tomorrow that you are today. That doesn't mean I don't love who you are today, but hopefully each day we become more like Christ. We have more to love about one another as the days go by. One of the things that helps us to become more like Christ is studying his word together. So that's what we're going to do next. As we continue, you know, we worship in song, we worship in prayer, we worship in the word, we worship in giving from beginning to end. Everything we do is worship. Worship is not just music, but this morning we're going to continue our series Love Like Jesus, if you have your Bibles, I'm going to invite you to turn or tap with me to the Gospel of Luke chapter 6. The Gospel of Luke chapter 6, we're only going to look at the first 11 verses. I titled this morning's sermon to respond like Jesus. So let me give you the key thought that strings all of these sermons together. The love of Jesus leaves behind lessons to learn and an example to follow. I think anytime that we are looking at the person of Jesus, there's always something to be learned and there's always an example to follow. Now, while you are finishing turning to Luke chapter 6, let's review the big Bible story to see how we get to where we're at this morning. So Genesis 1, 1, in the beginning, God creates the heavens and the earth, right? He makes everything into the garden at Eden. He places Adam and Eve. Sin happens. They're ejected from the garden. Humanity begins to flourish and grow and get into a lot of sin. God sends a flood and to rescue humanity sends a man named Noah. Noah built a really big boat named the Ark. After the Ark, humanity repopulates. Genesis 12, God chooses a very special man. He makes a covenant with him. He changes his name and his new name is Abraham. He makes a promise, I'm going to be your God. You're going to be my people. Your descendants will be as numerous as the stars in the sky, the sands on the seashore. Through you, I will bless the whole world. And then later he says, you will finally now have a son. Abraham's son of promise is named Isaac. Isaac then has another conversation with God. The covenant is repeated. Isaac's son of promise is named Jacob. Jacob then has 12 sons. The older 11 send their younger brother Joseph into slavery and that ends the book of Genesis. There's a lot that happens just in Genesis. Then we get to Exodus. God's people have been in slavery for 400 years under Egyptian task masters. They cry out for a redeemer. God hears their prayer, finds a shepherd who used to be Egyptian, who now lives in a place called Midian, has a conversation with him in front of like a burning bush and sends them a deliverer named Moses, whose brother is named Aaron, whose sister is named Miriam. Then as Moses and Aaron are performing these amazing miracles in Egypt, God ultimately leads his children out. They cross over the Red Sea on dry ground. Miriam is leading all of the women of Israel in worshiping the Lord. And it would be great if they went right to where God sent them in the promised land. But we have an obedience problem. How many years do they wander in the wilderness? 40. After that generation dies off, God raises up a new man to lead his people. His name starts with a J. His name is Joshua. Joshua leads them into the promised land. Also the Jordan River parts just like the Red Sea did. They walk on dry land into the entire nation. Then they begin to take the land. But they still have sin problems. They don't fully move everybody else out. And so that gives us to the book of Judges where everybody does what is right in their own eyes. Then ultimately, the people of Israel get jealous of all the kingdoms around them. And what is it that Israel wants like all the other people have? They want a king. Who was supposed to be Israel's king? God. God is supposed to be Israel's king. They disobey. They ask for human kings. Who's the first human king of the united monarchy of Israel? Saul followed by David, followed by Solomon, followed by civil war. And then after that civil war, after Solomon, they're two separate nations. The nation of Israel and the nation of Judah. And they still can't obey God. They still can't follow the rules. And God says, listen, Jerry, if you can't follow the rules, I'm gonna have to put you in a timeout. And so God sends in a foreign nation to take the nation of Israel away into captivity. What nation does he send first? Assyria. Assyria conquers Israel, carries them away. But then after that, Assyria falls to Babylon. Babylon comes down conquers Judah, carries Judah away into captivity. And then ultimately Babylon falls to Persia. So Assyria, Babylon, Persia. That's the big backstory for the whole back half of the Old Testament. During captivity, there's the book of Daniel. There's the book of Esther. Then the Persian king Cyrus allows everybody to go home. And now all of a sudden, there's Nehemiah. There's Ezra. There's Hezekiah. They're rebuilding the temple. They're rebuilding the kingdom. And then finally, we make it to Malachi. And there's a promise. I'm gonna send you a messiah. And you'll know it's him because before the messiah, I'm gonna send you a forerunner or a redeemer who's gonna let you know this is my guy. And how many years of silence between Malachi and Matthew? 400 years. God doesn't say anything to his people. There's no scripture. There's no prophets. There's no new words from God. And then after 400 years, God breaks the silence. He sends an angelic messenger into the temple to speak to a priest who's on duty ministering before the Lord. And that angel delivered... Okay, number one, what's the angel's name? Anybody else? Starts with a G. Gabriel. Yep. Gabriel shows up speaking to... What's the gentleman's name? Zechariah. He's serving... What is Zechariah's special son's name? John the Baptist. And then God sends a second angel to a young woman who's unmarried whose name is Mary. And he says, you are gonna have the one, the child. And Mary's son's name is Jesus. Everybody's got to get that one right. Okay, so Mary's son's name is Jesus. That's right. Mary has Jesus. That's the Christmas, the Nativity story. We celebrate that at Christmas. Mary has the son, Joseph the carpenter. Mary's her anyway because he also gets an angelic message. Then Jesus is born and there's nothing in the scripture about Jesus's life. From the time of his birth, then shortly thereafter the Magi come and visit and they give gifts. Then we fast forward to age 12 where he's at the temple about his father's business. Then we fast forward to age 30. He gets baptized by his super cool cousin John the Baptist. And John the Baptist says, I must decrease so that he may increase. And then Jesus starts his earthly ministry. And that's where we're at in the story. It's so important that we do that every week because if you learn nothing else from me as a pastor, please learn that even though we study the Bible as one book, it is 66 different books that weave this wonderful story of God's love for an imperfect and failing people. But now we jump into the story. Jesus is now in his earthly ministry. He is an adult. He has been baptized by his cousin John the Baptist. He's been filled with the Spirit. He goes in the wilderness for 40 days. He boxes with Satan. He uses scripture. He defeats Satan. And now he begins to call his disciples and he begins to do ministry. And at a certain point, Jesus begins to ruffle the feathers of the religious establishment. Because keep in mind, if you follow the story and see now here I can tell you something about the Pharisees that maybe you don't know because we've talked about the story. Rewind back just the big Bible story. Just take the rewind button back to when they come home, right? So they live on their own for a while and then they get free from the Hasmoneans, right? The Seleucid dynasty. We talked about all of that. The Seleucid dynasty. Then they're conquered by Rome. And then there's sort of a split in the religious hierarchy of Israel. There are the Pharisees who are very theologically conservative. Believe it or not, Jesus actually has more in common with the Pharisees when it comes to scripture and theology than he does the Sadducees. See the Sadducees wanted to get along with Rome. So they only believe the first five books of the Bible, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. Just checking. See you never know when I'm gonna throw a pop quiz. You gotta pay attention. The Sadducees only believe in the first five books of the Old Testament. The Sadducees also do not believe in a resurrection. And so theologically, Jesus is way more in line with the Pharisees. The Pharisees believe all 39 books of the Old Testament. What they would call the Hebrew Bible, we call the Old Testament. They believe that they're all inspired. They believe in a resurrection. They believe in following the law. They believe in living in a way that pleases God. The problem is, is they overextend that desire to be religiously pure. And we still make the same mistake today. I mean you see it all the time online. People get their you know their pants in a twist about this religious idea or that religious idea. And then they start extending beyond what scripture says. So in Jesus's day, the Pharisees were so passionate about living and serving the law of God that they invented their own law. They called it the hedge around the law. And they're like, you know what? The scriptures say we should never work on the Sabbath. So what they do is they invent a lot of things about what is the definition of work. Well scripture doesn't say that. The Pharisees said that. That's religious tradition, not scripture. Okay? So now that hopefully everybody's learned something, now I'm going to upset everybody. So if anybody leaves, you at least learn something new. We still make the same mistake today. We read scripture. We learn what scripture says. And then we start creating our little spin on it. And our spin this way. And our spin that way. Can anybody just think back to like a month ago when everybody was freaking out about the eclipse? And half the messages I got during the two weeks leading up to the eclipse were, pastor, oh my god, can you please make sense of this crazy person? And I mean there was everything from maps to math to like Hebrew and Greek root words that somehow had something to do with the path of the moon. Like it got really weird. Why? Because people are trying to take scripture and apply it in their life without applying their life to scripture. They're still applying scripture to their life. And so we have to be very careful. And I selected this morning's text basically because I like it when Jesus has attitude. But in our story this morning, Jesus is approached by the Pharisees who are the religious cultural leaders of his day. And he is questioned about why he is not as religious as they are. So, Luke chapter 6, I'm going to read the first 11 verses. Then we're going to go back. We're going to walk through it. We're going to break it down. So here we go. Luke chapter 6 beginning in verse 1. One Sabbath, Jesus was going through the grain fields. And his disciples began to pick some heads of grain and rub them in their hands and eat the kernels. Some of the Pharisees asked, why are you doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath? Jesus answered them. Have you never read what David did when he and his companions were hungry? He entered the house of God and taking the consecrated bread, he ate what was lawful only for priests to eat. And he also gave to some of his companions. Then Jesus said to them, the son of man is Lord of the Sabbath. Verse 6, on another Sabbath, he went into the synagogue and was teaching and a man was there whose right hand was shriveled. The Pharisees and the teachers of the law were looking for a reason to accuse Jesus. So they watched him closely to see if he would heal on the Sabbath. But Jesus knew what they were thinking and said to the man with the shriveled hand, get up, stand over here in front of everyone. Excuse me, stand in front of everyone. So he got up and stood there. Then Jesus said to him, I ask you, which is lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or destroy it? He looked around at them all and then he said to the man, stretch out your hand. He did so and his hand was completely restored. But the Pharisees and teachers of the law were furious and they began to discuss with one another what they might do to Jesus. So let's rewind back to verse 1 and let's set the stage here. So verse 1 of chapter 6 opens one Sabbath. Notice the detail that Luke gives and the details that he leaves out. Luke is a very educated author. What was Luke's occupation? He's a physician, a doctor. He was an educated person. It's why Luke's writing and Paul's writing are some of the most educated Koine Greek in all of the Greek New Testament. One Sabbath, Jesus is going through the grain fields. The only chronological evidence that he was going through was the Sabbath. So he's going through the grain fields. The only chronological marker that we get is the action that takes place here with Jesus and the disciples and the field of grain happens on a Sabbath. Now, why is that important? Because first century Jews live according to the Old Testament law. And what is it that they're not allowed to do on the Sabbath? Work. Now, is what's happening here work? That's the primary part of the discussion we're about to have. But the setting tells us what we need to know about the discussion, which was this action happens on a Sabbath and then Luke tells us what Jesus and his disciples do. They are walking through the grain fields and his disciples began to pick some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands and eating the kernels. So the first thing you need to understand about these 11 verses is Sabbath is the setting. When you see it again, we get down to verse 7, verse 8 on another Sabbath. Luke has put these 2 Sabbath stories together because Sabbath is the setting for what he's trying to teach us about Jesus. Also, if those of you who like taking notes, if you're looking for the Old Testament law that actually allows the action that Jesus and his disciples do, write down Deuteronomy chapter 23 verses 24 and 25. If you go back to that passage in Deuteronomy 23, what you're going to see is the law specifically told people who owned fields where they grew grain to allow passersby to just grab a few kernels and eat them. You were not supposed to reap the corners and the edges of your field. You were supposed to leave them for your countrymen. So if somebody was walking by and they had no food and they were hungry, they could grab a couple of kernels and they could eat them. Now, the passersby are not allowed to use any form of equipment or sickle or blade to harvest. They're just simply allowed to use their hand to pull a couple kernels. Why do they rub them in their hand? Because they're separating the kernel from the chaff. So one could argue this is an action, but this is an action that's told in the law to be there. So it's interesting that the Pharisees are picking something that Jesus has got background for in Deuteronomy. So 23, 24, 25, that's where that is. This rubbing of the hands is what the Pharisees are claiming is work. But why did they do this? Because they wanted to eat. They were hungry. And so the setting on the Sabbath is the Pharisees in verse two, they come to Jesus and they say, Why are you doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath? Now, what's interesting here is in verse one, Jesus is going through the grain field and his disciples began to pick some of the heads of grain. So verse one does not explicitly say that Jesus does this action. Although one could say if Jesus were there, there's nothing that says he didn't do it. But notice that the function of the verb in verse one, the primary person is disciples did this. In verse two, why are you doing this? So you got two choices here. Either A, Jesus is answering for the actions of his disciples, which would be a very normal first century rabbi teacher thing to do. Jesus is answering for his followers. Why are you allowing your followers to do this? Or B, Jesus is straight up grubbing with his disciples and he's answering for himself. Either way, the word you in verse two is plural. The Pharisees are asking about the group, not Jesus himself. And you know that because in verse one it said the disciples are the ones doing this action. So also interesting in verse two, it says some of the Pharisees, not all of the Pharisees. Why? Because we already know, granted we get the advantage of reading scripture in hindsight, right? There are named Pharisees in the New Testament who sit at Jesus's feet and who learn from him. Two Pharisees in particular get the body of Jesus from Pontius Pilate after the crucifixion. So Luke is eluding to here that not all the Pharisees are questioning Jesus and looking to trap him, but some, in verse two, some of them absolutely are. And so they set up a question. Why are you as a group, why are you as a group doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath? So now here's the next question. Is the action in question truly a violation of scripture? No, it's not. It's an interpretation of scripture. It's an interpretation that they hold to because they have restricted or they have redefined what work is. And that's why I wanted to give you that Deuteronomy passage. They are doing something that scripture allows. But the Pharisees, see, when you change definitions, now all of a sudden things get a little hinky. And so the, now the Pharisees are saying, why are you doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath? And they've determined for themselves that this action that they don't like is what shouldn't be done. This is the problem, in my opinion. And since it's my sermon, I get to add my opinions to the text. Here's the problem. You have a group of people who claim to represent God, who are doing their best to be religiously pure, to represent obedience to God and following the law. But their desire for religiosity has pushed them beyond the bounds of what scripture actually says. And this is the situation that Jesus finds himself in. Okay, everybody fasten your seatbelts. I'm going to upset half of you. And I'm going to make the other half of you really happy. We do this all the time today. All the time. Do you know the number one thing that I get asked about as a pastor? Tattoos. Number one thing, you want to, it's truth, truth, truth, truth. The number one thing I get asked, pastor, can I get a tattoo? Is God going to send me to hell because I got ink? I'm like, well, number one, my daughter's got some really slamming tattoos. So if everybody goes to hell for that. But here's the problem. Does scripture reference marking your bodies? Absolutely does. We can go to the book of Exodus, Leviticus. I can look it up. I can unpack. But there's a leap that's made when we go to the passage that says, do not mark your bodies in relation to the dead, which is the rest of that verse. Do not mark your bodies in relation to the dead. And then we take that and we automatically apply it to artistic tattoos that we have today. The question that nobody asks, which I think is the most important question, are the artistic style tattoos that we have in our culture today completely analogous to the ancient ancestor worship tattoos that existed in 400 or 500 BC Canaan? I don't think so. I mean, I'll just tell you, I don't. If you want to make the argument that ancestor worship, whether it was ancient Canaanite ancestor worship or ancient Chinese ancestor worship, is the same as somebody getting like a little rosebud tattoo on their wrist. I don't see it. I don't see the analogy. And that's the application. And I guarantee you, I get asked this question like almost every month. Somebody asks me that. Why? Because we've made it a part of the American religious culture that tattoos are evil or wrong or bad or whatever. I'm literally looking at a group of people and I can like literally go, yep, yep, I can see the number of people in here who I know who have tattoos. I'll just ask you a simple question. Are you going to be so hard-line in taking a text way out of scriptural context, way out of historical context, that you're unwilling to worship with the half of the people sitting in this room who I personally know have ink? Really? The unity of body of Christ doesn't require us to at least investigate and make sure that when you pull a random verse that was given literally a few thousand years ago, that we have the right historical context. Then we make the same exact mistake the Pharisees make here. They took something and they redefined the term. Now, for those of you who are still on the tattoos or evil part, I hate needles. Okay? I'm definitely afraid of needles. I shake anytime I have to give blood or anytime I have to go to the dentist. I have wanted a tattoo for like 30 years. My only problem is A, I'm super afraid of needles and B, I can't think of anything outside of Jesus and my wife and children that I love enough to get tattooed on my body. And since I don't have to get a tattoo to keep Jesus, my wife or my kids, it's just not necessary. But on that specific issue, since I decided to make this the soapbox, make sure when we apply scripture and we tell people what's good and what's bad, that we've done a good due diligence of studying the passage first. Because here the Pharisees in verse two say, why are you doing what is unlawful? They are accusing Jesus and the disciples of violating scripture in their interpretation. The first question I would always ask somebody is have you looked at every interpretation of an issue before you decided that yours is right? This is one thing I will say like Tyler, when you go to Bible college and you have to look at all the different views that are out there of any particular issue, right? Whether it's end times issues or whether it's Holy Spirit issues or whether it's women in the church issues or whether it's the definition of some super big theological term, right? Like when you go and you study at the college level, they require you to learn every single view. And that gives you the broad spectrum of, well, there's a scale, right? I know like Claudia, sometimes we have to say there's a scale of views here. You can go conservative this way, you can go a little less conservative this way. A lot of times I'm the moderates and I go right down the middle because I think both sides are a little kooky. And so we're going to go this way. This is something where the Pharisees decide for themselves what's unlawful and lawful. But then they use scripture to hold everyone else accountable to their own interpretations. This is dangerous because let, but not only is it dangerous, not only does it happen today, but here's here's the note that I think is super important. Religious teachers have a responsibility to clarify the difference between the clear teaching of scripture and their own interpretation or application of it. And I try my best to do that for you when we're talking about the text versus this is what I think is the most appropriate view of the text. And then there are other views and I'll be honest with you, there's a view over here, there's a view over here, there's a view over here. But I can't hold all three views in tension at the same time. So I have to pick one. The Pharisees are ignoring that little piece of wisdom. So let's be very careful when we talk to others about scripture to be able to clarify the difference between our own interpretations and what the text says. Verse three, Jesus answered, have you not read? So Jesus, again, answers with scripture. When he was in the, when he was in the wilderness, he was being tempted by the devil. Did Jesus have the authority as the son of God to tell Satan to pack sand? Yes. Did he? No. That's it. I mean, that's a passage for another day. That's like a whole other sermon before I come back to this one. Jesus did not use the divine authority of the son of God, even though he was, even though he was fully capable of telling Satan to pack sand. He answered Satan with scripture. Here, the Pharisees question him about his obedience to the devil. I mean, is there anybody else? This is literally the lion, the witch and the wardrobe moment, right? Jesus could have just looked at the Pharisees like, dude, don't quit the old magic to me. I was there when it was written. I'm literally the living word of God. The word became flesh, bro. This is me. Like they're quoting something to him that he definitely knows way better than they do. And then he answers them not in his own divine son of God authority. He answers them with the authority scripture. He says, have you not read? When David and his companions were hungry. If you want to go look up this again, those of you like notes, the story that Jesus is referencing is in first Samuel chapter 21 verses one through six. First Samuel chapter 21 verses one through six. I will briefly give you what it is. David is on the run from King Saul. He happens to pass by a city where there is a priest and the tabernacle. And there is bread that is placed on the altar of God in the tabernacle. And they replace the bread. When the bread gets replaced and it comes down out of the place that it's placed in, only the priests are supposed to eat it. So it's like special church bread. We'll call it that. Right? It's church bread that only priests of God are supposed to eat. David goes up to the priest who's there and he said, listen, I'm on the run. Dude, you got a snack? I mean like traveling and running from Saul. This is the international bill version. Traveling and running from Saul is really, I need a snack. What do you got? And the priest recognizes who David is. This is after David defeats Goliath. In fact, the sword of Goliath is at the tabernacle when he's there with the bread. And he's running from Saul and the priest goes in and he goes, yeah, here. This is the best I have for you. You can take it. The priest uses what was available to feed a hungry man. That hungry man also happens to be God's chosen and anointed servant, but Saul's still chasing around. At this point, David doesn't have a weapon either. So he turns to the priest and he goes, dude, what do you got? I mean, I just, I need something to defend myself. Saul's coming for my life. And the priest goes, you remember the sword you took off Goliath? He goes, that's still sitting here. You want it? And literally the priest goes inside. He gets Goliath's actual sword that David used to cut the head off of Goliath. And he gives it to David and David leaves. I'd love to tell you that the story ended well. Saul and his soldiers come to the tabernacle and they kill all of the priests who were working that day. Because he's trying to hunt down David. But in this moment, Jesus is referring, and it's just very interesting for Jesus to refer to David. Because there's so many, there's so many parallels here. Jesus is being questioned by an illegitimate religious figure. David is being chased by an illegitimate king. David is anointed the new head of Israel, which is why, in my opinion, the David and Goliath story has nothing to do with facing Goliath. It was showing that David is greater than Saul. Saul was, if you read back what the king is supposed to be for Israel, when Saul was anointed, the king is supposed to go to battle for his people. Saul doesn't. Saul was bigger and taller than all of the other Israelites. He was likely the same size as Goliath and he gives up the fight because he tries to get out of it by giving away money. All this illegitimate stuff. And here's David, who's just a shepherd who worships God, who wants to be his people. And Saul keeps chasing him in the same way that the Pharisees are chasing Jesus. There's a whole lot of these parallels here. And in verse four, the way Luke says it, he goes, he entered the house of God and taking the consecrated bread. If you read the passage in 1 Samuel, it doesn't show specifically that David entered the temple, but that the priest went into the temple on David's behalf and brought him out the bread. So does that mean it's in direct conflict? No, because technically the priest was going for David, so he's still accomplishing the same mission. And then he gives them the bread that's supposed to be only lawful for the priests to eat. A himelech, by the way, is the name of the priest. He gives him the very bread that's meant for himself. A himelech gives David his own food. And what is in essence, what does he give David? A himelech, the priest, gives David the bread of life because at that point David is starving. Then Jesus says to the Pharisees, the ones who are questioning him, telling him, hey man, you are way out of line. Why are you doing what's illegal? He says this, the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. Now remember verse 1, Sabbath is the setting. And again in verse 6, you're going to see on another Sabbath. So here, really buried in here in verse 5, this is the primary lesson Luke is trying to teach us. He's showing us a Sabbath story, and in a minute we're going to get another Sabbath story that are both to teach the same thing. The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. So let's break this down. Who is the Son of Man? Jesus. What does the term Son of Man refer to? It's a messianic term. So those who like notes, Daniel chapter 7 verse 13, first time that the term Son of Man is used. It refers to the promised Messiah of Israel. It also can refer to the fact that as the Son of Man and the Son of God, Jesus is fully man and fully God. I don't mind that, but I don't think when Jesus says this here in Luke that he's referencing the Hippostatic Union. That's a theological concept that we developed a few hundred years after the resurrection of Jesus. What he's saying is I'm the guy. I'm the guy who was promised. Remember when we talked our way through Malachi. I'm the guy who was promised for you. And the guy who was promised for you is Lord of the Sabbath. Now here's an interesting question. Why is Jesus Lord of the Sabbath? You get two choices. I'm not going to tell you that either one is wrong, but I'm going to tell you that I like one more than the other. So there's two possible reasons that Jesus was promised. So there's two possible reasons that Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath. Number one, who gave the law to Moses? God did. So that makes all the law God's law, right? So Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath because he is the divine God who gave the law in the first place. So there's a reason why that Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath. There's a problem with that though, in my opinion. And that is the law is not the first time Sabbath is mentioned in scripture, right? If Jesus were merely Lord of the Sabbath because the law brought in Sabbath, then when Jesus says I have fulfilled the law, Sabbath can go away, which is a contemporary view of Sabbath thing. However, most of you who know me know that that's not my view. My family's Sabbath every single week because where's the first time Sabbath is mentioned in scripture? Genesis, creation week. Why? And God rested on the seventh day. Now, there's still a Lord command presence here. God is the one setting in motion the events of creation week, and it is God himself who rests on the final day. So simple question. Did God rest because he was tired? No. Did God rest because of his literally unexhaustible energy he ran out of energy? No. So then is God's resting a necessary thing or a choice? It's a choice. So now let's follow it. Why does God choose to rest? If he is inexhaustible, why does he choose to rest? Example. God rested on the seventh day not because he needed a recharge. God did not need a monster. God did not need a Red Bull. He needed to give us an example for the world we were created into, which also makes him Lord of the Sabbath. Because the beginning of John tells me that nothing was made that wasn't made through Jesus. Right? So you have all three members of the Trinity involved in creation week. Small plug. When you get to VBS this year, we're spending an entire week defending creation. Five nights. We're going to do everything from age of the earth to evolution to biopsy. We're going to tell you more about that in the lobby later. But since I'm on creation week, I might as well mention it. Why is Jesus Lord of the Sabbath? My view, Jesus is Lord because he created everything, including the Sabbath. I don't need the law to make Jesus Lord of the Sabbath when he is the Lord of creation and Sabbath is a creation level installation. Now, that's largely because I think Sabbath thing still applies to New Testament. Christians today and that's a really big debatable issue and I'm not going to require you to agree with me. You can totally go with the law version of it. And since he's the lawgiver, he's still Lord of the Sabbath. But either way, you can't take something that Jesus is Lord of and buckle him with it. Why? Because he's literally Lord of the Sabbath. Whether you go with the Genesis view that he created the Sabbath or you go with the law of you, you can't take that. Either way, it is his authority by which the Sabbath is installed. The Pharisees can't take the law and reapply it to the God who made the law. Now, maybe they don't realize who they're talking to, but that's what they're doing. They're trying to use the law to shoehorn the authority that the law comes from. Why? So Jesus will live their way. Like that's the ultimate goal. The Pharisees are trying to make Jesus Lord of the Sabbath. Not actually what scripture says, but their version of it. The point here is that if Jesus is the authority over the Sabbath, there's a difference between Jesus's authority and the religious tradition that has grown up around the Sabbath. And that's what he's challenging. Then we get to verse six and Luke says, on another Sabbath. Right? So again, we stay with Sabbath as the setting. This time he goes into the synagogue and he was teaching and a man who was there whose right hand was shriveled. Look at the details or the shriveled. Look at the details that Luke gives. Timing. We're on another Sabbath. Place. We're in a synagogue. What's a synagogue? So in first century Judaism, there's a temple where they go and they make sacrifices and they worship God. How many temples are there? Just one. Where is the temple located? In Jerusalem. However, in every town where there is a Jewish population, there's a local place for Jewish prayer and for reading scriptures and for learning. Those places are called synagogues. We still have synagogues today because the modern rendition of rabbinic Judaism doesn't have a synagogues. So what is a synagogue? A synagogue is a local place of religious learning. Pretty much where we're at. Right? The modern day church is a analogous rendition of the original Jewish synagogue. It's a place where you can learn about the Jewish culture. It's a place where you can learn about the Jewish culture. It's a place where you can learn about the Jewish culture. So here's the setting. On a Sabbath, Jesus himself is in a place of teaching and he is presented with a man who needs healing. Verse seven. The Pharisees and the teachers of the law were looking for a reason to accuse Jesus. Don't miss the details. The Pharisees and the teachers of the law were looking for a reason to accuse Jesus. Don't miss the details. The Pharisees are listening to Jesus, but they're not listening to learn. They're listening to trap. And I think we have to be honest with ourselves. This also happens a lot today. Not everybody who listens to you has good intent. Some people listen. This is what I wrote down. This is listening with evil intent. They're not listening to hear you. They're listening to harm you. And they're waiting to give. They're waiting for you to give them enough rope to do it with. And sadly, there's a lot of people who treat Christians that way. For the last month, I've been trying to like get better at my social media game and figure out how to use social media for the benefit of the kingdom. And the amount of just irritating like comment warriors. And there are some people who've said some pretty nasty things. And I got to realize how I respond still represents the kingdom, whether I like what this person is saying to me or not. Why? Because they're not they're not going to look at my social posts because they want to learn about Jesus. They're looking at my social posts to bait me into saying something that will make them feel justified to show why Christians are hateful. And if you don't know that that's a strategy, trust me, it is. I'm going to bait you and annoy you and poke at you until you respond incorrectly. And then I'm going to judge your incorrect response as if that's the first thing you said. And I had somebody who just they really wanted to try to get under my skin. And they're and they we were having a discussion about something a few weeks ago. And I just couldn't get back to the discussion because I had other things to do. And they're like, see, I totally box you in a corner. You're so stupid. Go get a real job. I mean, I'm abbreviating what they said. That's not exactly what they said, although they did. They did. I think they called me a con man and told me I should get a real job and maybe I should learn how to read the Bible. I think that's what they said. And I responded back a couple of days later and I said, you didn't box me in a corner. I have limited limited amount of time to use social media. And I gave you the time I had. Like, that's the truth. I don't have enough time to sit and argue with every single person. Two, three responses back and forth. And if all you want to do is throw shade and call me names like you're welcome to do that. You don't hurt my feelings, but I have a limited amount of time. I have other people. And so the person didn't respond back after that. But I just said, listen, this is all I got. You can sit here and call Jesus names. He's bigger than me. You can call me. You got to call my church names. You call my children names and you're going to get up off the floor. But that's because my children deserve my protection. Jesus doesn't need it. But we should be honest that in our culture today, there are people who are listening to harm, not here. And we need to be wise enough to know who you're talking to. Am I talking to someone who's generally interested in what I have to say? Or am I talking to someone who's really just waiting to respond and attack? They're not actually in it for a probative conversation. Because the farther and farther of this cultural divide that we experience in our culture, the farther and farther of this cultural divide that we experience in our country, and there's the political divide and then there's the gender divide, and then there's a vocabulary divide that keeps getting larger and larger as vocabulary continues to get consumed by one camp or another. There's all these different divides. And eventually, all someone's really trying to do is they're trying to figure out on which field are you my enemy? And what I've figured out is how do I show you I'm not an enemy regardless of what you think? That's a challenge. And it's becoming harder and harder to portray myself as someone who loves scripture, who's not anybody's enemy. I don't need to be your enemy. You're totally allowed to disagree with me. Go for it. I don't have to make you agree with me. I'm just not going to let you change my faith either just because I don't agree with you. And it doesn't matter on which cultural divide you've had to say that sentence. But there are people out there who are only listening to attack. So this is how Jesus deals with that. Now, in verse 8, Jesus knew what they were thinking. I want to say this one too. This could be just regular old human intuition. Right? You know, you walk in, you read the room, you know what people are thinking. I don't think that's what Luke is referring to because this is a miracle story. He's about to show Jesus doing something miraculous. So I don't think Luke is trying to tell us that Jesus used his human intuition to set up a supernatural miracle. It seems more likely to me, although you can go there if you want. It seems more likely to me that this is sort of a prophetic awareness. You ever notice in scripture sometimes, and Jesus knew what they were thinking. Somebody asked me one time, does that mean Jesus was telepathic? I'm like, no, I think it means God knows everything, therefore he knows what we're thinking, and Jesus is God. Saying Jesus is telepathic means Jesus is basically a human who has some sort of extra gift. No, Jesus is actually a God who walked as a human. So he has this God-like abilities, and sometimes he uses them. And here I would refer to this as prophetic awareness. Jesus is aware of the thoughts of the people who are in the back of the room. And so I also love that Jesus doesn't call them out. Right? Like Claudia, if I knew what you were thinking, and I knew that you were thinking something about me that I didn't like, I could just turn to you and I could call you out on it. And I could make you the focus and make our conflict the focus. Jesus doesn't do any of that. He's aware that they're listening to attack. He's aware that they're looking to harm, they're looking to accuse, and he chooses to heal instead of fight. That's a big difference. He calls them out and he corrects them by doing an act of healing, not by fighting with them directly. So I would say many times it is better to respond to opposition by serving a need than making an argument. And I know as the apologist, that sounds super hypocritical, because I super love to argue for Christianity. I love to defend it. I don't need to attack other people to do it. You want to attack the resurrection? Come at me. I'm loaded for bear. I'm ready to go. You want to attack the existence of a God? I'm loaded for bear. I'm ready to go. But I don't take my apologetic arguments and beat people over the head with it. Because you can't beat someone into faith. You can walk with them and draw them and help them have an understanding. But you can't force someone to place their faith in Jesus. So Jesus is prophetically aware that they are in the back of the room. They're listening to harm. They're listening to attack. And knew what they were thinking. And he scans the room and there's the guy. There's the guy with the shriveled hand. And he goes, okay. And then he says to the man, get up and stand here in front of everyone. Now keep in mind, Jesus is teaching. So just as much as I am in the place of focus in this room right now, and everyone is listening to what I have to say, Jesus is in the synagogue and he's standing in the place of teaching. So everybody's listening to what he said. So if I were to say, hey Jim, stand up for me right now. Go. Good job. Right? But did you notice how many of you immediately turned and looked at Jim? By the way, that was unscripted. Thank you for that. Jesus makes the crippled man the focus. When the Pharisees are making him the focus. They're trying to attack him. They're trying to focus on him. And Jesus turns and he puts the focus completely somewhere else. And then Jesus uses the man as an object lesson here in verse 9. I ask you which is lawful on the Sabbath? To do good or to do evil, to save a life or destroy it? Jesus is referring to a very specific Old Testament law. But he's doing it in like a super Jesusy way. He's referring to it without having to say it. In the Old Testament law, if you were a farmer, if you had cattle, and one of your cattle fell into a ditch, you could help work to get them out of the ditch. Because that's valuing the life of the animal. And not letting them stay in a ditch and die without having access to food or water. That wasn't considered work. That was considered saving a life. Jesus knows this. Because he was there when it was written. So this is how he frames what he's about to do here. Is it lawful on the Sabbath? Because you mind Sabbath is a setting. Is it lawful to do good or do evil, save a life or destroy it? Of course the Pharisees are like, well yeah. But this, again, and I'm going to editorialize, so this is my ADHD talking. The Bible doesn't say exactly what the Pharisees said here. But if I'm putting my phariseeical hat on, there we go. For everybody watching online, I apologize. I forgot to check my batteries. I should probably learn how to be a professional and work better. So here we go. Verse 9, good one. Jesus makes this man the focus. He brings their focus right there. And then he refers to the same Old Testament law that they tried to trap him with in the beginning. And he says, which is lawful, to do evil, to save a life? Then he looks around at them all. And I also think it's interesting. Notice Jesus doesn't actually do anything. You know, sometimes in certain healing stories, Jesus will reach out and you'll touch them or he'll make a putty out of the ground and put it on him. Here, Jesus is just talking, which he's allowed to do on the Sabbath because he's in the synagogue and he's teaching. So Jesus doesn't do anything that he's not allowed to do. And he says, he looked around at them all. And then he says to the man that he made the focus. Stretch out your hand. Now, this man's hand is shriveled, is crippled in some way. And he says, stretch out your hand. He did so and he's completely healed. Now, I'll be the first to tell you, I absolutely believe God can still miraculously heal. 100%. Right? God's still God and he can heal when he chooses to. That doesn't mean that I can just take a certain potion or say a certain word and command God's divine presence. But Jesus is literally God. So he's allowed to do things that some of us still aren't able to do. What I love about this is he looks around the room. He never reveals what he knows is happening in the hearts of the Pharisees. He never calls them out on their bitterness. He instead performs an act of mercy and he heals someone and he puts the focus back on God instead of himself. He doesn't attack or have to defend from the Pharisees. And then probably, I mean, let's just be perfectly honest. If I were to try to do this right now, right, if the Holy Spirit were to tell me, Bill, we're going to heal somebody on the spot. Let's do this. I would definitely have to ask God for confirmation first because that's not something he's ever done in my life. But when Jesus performs this miracle, you got to be honest, if that happened in this room right now, what would your what would your primary reaction be? Oh, man, we'd be worshiping. We'd be worshiping till dinner time if God was started miraculous healing. Notice verse 11. The Pharisees and the teachers of the law were furious. Isn't that such an odd response to such a grace filled moment? And here this is this is this is my opinion, Alex. But again, it's my sermon. I'm allowed to throw my opinions in. I think the reason that Jesus doesn't call out the bad attitude of the Pharisees is because they reveal their own heart when they respond inappropriately to God's miraculous nature. The rest of the crowd in this room, the rest of the men and women who are in this synagogue and they're worshiping God and they're praying and they see God do a miracle. Any normal thinking person who did not have an agenda up front would be like, praise God. Let's thank God for that really awesome thing that just happened. And yet it's the Pharisees and the teachers of the religious law that are angry at God healing someone who needed healing. What does that tell you about them? Well, it tells you that they wanted God on their terms. Yep, I'm going to love and I'm going to worship God. But I want God on my terms. Why? Because I want all of you to do what I tell you to do. And if I can control what God says and I can control the right interpretation of his word, then I can make all of you live my way. And Jesus steps into this entire scenario and he just blows the whole boat up. He's like, nope. I think how we respond when Jesus, when, when Jesus works reveals more about us than it does about him. Right? When Jesus performs this healing and their first reaction is anger, their first reaction is not worship. I mean, anything but worship would be off. But anger, that just doesn't, it just doesn't even compute to me. If I were to watch the son of God do a miracle that I would be angry about it. But then I have to remember they weren't there to learn. They were there to accuse. They were there to harm. And what Jesus did did not violate any of the law and also helped someone. And what are they really angry about? He didn't give them any ammunition to attack him with. And again, this would on a normal sermon day, this would be where I would have you identify with the Pharisees. And I would ask you where your overly religious nature is and how do you respond to Jesus? And we'd have an altar call. We take an offering. We go home. But that's not this sermon. Now I want you to replay the entire story in your mind. But I want you to put yourself in Jesus's shoes. You walk into a church, somebody approaches you who's way too religious for you. And they're trying to apply their religious traditions and tell you that you're not good enough. Jesus in both scenes, the first Sabbath and the second Sabbath, Jesus is the one who does the work. Jesus is the one who is questioned by the opposition. Jesus remains blameless and righteous in both situations. And in both scenes, Jesus is the Lord over religious rules. In the first scene with the heads of grain, Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath. In the second scene where Jesus is teaching in the synagogue and he heals the crippled person, Jesus is still Lord of the Sabbath. So why does Luke put these two passages together for us? Because Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath. Now to a first century Jew, that's a big thing. But then you got to add one more piece to the puzzle. Luke is not a first century Jew. We are reading a gospel written by a Gentile, not a Jew. Luke did not grow up obeying the Old Testament law. Luke did not grow up going to Pentecost and celebrating Passover and remembering the story of the Exodus and studying the Old Testament scriptures. Why? Because Luke is a Greek. So what does it mean for the Greek Christian who did not grow up as a Jew but grew up as a Gentile? What does it mean to the Greek Christian that Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath? I submit to you what it means is Jesus is Lord over religious tradition. We should not allow religious traditionalism to replace the love and service of Christ himself. That's what I think Luke is saying here.