Observation W Verse Thoughts / Details
I (Jesus) who Luke 12:49 the Son of God, Son of Man, Promised Messiah of the Hebrew people, Savior of the World
bring fire on the earth what Luke 12:49 this could be seen as a reference to the "tongues of fire" in Acts 2, but that doesn't fit the rest of the verses that have a much
clearer "end times judgment" context. In light of this, the fire is more likely the fire that will destory the world (2 Peter 3:7)
by proxy then, Christ is refering to the rest of the coming Judgment that awaits all humanity.
how I wish it were… what Luke 12:49 Jesus is not wishing for the death of all humanity, but the final judgment and defeat of sin that will be accomplished
I have a baptism to undergo what Luke 12:50 Jesus is not referring to Christian baptism. He has already been baptized (Luke 3:21‐22). He is referring to His coming suffering
what constraint I am under what Luke 12:50 Jesus knows His father's will and has already "set his face towards Jerusalem" (Luke 9:51) Remember the doctrine of
incarnation holds "the Word became flesh and dwelt among us" (John 1:14) The term "Hypostatic Union" is used to
describe the dual nature of Jesus as being fully God and fully human at the same time.
not peace but division what Luke 12:51 ultimately, Jesus ministry brought a reconciliation beween man and God, but it also causes division between people. This
is due in part to the fact that truth, by its very nature, is exclusive. When one thing is true, every that is NOT that is false
division within family what Luke 12:52‐53 Jesus knew then the unfortunate reality that belief in Him would cause division witin the family unit as some came to Christ
and others remained pagan. We still experience this today with some family members choosing sin over surrender to Jesus
He said to the crowd who Luke 12:54 notice again how Luke uses the crowd as a witness to the teachings of Jesus. This also is a shift from private to public teaching
western cloud… rain what Luke 12:54 the Mediteranean Sea is to the west of the area, people learned that if the wind was coming from the water, rain was coming
southern wind… hot what Luke 12:55 there is a large arid desert region to the south of the area, a long sustained southern wind could wither & destroy crops
Hyopcrites… how to interpret what Luke 12:56 Jesus is pointing out that while the crowd (ie the people at large) are able to understand how the wind affects the weather
they are unable to see how the presence of the Savior signals a coming judgment
this present time when Luke 12:56 the time of the Messiah, the incarnation, the earthly ministry of Jesus
judge for yourselves what Luke 12:57 the crowd, aparently, had the "wisdom" to interpret the wind but could not then apply that wisdom to disputes between men
likely, Jesus also has an eschatological purpose in this next analogy in that the "judge" is the Father in Heaven at the final
judgment, this does not mean then that we can by our own suffering repay our sins and earn salvation (v59)
at that time when Luke 13:1 Luke is linking the next few verses to the teaching at the end of the previous chapter
Galilean execution what Luke 13:1 there is no additional information about this event outside of Luke's account. Thankfully, the Lord provided all the information
needed for correect understanding of Jesus teaching. According to this report, there were some Galilleans (likely Jews) who
were slain in the Temple while giving sacrifices by Roman Guards. This would have been sacrilige to the Jewish people
worse sinners what Luke 13:2 Jesus uses this report to strike at the heart of the crowds underlying assumption, "This bad thing must have happened to them
because they were more sinful than we are." Jesus strikes this misunderstadning of righteousness and sin with a strong NO
unless repent… will perish what Luke 13:3 Jesus reminds the crowd that death is inevitible for all of us, yet, there is a worse punishment waiting after death, this
eternal separation from God is to be feared more than the loss of this temporal life (Matthew 10:28)
killed in tower collapse what Luke 13:4 Jesus gives a second example of a tragic event happening that many would have blamed those who lost their lives for causing
think they are more guilty what Luke 13:4 sadly, we are still guilty of this today, we like to think they a certain group is more guilty than us, or conversely that we are
less guilty than a different person, because we mistakenly think that matters at all!
unless repent… will perish what Luke 13:5 Jesus can't be clearer than this repeated statement. Judgement is coming, God has provided rescue, but we must repent
told this parable what Luke 13:6 remember, in a parable, none of the story is real, it is a fictional story to teach a meaning
fig tree what Luke 13:6 the imagery of the fig tree is often used as an analogy for the nation of Isreal: Jer 8:13, Micah 7:1,
look for fruit what Luke 13:6 "fruit" is the by product of the nature for which something is created and the means by which it is reproduced.
three years now what Luke 13:7 I do not belive the number "3" here is of any specific significance other than to illustrate that the owner (God) has been
more than patient with the fig tree (Israel) waiting for the fruit to bloom
cut it down what Luke 13:7 the final outcome of the unfruitful life is that of judgment and separation
one more year what Luke 13:8 the man tending the fig tree (Jesus) gets the master to allow him to care for it and give it more specialized attention
yet, notice that if the tree is still unfruitful, the outcome will not have changed.