Well, good morning and welcome to catalyst My name is Bill it is my privilege to be able to share with you from the Word of God this morning Thank you for joining us on this Palm Sunday for all of you who have joined us online and are worshipping with us virtually Welcome to the catalyst family. So here at catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to In Christ, thank you very much loving people to life change in Christ So if you are with worshipping with us here in the room this morning We love you if you're worshipping with us remotely and you're watching us on your phone tablet or TV We love you, but we love you enough to tell you the truth And that is we don't want you to stay the same Because Jesus doesn't want you to stay the same and one of the key ways that we learn to be more like him is learning from his word Now typically this would be the moment where I move into What our sermon series is and what the key thought for the day is and we don't have those this morning because today is a standalone Sermon, I want to answer one simple question Why? Palm Sunday Why do we call it Palm Sunday? What does it mean to say Palm Sunday? In fact at around our dinner table just this weekend one of my nieces asked a question Why did they call it Palm Sunday? And I think if you were like me and I grew up in church So I'm gonna date myself here I grew up in church where I was a kid in Sunday school and they still had the felt boards Where you could take the pieces of felt and stick them right and so then my teacher would take the felt move it over and Take felt move it over and like tell a story almost Stop stop motion capture style. So I learned about Palm Sunday when I was a child, but I will admit to you That I never didn't learn enough I learned more about Palm Sunday this past Monday preparing to teach you this morning Than I've ever learned in my entire life. So here's the teaser Unless you understand Alexander the Great you don't understand Palm Sunday Right, that's where I want us to go today unless you understand Alexander the Great you will not properly understand Palm Sunday So with that said I'm gonna ask you to turn in your Bibles with me to the book of Luke chapter 19 The gospel of Luke is easy to find. It's the third book in the New Testament Matthew mark Luke while you're turning or tapping to Luke 19 give you a little backstory who wrote the gospel of Luke Luke very good star. What was Luke's occupation? Doctor of Physician star for bonus points. What makes Luke different from every other known author of Scripture? I Heard it. He was a Gentile. That's right Dr. Luke represents the only known Gentile author of Scripture and if you put Luke acts together He wrote both books Luke acts is Luke part 2 and Luke is acts part 1. They're really Luke acts Dr. Luke wrote more of the New Testament than any other author including the Apostle Paul The Apostle Paul wrote more individual documents totally true He wrote more letters, but the sheer weight of what dr Luke has to share with us is the greatest part of the New Testament And I think that's just such a beautiful portrait of God's grace that when we got to the New Testament The single biggest author or contributor to the New Testament is a Gentile doctor not a Jewish fisherman or carpenter So we're gonna read first from Luke chapter 19 28 to 44 And then we're gonna go back through here and hopefully discover some things that you may not have seen there So let's start here at Luke 19 verse 28 After Jesus had said this he went on ahead going up to Jerusalem as He approached Bethphage and Bethany at the hill called the Mount of Olives He said two of his disciples saying to them Go to the village ahead of you and as you enter it you will find a colt tied there Which no one has ever ridden untie it and bring it here if anyone asks you Why are you untying it say the Lord needs it verse 32 Those who were sent ahead went and found it just as he had told them as they were untying the Colts The owners asked them. Why are you one time the Colt they replied the Lord needs it They brought it to Jesus through their cloaks on the Colt and put Jesus on it as he went along People spread their cloaks on the road 37 when he came near the place where the road goes down to the Mount of Olives the whole crowd of disciples began Joyfully to praise God in loud voices for all the miracles they had seen Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord peace on heaven or peace in heaven and glory in the highest Some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to Jesus teacher Rebuke your disciples I tell you he replied if they keep quiet the stones will cry out As he approached Jerusalem he saw the city he wept over it and said if you Even you had only known on this day what would bring you peace But now it is hidden from your eyes The days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment Against you and encircle you and hem you in on every side They will dash you to the ground you and the children within your walls. They will not leave one stone on another Because you did not recognize the time of God's coming to you So let's rewind here Now did anybody notice the word palm was not in that passage I Did that on purpose? So the Palm Sunday passage is in all four gospels. I read all four of them to prepare for this message I didn't feel the need to read to you from all four gospels So I had to then say okay Lord well, which one do you want me to center in on? I chose Luke's gospel because of the details at the end Luke is the only one who records Jesus's thoughts or Jesus's words As he sees Jerusalem on this day And I thought there's probably not a better way to talk about Palm Sunday than to look at what Jesus himself said So when I get to the point of them laying the cloaks on the ground I'll totally explain to you why Luke leaves that detail out that Matthew and Mark and John all included That's kind of the secret nugget, but you got to hold on with me. Just pause your Taco Bell order on your phone Let's start back here verse 28. So verse 28 says after Jesus's words Jesus had said this Anybody who's a good Bible student? What do you have to do there? You have to go back and go well what what what this What did Jesus just say that Luke is tying the Palm Sunday narrative? Into if you go back and look Luke Luke places this event just after the parable of 10 Minas, this is the one where a servant I mean a master has servants and he gives things out. What's the main key of that passage? Stewardship being trustworthy which that which God has given you I do not believe the Holy Spirit speaking through Luke in this instance made a mistake What I think is Luke intentionally includes the parable of the 10 Minas and brings the theme of stewardship in To bring us into Palm Sunday Now you'll notice when you read through the gospels that the stories are not in the same order That is because in first century writing it wasn't necessary to put all of the stories in the same chronological order It was more important to make sure they got all of the teachings of Jesus that were there So you will notice as you read through Matthew as you read through Luke as you read through John that they do reorder the events And that is not a mistake, you know Someone who's a skeptic or doesn't believe in the word of God they might come to you and say see that's why the Bible's a mistake And I would go okay Well by the same logic if I were to go buy three different newspapers And those newspapers didn't all have the same articles in the same order Then those newspapers must be fallible and they must have mistakes No The articles were written by three different different writers edited by different editors And then placed in the way that that paper wanted to tell that story the same thing with the gospels They're being guided by the holy spirit, but each one has a different theological agenda Matthew is writing to a group of jews and he's saying guys this jesus. He's the jewish promised messiah Mark is largely just writing down peters peters preaching ministry Which is why if you look at the gospel of mark more of it deals with jesus's last week on earth The percentage wise that's where peter focuses and then when we make it to luke luke has a totally different agenda Luke is writing the gentiles He's saying listen this jesus of nazareth the guy that the jews call their messiah. He's our savior So that's why Each biblical author places the stories in a narrative here in luke's narrative back in chapter 9 Jesus begins what's called the journey to jerusalem and from chapter 9 all the way to here we are in chapter 19 Jesus is doing ministry winding his way coming to jerusalem Why because he's about to be our savior in a lukean world He's about to luke's about to show him the savior, but first I got to show him entering Into jerusalem as the jewish messiah even though he doesn't use it watch this So after this after a parable on stewardship after a parable teaching people listen God gives us things and he holds us accountable for those things I guess the easiest way I could describe stewardship god gives us things and he holds us accountable for those things After he had said that He went ahead going on up to jerusalem now that word up does not refer to traveling north Does anybody ever do that? I'm going to go up when I travel north and i'm gonna go down when I travel south But I don't ever hear somebody say i'm gonna go left when I travel west and i'm gonna go right when I travel east The reason they're going up is not a north south thing. It is an elevation thing See, we don't we don't know that because we don't really live there. But if you were to have to travel From let's say here to Tennessee or kentucky by foot You would eventually have to walk up because there are mountains in that there be mountains in that region So when we read need going on up to jerusalem, we need to understand where jericho is in relation to jerusalem Jericho is closer to so let's see. I got to do this in reverse and I don't do that good. So The river jordan is here If you remember in the old testament jericho was the very first city that joshua invaded jericho is like a scotch That's a biblical term scotch right there. So here's the jordan river. Here's jericho. It's just right next to the river Jerusalem's up here. The problem is you got to travel from here to here. It's not a straight line. You're going up in elevation Right, so think about the story of the good samaritan on the road from jerusalem to jericho and it travels up almost 3,000 feet in elevation so that they're giving us a big detail He says as he approached bethphage and bethany This is verse 29 as he approached bethphage and bethany at the hill called the mount of alice. Let's take that next so river Jerusalem's the scotch. I mean jericho's the scotch We come over here and we're going to end at bethany and bethany is like on the outskirts Of jerusalem in the same way I could say that you and I are sitting here in newport We're on the outskirts of wilmington although I could also describe wilmington as possibly the greater philadelphia area And I could describe philadelphia in the northeastern region of our country. So when he travels from jericho to bethany All of all of luke's original readers Totally understood where they were at in the same way as if I were to say that he traveled from dc to philly on his way to new york Now all of a sudden in your mind, did you notice your brain went? Let me reach back pull map map east Right, and I didn't have to tell you that if you were traveling from dc to philly on the way to new york What direction are you traveling? North, but how did you know that? Did you think about that? How do you know that because you know the map at where you live, right? You just natively understood. Oh, they were traveling north. Well those little details in here that we might miss Luke's original readers totally understood. Oh, they were traveling up. They were traveling to the west. They passed by bethany On the way to the hill called the mount of olives and then he sent two of his disciples verse 30 Go to the village ahead of you as you enter it. You will find a cult tied there, which no one has ever written So this is the first thing about palm sunday that i've got to get into How does jesus know? The cult is there There's two possibilities And I will admit to you before I give you the two possibilities Both are completely biblically accurate possibility number one. Jesus is also the divine son of god He uses his divinity and he knows in advance The state of the place that he's not been yet 100 totally possible second Jesus prepared in advance that is not recorded for us in the scriptures where he spoke to the owner of the cult He was like hey man Next year when I come by can I borrow your cult for like a hot minute? I just need i'm just gonna need to borrow it now you may be thinking but wait a minute doesn't that diminish Jesus I submit to you this morning. I don't think it does Does jesus himself know that he is going to fulfill prophecy? Totally jesus knows what he's doing. It does not take away from the moment If jesus pre arranged with the owner He knows that the cult needed to be there In fact, I would say to you I think the pre-arrangement option is the better option and the reason I think that Is the response of the owner When he tells his disciples hey go up ahead of me. There's going to be a cult. You'll find it tied there Nobody is ever written on that cult just untie it and bring it here If jesus is only omnisciently telling his disciples He's sending his disciples to do an act of thievery Right, he's sending his disciples like like robin hood sends out little john just go steal people's stuff If jesus is only operating in his divine knowledge, which he totally has right? Jesus is the son of god. I don't want to say i'm diminishing his divinity But if jesus is only operating on his divine side and he's prophetically knowing that there's a cult there Then he's sending his disciples to steal someone else's stuff whereas If jesus on his human side Is saying guys guys Jesse and I we went there like last year. We talked to his name's tom Tom's got this cult. All you got to do is tell him that i'm asking for it and tom's gonna let you have it See does that diminish what jesus is trying to do? No, it doesn't it does absolve the disciples from committing an act of theft And it makes sense of why the owner goes. Oh, yeah, totally Now i'm not discounting the the the divine aspect of it. If you want to live there you totally can but I think Think that the human aspect makes a little bit more sense of some of the other things that are going on in the story So he says go ahead to the village ahead of you as you enter it You'll find a cult there which no one has ever written untie it bring it here 31 if anyone asks you Why are you untying it say the lord needs it 32 those who were sent ahead when he found it just as he has told them All of those verses are true if jesus is in his divinity or if he's in his humanity All of them are true then we get to 31 as they were untying the cult Its owner asked why are you untying the cult? And the disciples reply the lord needs it and they brought it to jesus I think it makes more sense that jesus pre-established with this owner. He borrows the cult why because Jesus knows what he's going to do There's certain now there are certain prophecies about jesus prophecies about jesus that jesus had no control over whether he could fulfill them You're never in control of who your parents are You're not in control of who your parents parents were or your parents parents parents or your parents parents parents And I could keep tracking that all the way back to show that both mary and joseph are both from the line of david from the line Of abraham now that's a detail that jesus was born into that in his humanity He did not have the ability to control this one He could have and I almost to submit to you. I believe he is because this is the moment Where jesus is revealing? his messianic kingship To the nation of israel now they're not going to get it right we know that or there there wouldn't be a good friday There wouldn't be an easter sunday if they just totally got it anthony and they just made him king The rest of the bible story would be a whole lot different So we get here 34 Another thing I think is really interesting about 34 The wording here it says the lord needs it if I were to translate that more hyper literally or more woodenly The word lord there is koreos. It means he who has authority So literally that sentence said he who has the authority said it is necessary I just like that sentence man when jesus tells his disciples Jesse take your boys go get the cult bro if the owner asks his name is tom He can be a little clobby right I get it. So if tom if tom gets in your face Just tell him he who has authority said it's necessary And all of a sudden the owner said all right. Well, why did jesus say it's necessary? Because jesus knows Not only what's going to happen on palm sunday Jesus knows what's going to happen on tuesday and wednesday and thursday and friday and saturday and easter sunday now in this moment His followers don't know any of those things but jesus Absolutely does So here um in 34 he who has authority said it is necessary 35 They brought it to jesus. They threw their cloaks on the colt And put jesus on it Why do they take their cloaks and put it on the colt first? They're making a cushion for a saddle For jesus to sit on so he's not sitting on the colt uncomfortably by himself So here in this moment jesus Sends his followers to go get the colt and his followers respond By giving of themselves to be part of jesus's entry and make him comfortable while he does it Then 36 As he went along the road People spread their cloaks on this road so now we got to talk about Why does why does luke highlight the cloaks but not the palm branches? So here's what I understand if you were to go in your bible and you were go to look in the other three gospels The other three gospels are going to tell you palm branches and Cloaks they're going to tell you both things were laid down on the ground But these two things symbolize Two very different meanings so again what makes luke different from matthew and mark and john Gentile thank you luke is a gentile matthew mark and john are jewish So their perspective is very different So here we go Let's rewind the clock 600 years before this event We're going to go to just before the end of the old testament So in the middle of the old testament after god saves his people from egypt they live in the land for a while Then they get kings pop quiz who is the first king of the united monarchy of israel? saul followed by david followed by Salomon then the kingdom has civil war Fractures that's actually what it sounded like in the day Then the north is the kingdom of anybody know Israel the southern kingdom of Judah that's right. Look how much you guys already know. It's fantastic. So After that then the northern kingdom of israel has an obedience problem. They go into captivity About 127 years later juda down here has an obedience problem. They go into captivity They're in captivity for 70 years during that 70 years. Babylon defeats assyria then persia defeats Babylon The king of persia says, you know what we should do. We should let all these people go home Not necessarily because persia's like trying to be buddy buddy with everybody, but they realize sometimes you win more flies with honey So if I let everybody go home, I can still tax them from home and take their money So persia wasn't like trying to be altruistic. They were just saying, you know What if I buy a little bit of goodwill collecting taxes later is going to be easier. So then everybody goes home Well, then you don't really hear about the next part eventually The persian empire falls to a man named alexander We know him as alexander the great So this is the very tail end of the old testament and then pop quiz how many years between malachite and matthew? 400 400 years of human history between what you and I call the old testament or first testament and the new testament or second testament 400 years of human history happened Stuff went down people did things This 400 years is vitally important for today So a man named alexander the great defeats the persian empire and pretty much most of the known world Alexander looked at the breadth of his domain and wept for there were no more worlds to conquer Alexander defeated egypt by signing a treaty. They didn't even want to fight him He owned Everything his next big move if he hadn't gotten sick and died is he was going to head east And he was going to conquer all the way through china the pacific ocean. That was his plan so alexander the great builds this massive, uh metoperican domain near the end of the old testament but then He dies Suddenly as a young man he dies and alexander's territory Is broken up by all of his generals and each general Gets a territory named after them, right? So imagine this massive domain now. It's divided up amongst all these generals What do generals know how to do? fight So what do you think alexander's generals do after each one of them becomes a king? They go to war with each other Right. So alexander has this massive beautiful empire He dies and all of a sudden his entire empire is embroiled in multiple civil wars all at the same time Well, there is an emperor by the name of celsius and he actually in syria, which is just north of Jerusalem galilee samaria area. He's just he's the ruler just north Of where all of the new testament takes place and he goes he looks down At the area of palestine galilee israel and he goes, you know what? I want that and I know that general he's not as good as me And so celsius comes in and he sweeps through he defeats the general who was in charge and now Celsus is in charge. And so now celsius is in charge and he begins what's known as the Seleucid empire the Seleucid empire now rules Over the jewish people in the same way that persia did and in the same way that alexander did now The Seleucids are ruling over them. So Post their return to the land all the way back ezra and nehemiah They really really nearly never had a great time of ruling on their own somebody was always in charge somebody was always asking for taxes So now the Seleucids take control in 175 bc so 175 years before the events of the new testament a man by the name of Antiochus comes to power in the Seleucid empire Antiochus Antiochus I'm not allowed to say in church the kind of word that Antiochus is but he's really not a nice guy so Antiochus names himself epiphanies He names himself Antiochus epiphanies epiphany literally means god man So he names himself Antiochus the god man and then Antiochus outlaws Every other religion for his entire kingdom which includes judaism He outlaws the worship of yaweh. He outlaws the jewish sacrificial system He outlaws the jewish food laws And forces the jews to eat unclean food and of course you can tell the jews are super happy about this And so there's this starts this the seed of rebellion in 170 175 then Antiochus in 167 bc Walks into the temple in jerusalem takes a pig And sacrifices the pig on the altar of yaweh to worship zeus Yeah, so for those of you who are saying well, let me fill you in a pig is an unclean animal according to the old testament Antiochus takes an unclean animal into the holiest place in all of judaism and sacrifices unholy blood thereby Defaming the temple Defaming the lord god Defaming and standing against all of god's laws and he basically spoils or or Taints the very temple of the living god The jews can't take it. This was the last straw you might tell me I can't pray You might tell me I can't eat my kosher foods, but bro. You just took a pig Into a holy place and sacrifice to an unholy god in an unholy way and the jews are done at this moment Antiochus sparks a jewish rebellion This rebellion it works kind of guerrilla style, right? It's like the beginning of the american revolution We're fighting a much bigger power and so they're doing it, you know all mel gibson the patriot style You know a little attack here a little attack there and then in the middle of this rebellion A a guerrilla leader comes to power and his name is judas maccabeus That word might sound familiar any of you grew up in capitol church the maccabees, right? So judas maccabeus is a is a guerrilla fighter underneath of the seleucid empire 175 years before jesus judas maccabeus unites all of these warring little tribes of jewish fighters into a jewish army and full-on rebellion breaks loose in israel and they defeat the seleucids And free the jewish people for the first time Since the middle of the old testament when the exile began So this is who you ever heard about the maccabees judas maccabeus becomes the first king of israel After the old testament times he begins the maccabean named after him Dynasty and his sons and his sons become the quote unquote kings of israel After judas maccabeus leads the revolt after they defeat the seleucids they push everybody out of israel They get the priests to come in and cleanse the temple. They reestablish the worship of yahweh They reestablish the jewish sacrificial system and jewish maccabeus is fine or judas maccabeus is coming back to jerusalem And jerusalem is receiving judas maccabeus as the new established king of israel In order to greet him and intentionally fulfill old testament prophecy What kind of animal do you think judas is riding? He's riding a colt and what do you think they're laying down on the ground in front of him? Palm branches not coats palm branches This is where the palm sundae symbol comes from and like I said if you don't get alexander the great You don't get palm sundae correctly So judas maccabeus enters jerusalem the jews of his day they cut down palm branches They lay them on the ground in front of him if you're wanting the old testament reference. It's zechariah chapter 9 verse 9 the jews 175 years before jesus Intentionally do an act to fulfill zechariah 9 9 because they believe judas maccabeus Is the true returning king of israel who will establish the davidic kingdom all over again? And they intentionally cut down the palm branches for judas maccabeus to walk over it on a colt When judas maccabeus strikes the new jewish currency his face is on one side. Yes. It's on the back palm branches from From 175 bc forward to the time of the new testament palm branches symbolized bloody revolt from oppression and power And if you don't get the history you don't get the symbol right So keep in mind 175 years ago the guy named judas or could be translated juda It did I did speak to a jewish scholar can really go both ways. So if you like juda better juda maccabeus is greeted as the quote unquote king of israel but guess what happened jews died And his son took over and then his grandson took over and then after the third maccabean ruler Guess what world power comes into play Romulus remus they start the roman empire Thank you, Michael jolg It's just the way it rolls in my house, sorry so rome For those who didn't know that romulus was the beginner of the nation the entire army of rome started the roman republic the roman republic comes The roman empire the romans defeat the maccabees And plunged the jews back under oppressive control again the maccabeans ruled over the jewish and jewish nation for less than I think 150 170 years max They had freedom But judas maccabeus wasn't the true king of israel because the forever king Is to fully fulfill old testament prophecy the returning king is supposed to be king forever They're not supposed to be ruled over by a foreign power again so now understanding the history of palm branches Let's go back here to verse 36 As he jesus went along people spread their cloaks on the road Now let me ask you again what makes luke different from the other gospel writers He's a gentile now tell me why does he leave out the palm branches? It's not his history The palm branches the jewish revolt the jewish national pride Against the babalon that is rome Is not a part of luke's world view Luke's a gentile he was born a gentile He was saved from his gentileness and became a gentile christian but the entire symbolism of palm branches leading to bloody revolt of an oppressive pagan power who Spoils the temple of god none of that is in luke's playbook It doesn't matter to him because it's not part of his identity But now ask yourself why is that huge for matthew and for mark and for john Because they're all jews They all see jesus As the true king where judas maccabeus was a false king. In fact, what's really interesting? about Um, and I know what's in here. I promise it was what's really interesting about luke's writing So let's look at 37 when he came near the place where the road goes to the mount of olives The whole crowd of disciples began joyfully to praise god in loud voices for all the miracles they had seen Luke is laying up jesus as a miracle-working savior not a bloody rebellionist Right. That's who luke is. That's how luke sees the savior in this moment. We get to verse 38 Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the lord You know what's super interesting about that verse? If you want to look i'm i'll give it to you, but if you want to look psalm 118 verse 26 reads blessed is He who comes in the name of the lord luke changes the verse blessed is the King who comes in the name of the lord why because luke's Gentile audience does not understand the jewish national history Of its people so luke adds a detail in there for you and for me and for all of us who are gentile christians Who aren't looking back to judas maccabeus going go bloody revolt? Luke has to tell us That this is about kingship luke has to tell us that this is about sovereignty and stewardship and authority because as a gentile I don't get that As a gentile, I don't understand Then peace in heaven and glory in the highest anybody know where that quote's from I'll give you a hint. You're usually a wrapping presents at this time It's christmas Charlie brown does quote it. You're totally right. That's right Thankfully charlie brown is quoting from luke chapter 2 so it still does come back to the bible No luke is quoting the angelic message that he himself recorded in luke chapter 2 about the arrival Of jesus and the angels said in heaven glory Peace in heaven and glory in the highest so 38 luke combines two Two scripture passages the first is from psalms Where he specifically adds the detail about it being a king so the gentile audience doesn't miss what's going down These people are calling jesus the new judas maccabeus This is the new king who will save us from rome the new battle on That's why verse 39 Some of the pharisees in the crowd said teacher rebuke your disciples They always have to sound pretentious every time I see the word pharisee. That's not teacher rebuke your disciples Why would the pharisees say that? Unless the pharisees full well knew What the crowd was really saying about jesus This jesus this miracle worker He will lead us in bloody revolt And kill the horrible bab I mean you can even see in the new testament they use the language of babalon to talk about rome Right, they call rome the new babalon. Why because it's the spiritual power that's always opposing israel. Rome is the babalon of its day The hint they say teacher rebuke your disciples to which verse 40 jesus replies listen, bro Here's the new international version listen dude if they don't talk the rocks are going to yell at you I don't think you're going to like that Jesus knows the truth Of what the crowd is saying about him is jesus the king of the jews That's not a rhetorical question. Try it again. Is jesus the king of the jews? I think half of you believe that we'll try the third time is jesus the king of the jews Yes Did he establish his kingdom in this moment? Yes, he did Is he ruling on the physical throne right now on earth? Correct But jesus is coming as the king So the palm branches being laid down are the symbol of jesus's Sovereignty his authority to fill the role of the king of israel what the people got wrong Was the way in which jesus would establish his kingdom? Blood was 100 percent shed by him But not by his hand His blood established forever his kingship instead of his hand Shedding the blood of others to establish a temporary kingship That's what the palm of palm sunday has to be Because of all of the history of jewish expectation that went into this moment They're looking for the savior to save them from rome Not the savior to save them from sin praise god God knew what we needed more which is a savior from sin versus a savior from rome God knew leave rome to itself. It'll kill itself. Trust me its opulence its decadence And if you look into the fall of rome, how did the the warring germanic tribes that were way up here in in In europe, how did they defeat rome? They destroyed its infrastructure The first thing they were attacked were the aqueducts that fed clean water into the capital city What happened when the capital city no longer had clean water people got sick then they started fighting amongst themselves then the nation crumbled And then it fractured and thus was the end of the roman empire the entire pax romana the peace That allowed the gospel to travel the world and you can be wrong. I think that rome was absolutely a wonderfully horrible Pagan power That god used mightily for his power, right all roads lead to rome. Guess what? That means all roads can carry the gospel out of rome. Why do you think paul was trying to get there? Paul's trying to get to rome because he knows if I get here like spokes on a bicycle wheel We can carry the gospel to all of the known world. Why because the devil already paved the road for me All I gotta do is walk it That's exactly how the church grew rome built the roads and we carried the gospel Devil can build the road. We're still going to carry jesus As he then verse 41 This is what's only in luke. This is why I chose this passage As he this is jesus approached jerusalem and saw the city he wept over it verse 42 and said If you even you had only known on this day, what would bring you peace stop? Who is jesus talking to? He is talking to the city of jerusalem And that city is personifying the jewish people so he's talking to the city and obviously the city is not going to talk back But the city is a symbol Of god's people who live there at this time If you and I can add in there my chosen people If you my chosen people had only known on this day, what would bring you peace? What will bring them peace? It's not salvation from rome. It's salvation from sin That's what brings true peace. Why do you think jesus is called the prince of peace? Because he can bring peace in the midst of a storm. I don't need the storm to go away I just need the savior to sit with me in the storm. That's peace Sometimes I think we get distracted and we believe that the only way I can have peace is if everything in my world goes my way But that's impossible if everybody has different opinions of what my way should be You know bob's gonna need it one way daddy's gonna have it a different way megan's gonna have a different way bill's gonna Have it a different way if all of us needed god to give us our way There would be no peace because everyone would have a different definition of it here jesus said If you had only known on this day, what would bring you peace meaning me meaning making me the king of your heart Not just your nation But now it is hidden from your eyes verse 43 The days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment against you and encircle you Heavily on every side 44 they will dash you to the ground your children within your walls They will not leave one stone on another because you did not recognize the time of god's coming to you jesus switches roles from the king to the prophet and jesus prophesies the condemnation of the then city of israel For not recognizing their true king When did that passage happen? In ad 70 when the romans came in and destroyed the jewish capital city and literally dismantled the temple brick by brick Now here i've got to make a big point here because Any of you ever heard of a guy named martin luther, right? Big theologian of the past he like nailed a nice big letter on a church door really cool story for another day There have been people all throughout the history of the christian church who have treated the jews poorly Because they murdered jesus And they use this passage right here as their justification That the jews didn't know who jesus was so we should keep punishing them what I want you to see here in verse 42 43 44 What is the punishment for the nation of israel for not recognizing their king? It's not being a hated people throughout all the history Jesus pronounced judgment on the city itself The romans came through and were the hand of god's judgment in ad 70 There should be no anti-semitism in the christian church He is the jewish messiah And the gentile savior of the world. He is the king of kings whether we like it or not. Guess what jesus was jewish You know, but there have been people who've taken this passage and they bent it into a hateful thing They shouldn't be there Jesus said if you had only known what would bring you peace. What is jesus saying? What brings us peace? Recognizing that jesus is king No matter where you live Jesus is king Whether you're in a roman territory Whether you're in an otterman territory Whether you're in a colonial american territory Whether you're in a european territory whether you're in china africa asia south america florida delaware jesus is king That that knowledge right there. That is what brings peace The palm branches were true in the sense that jesus is 100% the king like i'm not backing down from that But jesus did not establish his kingdom Through violent bloody revolt He established his kingdom through sacrificial bloodshed to solve humanity's real problem Which is a sin problem If we fix the sin problem, we find righteousness and peace if you and here i'm gonna say something And I love you But i'm the one with the mic The future of the church The health the power and the victory of jesus's church Is in his kingship not legislation You cannot establish the kingdom of god Without the king himself on the throne So it's not that I don't believe that america is a wonderful country. I love being blessed to be a citizen of this great nation but if you want to put My king up next to any government official doesn't matter who it is president vice president Supreme court justice governor mayor doesn't matter Jesus is king That is the message that brings peace that is also the message that brings healing That's also the message that brings hope that's also the message brings restoration. That's also the message brings salvation Jesus on this day 2 000 years ago Revealed the greatest secret to finding peace in your life and all of his people missed it and today many of us miss it I When I interviewed and megan don a few a few of you were in the room that day I said i'm an apolitical pastor. I don't believe the pulpit belongs in politics I want to work on the word of god other people can work on citizen issues. That's cool. I love our country I'm proud to be an american like I love living here But whether america lives or dies whether it succeed or fails doesn't stop jesus from being the king of kings That's the thing about palm sunday that I think modern day christians miss Is our allegiance To jesus because we're a christian nation America a christian nation, right are we allegiance to jesus because we grew up as an americans Are we allegiance to jesus because our heavenly citizenship outweighs our national citizenship? That's what jesus wanted the jews to understand on palm sunday and they missed the boat hardcore They missed it thinking no no no jesus has to be my national king. He's got to save me from the romans He's got to beat back all the horrible Pagan things that these people do around me then we'll see his kingship and jesus said no You can have my kingship in your heart right now and still live in rome You can have my kingship in your heart right now and live in america Because no matter what I mean think about the church in china that's underground Right the church in china is growing faster than the church of america by leaps and bounds The church in africa is growing by leaps and bounds more than the church in north america The gospel is exploding. I was reading a report last night The countries that send the most missionaries in the world The united states sends more missionaries to foreign soil than any other country But what you might not realize is the united states is receiving more foreign missionaries than it ever has and that number is doubling every year South korea sends more missionaries into the us than the us sends to south korea I don't I don't think everybody heard that south korea sends more missionaries into the us than the us sends to south korea Brazil sends almost as many missionaries into the us as the us sends to brazil Just yeah like anthony your eyebrows that was me all night last night going Lord Have we missed your kingship? In the midst of all of this other stuff that's going on Have we missed? That you were you were the king on palm sunday now the cheers of of palm sunday turned into the jeers of good friday I don't want to lie But the reason for that is jesus came to establish his kingdom in a way that those people didn't get so 42 43 44 fulfilled by the romans in ad 70 So let me give you your takeaway. Let's bring this in for a landing Jesus intentionally fulfills messianic prophecy revealing himself as the king the messiah king of the jesus Jesus intentionally fulfills whether he knew about the cult Through his divine mind prophetically knew it was there or whether he knew about the cult in his earthly mind because he had arranged it That detail doesn't matter the fact is he sent his disciples to get the cult and bring it here to fulfill zechariah 99 that he would be becoming king of the jews and replace the false king judas maccabeus from 175 years before Jesus intentionally fulfills messianic prophecy Revealing himself as the messiah king of the jews. Here's the second half Christians today Should recognize jesus not just as our savior But that he is also our king And I think a lot of the modern day christians struggle with this because At least in my case, right i'm not gonna speak for anybody else. I'll just throw myself under the bus I was raised in a nation where christianity was always openly celebrated Right. I mean I got christmas all in public school I got christmas all I went to church on sundays. I went to church on wednesdays the whole felt board thing when I was a kid I was raised in a country where christian holidays are nationally recognized holidays So I got this idea That my faith and my national identity are mixed together Well, I read a report last night. I couldn't sleep. I was up in the middle night I'm sorry my brain works that way two o'clock in the morning I'm reading pew research stats while my wife is sleeping next to me and um I came across a really interesting one Millennials so millennials are those born After 1981 all the way up to I think 1996 or 97 Millennials are the first generation of americans In I think at least a hundred or more years Where 51 percent of them are not christian? So let me say that again Millennial generation so not our youngest guys, right? So you guys are you guys are gen z you're below that but the millennial generation the people who are just below me The ones who are in their 20s and 30s today 51 percent or greater of millennials are non-christian that has not happened in the last hundred or more years of our country Christianity had its highest rise in the late 70s anybody seen the movie the jesus revolution, right? Okay I haven't seen it yet. Don't spoil it, but I heard it's amazing So the jesus revolution tells of that moment in the 70s when christianity had a revival and went through our country That was the highest percentage of christianity in america in the last hundred or more years in the 1970s Greater than 70 percent of americans were christians Today that number has fallen into the 60s in another 10 or 15 years It's going to hit the 50s and another 10 or 15 years. It's going to go below 50 That is the projection from the stat math smart people that I don't know But the millennial generation those who are in their 20s and 30s today 51 percent or greater of them are not Christians so if you're a christian like me and you've grown up in this country and then you've seen this country change. That's why because from 1970 until today Christianity has been on decline and the single fastest group in our demographic are the nuns meaning I have no religious affiliation not none like where I have it not sister act none, but nuns as in I have no direct religious affiliation More people than ever in the history of our country no longer attend church regularly More people in the history of our country have never read a bible before You know you guys were here when I baptized my good friend connor just a few weeks ago He's a 20 year old young man who's grown up in america and who have never read and owned a bible before a few weeks ago When we opened it up, I had to explain to him what chapters and verse notations are this is the country in which we live This is the country that needs to know who king is Regardless of who the president is. I don't care how you vote. I don't want to know And here's the cool thing no matter how you vote. Jesus is still king No matter who wins the election. Jesus is still king no matter what laws get passed. Jesus is still king But all too often all too often We call ourselves American Christians my wife showed me a really cool Video for instagram where a pastor waxed on this idea So I can't take credit for it, but i'm gonna preach it like it's mine anyway, because it was madly good So when we call ourselves American Christians or Jewish Christians or black Christians or white Christians or italian Christians Anytime you put an adjective before a noun, what does it do the adjective? Changes the description of the noun So anytime you put the word american before christian, you're only experiencing your christianity through your american citizenship That's putting the constitution over the bible putting the president over the king If we could just turn it around and just be christians who live in america Versus christians who live in brazil christians who live in europe christians who live in china christians who live in south america if jesus is king Then he'll tell us how to act he'll tell us who to love and he'll tell us how to care for our community and our society But if we get the message of palm sunday, right? Jesus did not come to start bloody revolution He came to save with his blood leading to salvation How many of you right now as you sit here? See jesus as your king don't raise your hand. Just ask yourself in your heart Is jesus the religious savior figure? Or he is he actually? The sovereign king figure in your heart. I have to admit that I was a pastor for years before I truly reflected on this issue But once I found it Once I huddled it in my heart and I thought to myself, okay Well, what if we were born in england, right? Like if you're born in england, they straight up have a royal family Is king charles still king charles when he goes to france? Yeah Is king charles still king charles if he came here to america to visit the white house? Yeah, still king charles if you were a british citizen and you traveled from london Down here to delaware to come to our church because we're that cool, right? If you traveled all the way from london to come here Is king charles still your king? Yes So here's my question If jesus announced himself as king on palm sunday 2000 years ago Do you live like he's your king or have you only ever considered him your savior? Because I would submit to you That it's just like king charles Being in france or being in another country. He's not currently in his earthly throne. That doesn't mean he doesn't hold the power It doesn't mean he doesn't hold the authority and it doesn't mean that our heavenly citizenship That I am a servant of the true king of kings Should guide our earthly citizenship This is as close I get to politics because it's still about jesus I think if jesus were king we'd all get along better I mean i'm just being perfectly honest since i'm the one with the mic. I think if jesus were truly king We wouldn't see the divisions in the church that we see We wouldn't need to see black and white we wouldn't need to see blue and red when when election season comes We wouldn't need to see confusion between gay and straight between trans and cis if jesus were king Everybody is his subject some of them recognize his authority And some have yet to discover their loving sovereign king But whether we recognize his kingship or not doesn't stop his sovereign authority Just as if and I I looked man just as if I could have a coin up here today That had jesus's face on one side and the palm branches on the other side You find one of those i'll take it i'll pay you for it, but I looked and I couldn't Is he your king today do you live your life with this as your constitution You go to matthew chapter five six and seven a sermon on the mount Jesus is giving the constitution of the kingdom the way people should live the way people should act do we represent our king Or is jesus just really the savior that we worship on sundays don't get me wrong. He is the savior Don't take don't don't get it missed. I'm not lessening his saviorhood or his messiahship He is still the jewish messiah, but today he should be your king He deserves your not only your worship but your submission Because his throne he is sitting on his throne right now If my king were to come back right now, you better believe I bow my name say boss where we go And if for some reason america were to fall like rome. I mean rome controlled the world for a thousand years And the roman the roman throne eventually fell Doesn't stop jesus from being king So do me a favor if you're in the room I even need you to pull out your phone or the connect card that's in the chair in the back in front of you If you want to get to the connect card quickly, you can just scan the qr code That's on the front of the handout that you were given on the way in If you are joining us online, you can go to catalyst302.com Here is my engagement question for you today Is jesus your king Is jesus your king Or is he just your savior do you live like you are beholden to a sovereign righteous holy forgiving king Who watches every detail of your life? Who has called you to be a citizen of his kingdom or do we just live like we worship a jesus who saved us from hell? He did do that, but he did more than that That's what palm sunny is all about. By the way, I totally forgot adhd moment the cloaks on the ground They were the submission to his kingly authority That's why luke included the robes, but not the palm branches luke said absolutely you're my king. Here's my coat I will put myself underneath your authority That's the robe Is your robe underneath of jesus's authority today or is he just the savior who saves you from sin?