Good morning, Catalyst! Good morning! Wow, it's awesome to have everybody awake this morning. Well, welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Whether this is your first time worshiping with us on campus or you're joining us online, thank you for being a part of the Catalyst community. Here at Catalyst, we're about one thing and one thing only. Relentlessly loving people to life change. And one of the ways that we change our lives to be more like Jesus is studying His Word together. So we're going to continue doing that this morning. I'm going to continue in a series entitled, Parables, The Stories of the Savior. Now each of the series, when I bring it to you, is going to have a singular key thought that kind of helps everything go together. The key thought for this series is Jesus used stories to teach lessons. Jesus used stories to teach lessons. And that's super important to remember because on one hand we're going to read a story, and that's good. And the story is going to have characters. It's going to have setting. It's going to have meaning. But then we have to take it a step farther. We don't want to just learn about the story. We also want to learn about the lesson that Jesus is teaching through the story. So I want you to get that. The key thought is Jesus used stories to teach lessons. Now this particular sermon this morning is entitled, The Unforgiving Servant. So if you brought your Bibles, whether they're physical or digital, turn or tap with me to the Gospel of Matthew, Chapter 18. Matthew's going to be really easy to find. It's the first Gospel in the New Testament. The 18th chapter is right after the first 17 ones, so that should be pretty easy. Matthew, Chapter 18. We're going to read verses 21 to 35. Then we're going to go back and we're going to walk through this together. So again, this is the parable of the unforgiving servant, Matthew, Chapter 18. I'll start reading in verse 21. And some people have asked, what Bible do I usually read through on Sundays? I'm reading in the NIV this morning. So here is Matthew 18 beginning in verse 21. Then Peter came to Jesus and asked, Lord, okay, how many times shall I forgive my brother or sister who sins against me? Up to seven times? And Jesus answered, I tell you not seven times, but 77 times. Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. As he began the settlement, a man who owed him 10,000 bags of gold was brought to him. Since he was not able to pay, the master ordered that he and his wife and his children and all that he had be sold to repay the debt. At this, the servant fell on his knees before him. Be patient with me, he begged. I will pay back everything. The servant's master took pity on him. He canceled the debt and let him go. But there's always a but, right? There's always a but in the middle of a good Jesus story. But when the servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him 100 silver coins. He grabbed him and he began to choke him. Pay back what you owe me, he demanded. His fellow servant fell on his knees and begged him, be patient with me. He had to choke first, right? So be patient with me and I will pay it back. See, you got to put some life into the scripture when we read it. But he refused. Instead, he went off and he had the man thrown into prison until he could repay the debt. Now when the other servants saw what had happened, they were outraged and they went and they told their master everything that had happened. Then the master called the servant in. You wicked and lazy servant, he said. I canceled all that debt of yours because you begged me. Shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servant just as I had on you? 34. In his anger, the master handed him over to the jailers to be tortured until he should pay back all that he owed. This is how my heavenly father will treat each of you unless you forgive your brother or sister from your heart. So now, let's go back to verse 21 and now let's unpack this story a little bit and see what Jesus is teaching. So first we need to see, then Peter came to Jesus. Okay, all you Bible studyers in the room, what does that mean? Then Peter came to Jesus. It means something happened, right? We're jumping into the middle of the story. If you rewind a few verses and read, you will notice that there's already a conversation going on about how to forgive, how to forgive people. So Peter comes to Jesus and he says, Lord, again there's that word, one who has authority over me, commanding officer, how many times shall I forgive my brother or sister who sins against me? Up to seven times. So first we need to understand, Jesus said, oh, this is in response to Jesus already previously teaching on forgiveness. And Peter wants a limit. I like Peter. Peter is like my favorite, he is the ADHD disciple in the first century. Peter is the redneck fisherman from Nazareth and he comes to Jesus and he's like, all right, okay, Jesus, these people be testing. Just how many times I got to forgive him? Just give me a number and I'll be fine. This is Peter's attitude at this point. What he's looking for is the limit. When someone offends me, when someone hurts me. What he's really asking is, dude, how long do I have to put up with this person before I can write them off? Right? That's what he's saying. He's saying, how many times do I have to forgive? Tell me, Jesus, where's the limit that I'm allowed to say do this and not touch that person anymore? That's his motivation, right? So here's your motivation. Peter wants to know how many times till I'm justified in not forgiving anymore? But he specifically says to forgive my brother or sister. Here's the first little theological puzzle that you and I will have to unravel this morning. So the word brother or sister in the original Greek is Adelphoi or Adelphos. And what it means once we get into the New Testament is it's the word most commonly used to describe other Christians, other believers, right? Because we are one in the body of Christ, we're all brothers and sisters in the kingdom of God. Now, does Peter, when he's addressing the earthly Jesus, understand the way Paul would use that word later in his writings? No, I don't think so. Because he's not omniscient and omnipresent the way God is. But thankfully, the Holy Spirit is the author of scripture. So when the Holy Spirit inspired Matthew to write the book, right? So remember, we're reading about events that happened during the life of Jesus, but we're reading the Gospel of Matthew, which wasn't penned until years after Jesus' death. So when the Holy Spirit employs Matthew to use this word, which is commonly referred to as other Christians, what's the Holy Spirit saying through us? Well, the Holy Spirit is saying something that I don't think Peter would have understood in his day if that was indeed the word that Peter used. Because remember, we're reading the Holy Spirit inspired Matthew account of this conversation. So when he says, forgive my brother or sister, I'm going to go ahead and say that if we look at the orders that the Gospels are written, we're going to go ahead and put Mark in the late 40s, early 50s. We're going to put Matthew, Luke in the probably late 50s. So let's call it 57, because Heinz is a good number. And then let's say Jesus rose in 33. So we're reading a book that has been written less than 25 years after the resurrection of Jesus. We're reading a book written and read by people who understood what it meant to be a brother or sister in Christ. So I don't want you to misinterpret what Peter's original question is. He is saying, how many times do I have to forgive a fellow Christian before I can write them off? That is what he is asking. And he is asking the Savior to give him a numerical limit to forgiveness for other Christians. That's what that word brother or sister. And then he specifically says, when they sin against me. Now here's the next theological key that you need to this passage. When we sin against God, who is the offender? Us, right? This was the interactive question. So let's try that again. When we sin against God, who is the offender? Us. Right, right. Who is the offended party? God. Right. But Peter says, when people sin against me. So Peter is not talking about sin in the God human sense of the word. Peter is saying, how much times, how many times, how much times, right? I'm super good at my English. So Jesus, how much times I got to forgive somebody before I no longer need to be friends? That's what he's saying. We are talking about offenses at the human level. How many times do I have to forgive another person when they sin against me? That one's hard. Because now all of a sudden, who's the offended party? I'm the offended party. Who's the offender? One of y'all. Yeah. All of a sudden, this whole conversation with Jesus and Peter just got a whole lot more real. Because now we're talking about how many times do you have to forgive the person sitting next to you, the aisle in front of you, the aisle behind you, the person over there, the person in your C group, the person who comes to CR, the person on the worship team? How many times do I have to forgive somebody else in my church family before I'm justified in never being in relationship with them again? We got really deep, really quick today. Alright. Let's try it. Let's go for verse 22, okay? So, 21. Now we have an unders... Oh, one more thing at the end of 21. He asks seven times. Isn't it odd? He has like a very super specific number. That number comes from rabbinic teaching in the first century. Rabbis would say, after you forgave someone seven times, you're absolved. You don't have to forgive them anymore. So Peter is looking for the limit and Jesus replies with 70 times 7 or 77. What Jesus is really saying is there is no limit. Right? So the rabbis are saying it's seven times. You're super holy if you forgive someone seven times. What Jesus is saying is, no, no, no, no, no. I want you to take that limit upon that limit, upon that limit, upon that 70 times 7. He's illustrating that there is no limit to human forgiveness. Right? That's what he's saying. Now verse 22. Jesus answered. So, in order to answer Peter's question about how many times I have to forgive a Christian before I can write them off and not be friends with them anymore, we get a parable. Here it comes. 22. I tell you not 70 times 7 but 77 times 23. Therefore, therefore meaning I'm not going to illustrate my point with this cool story that I just made up to teach you a lesson. Therefore the kingdom of heaven. What is the kingdom of heaven? The kingdom of heaven is all who are under God's rule. God's authority. Now, in the New Testament, we can look back to the Old Testament when Israel was an actual nation. They had an actual king. They had David. They had Solomon. They had Saul. They built a temple. They went to war. Then they went into exile. Then they got sent home. Then all of a sudden there's some quiet years with the Greeks and the Romans. Then there's John the Baptist. Then there's Jesus. And now, is Jesus king? Oh, okay. Well, let's try that one again. Make sure everybody's awake. Is Jesus king? Yes. Where is Jesus' kingdom? Everywhere. Okay. I like the everywhere. Jesus' kingdom is everything he rules over. Where is Jesus ruling from? In heaven. But where is his authority ruling? Everywhere. Totos. Everything. Jesus is in charge of everything. You and I live as members of his kingdom. Now the weird part for us is his kingdom's not here on earth like it was in the Old Testament with David and Saul and, you know, David and Goliath. We don't have a physical kingdom yet. Depending on your interpretation of the book of Revelation will determine whether you see Jesus' kingdom as ruling back on earth or whether it's just a spiritual kingdom. That could be another sermon series for another day. But I need you to understand when Jesus says the kingdom of heaven, he's saying all subjects under my rule. Anybody who is under his authority is like a king. So who's the king? Jesus. Jesus. Who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. Wow, that sounds eerily familiar, doesn't it? He wanted to settle accounts with his servants. Verse 24. As he began the settlement, a man who owed him 10,000 bags of gold. 10,000. Does anybody's Bible, just by show of hands, does anybody's Bible say talent? 10,000 talents. Okay, great. Does anybody's Bible actually have the numerical value of how much that would be worth in today's money? Okay. What is it? Millions. Yes. 20 years worth or millions. In fact, I did a recent calculation based on the weight of gold and it was actually in the billions. So the idea here is an incalculable debt, right? The amount of debt. Just, Jesus, how did you let someone get billions of dollars in debt? You know what I mean? Like as a person. We're not talking about a nation. We're talking about a single dude who owed his king billions of dollars, right? So let's just say for instance, that has already happened because in Jesus' story, this guy already walks in with it. Basically think about it this way. A debt that is so large, you could never pay it off if you worked for the rest of your life. That's the understanding that Jesus' first century audience, which at this point is basically Peter, right? What's Peter's profession? He's a fisherman, right? Right? Well, he is ADHD but that's just his personality. His profession is that he's a fisherman. So when this servant owes the king 10,000 bags of gold, 10,000 talents, billions of dollars in incalculable debt. So obviously verse 25, since he was not able to pay, can you just imagine if you owed Jesus 10 billion dollars and then he shows up tomorrow? He says, hey Megan, how about that change that you owe me? Like are we good? Can you just, you know, just break out the wallet and just start handing out billion dollar bills? I don't even know how you repay a billion dollars. But that's the position that this first servant finds himself in. As he began this, or in the next verse, verse 25, since he was not able to pay, the servant knows, I'm in over my head. I can't pay this debt back. The master ordered his wife, his children, and all he had be sold to repay the debt. Now this sounds pretty harsh for us in America in 2022. It's not really harsh for the first century. They're not being sold and so now I need to make, I need to make a point here. So I'm going to take a drink of water to make sure I make that point well enough. When you read, no we had a bounce problem last time so we're going to put that lid back on. When you read about slavery in the Bible, here's what I need you to understand. Slavery in the Bible is nothing like slavery in the history of our country. When you read the word slavery, I want you to hear indentured servant, which we did also have in the people who helped found this country. They sold themselves as servants for X number of years in order to be brought to this land in order to then have land. So when the master wants to sell the wife and children, he is not selling them to another foreign country to be starved, whipped, and beaten in the way we think about American anti-bellum slavery. That is a scar on our nation. It is not the context of this passage. This passage happened in the first century, long before America was ever a thought in somebody's mind. So when we're saying sold, what are we saying? Think about a day laborer being sold into a workhouse. Being sold into somewhere where you would work every single day but you wouldn't actually earn the money that you worked for. That money would go to the debt that you had. In like Elizabethan England, they could have called it the workhouse, right? So I'm a dork just in case anybody, if you're new here, hi I'm Bill, I'm a geek. I like Sherlock Holmes. I love reading Sherlock Holmes books. And in that time, in that history, they had debtors prison, right? So what was debtors prison? You didn't throw somebody in a cell because being locked in a cell doesn't make money. I send you somewhere and you work and then they pay me for sending you there. That's what we mean when we say to sell his wife, his children, and all that he had. Now, he did straight up liquidate all of your possessions. Your house, your couch. Mr. Paul's super sweet IMAQ. We're going to sell all of that to pay off the debt, right? We get to 26. At this, at the thought of his entire world being sold and him and his family being made to work for free, i.e. slaves in a debtors prison, he falls on his knees before him and begs. He said, be patient with me. I will pay everything back. Now, here's what's interesting about the way Jesus has created this character that is the first servant. The first servant owes more money than he could possibly earn in a lifetime and yet is trying to tell Jesus, oh, no, no, look, I will pay back everything. This guy is so sold on his own ability to fix his problems that he's not asking. All he's asking, you notice he's not asking for forgiveness. He's not asking for mercy. He's not asking for, oh, Jesus, I'm so sorry. I just don't have the 10 billion. Would you mind just like put it on my tab and write it off? No, he says, just be patient. I'll be good for it. I can work for it. I will pay you back. It's the master who responds in 27. The master took pity on him. He canceled the debt. Now we have to talk. Yeah, just take that in for a minute. Now we have to talk about debt. When you owe someone something, who has the right to cancel a debt? The one you owe. Who doesn't have the right to cancel the debt? The person who owes, right? If you could cancel your own debts, your credit card bills would be a whole lot easier. When you are a debtor who owes someone else, they are in control, right? They set the payment schedule. They set the interest rate, something in our society we know well. So it's the one who is owed, the one who is wrong, the one who is offended that's in control of the debt. So the master says, you know what? What's 10 billion between friends? It's okay, you're forgiven. That's an amazing amount of mercy. Remember, Jesus set up the debt so that it's something you could never earn in an entire lifetime of working. And the master is like, I got more. I'm okay. Obviously Jesus' point in the master is the master is incredibly loving. The master is incredibly gracious. And the master owns so much, has so much that he doesn't need to bother with this one servant's 10 billion dollars. Verse 28, but when the servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him 100 silver coins. Now do you notice the difference? 10,000 bags of gold, 100 silver coins. You notice how one is a reasonable debt and the other is an incalculable debt. That's the point of the story. The first debt is incalculable. The second debt is somewhat reasonable among friends. But when that servant went out, he found a fellow servant. Now we're talking about another person, not the master. Somebody else who's also a servant of the master who owed him a couple hundred silver coins. He grabbed him, he began to choke him and he said, pay back what you owe me. Brother got violent really quick. Now why? Just pause for a second and ask yourself, why does the first servant respond this way to the fellow servant? Well that's also true. Totally true, bro. Like I'm going to give you that. He totally does. Those of you who are new to catalysts, you will thank my son for the comedic intervention pretty much every Sunday. I think, Micah, I don't think you're wrong. But I don't think you're wrong, but I don't think that's a word I'm allowed to say live on the internet at church. So what I will say is this. I think the first servant is trying to do what he told the master he would do. He's trying to work off the debt and he's doing it by just becoming like this violent collector of money, right? So he's become a mob enforcer and he's just going to stop everybody to get whatever money he can. Why? Because he owes the debt. He has not accepted the forgiveness the master already offered in the previous verse. He's decided that he knows better and he's going to work on it himself. So he's going to go out and mistreat people and harm them in order to try to drag every last ounce of money out of them in order to pay back the debt. Pay back what you owe me, he demanded. End of 28, 29. His fellow servant fell on his knees and begged him, be patient with me and I will pay him back. Notice the second servant has the exact same lines as the first servant. Is this an accident? No, I don't think so. Jesus himself is telling the story. Jesus himself is telling the parable the way he needs it to get to the actual lesson. So the second servant, the one who owed the smaller debt says, just be patient with me. I will pay it back. It's another appeal for works based earning. Verse 30, but he refused. So here's the first servant. He refused and instead he went off and had the man thrown into prison until he could pay the debt. Remember workhouse, debtor's prison, workhouse. The first servant forgot about the forgiveness and just went off on his own track and he just starts throwing people into debtor's prison to try to get all of this money back. Verse 31, when the other servants. So now here's the third category. First servant, second servant, other servants. So do you notice that there's not only two servants in the kingdom in this parable. There are people who are observing the actions of the first two servants. So the other servants saw what has happened and they were outraged. Why are they outraged? What did the first servant do that was wrong? He was forgiven but then didn't forgive others' debts. So they're outraged. Why? Because I think they knew the forgiveness of the master. They were outraged. They went and told their master everything that happened. 32, then the master called the servant in, you wicked servant. That word wicked means evil. It means morally corrupt, morally bankrupt, morally wrong. You wicked servant, I canceled all that debt. The word in the Greek actually means an enormous or incalculable amount. I canceled your $10 billion debt because you begged me to. Shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had on you? To put it in our terms today, I canceled your $10 billion debt but you choked somebody out for 200 bucks. Does that make sense? I forgave you 10 billion and you choked somebody over 2 Bennies. I don't get it. What's the point? Shouldn't you... And you know what the master is really saying? Shouldn't you have just followed my example? I forgave you 10 bills and you couldn't emulate me. You're supposed to be my servant. 34, in anger. Now the master is peeved. In anger, his master handed him over to the jailers to be tortured until he should pay all back. Now remember, what's the jail? The jail's the workhouse, debtor's prison. So that word torture sounds an awful lot like the inquisition, the rack, the electric chair. Not exactly what the first century audience understood. You know why it's torture? Guess what the people had to do in the first century workhouse? Cut stones out of a mountainside. What did they build buildings with in the first century? Large pieces of stone. Guess how they got those big large pieces of stone? They cut them out of even bigger pieces. And then how'd they get there? They had to be carried or rolled on logs. This is what the debtor's prison people are doing. They're doing the jobs that no one else wants to do because it's hot, because it's sweaty, because we don't get our 15 minute break every 3 hours. I don't get to bring my lunch. My sardines went bad yesterday at lunchtime. My hummus is too warm. It's not good anymore. My pita bread's flat. This is what, so when you read the word torture in our English mentality, we think of someone causing pain for fun. The word torture, I want you to understand, it means being driven to do work that is exhausting. Now yes, if you were in the workhouse, if you were in the debtor's prison and you decided not to work, they would motivate you with pain in order to get it done. Think about a taskmaster with a whip. The Romans had no problem hurting people. They had made an art form out of excruciating pain. In fact, you know the word excruciating? You know where it comes from? The Latin excrucio or out of the cross. Who invented the cross? The Romans. They are great at hurting people. So when you see the word torture, don't, because just ask yourself a simple question. If we were to strap somebody down to a table and waterboard them, how does that make money? Unless people are going to pay for the opportunity to waterboard people. In which case, we need a prayer meeting and not a parable. So how do we make money? Well we make money because I send people to the workhouse and they have to do the work that no one wants to do which is why the only reason they are doing it is to not get whipped. That's where the torture part comes in. So now we are going to take the guy who owed the $10 billion debt and we are going to send him down to the quarry. Remember, his debt was so much that he couldn't pay it off in the rest of his life. So where is he going to spend the rest of his life? Cutting rocks and getting his back whipped down at the quarry because he didn't accept forgiveness. Verse 35, this is how my heavenly father will treat each of you unless you forgive your brother and sister. Now remember, what was Peter's original question? Jesus, what's the limit to the amount of times I have to forgive a fellow Christian before I can write them off? What's Jesus' answer? No, no, no. The 77 is an allegory which meant there is no answer. The answer is the parable. The debt the first servant owed was incalculable. You could never pay it back for the rest of your life. So don't think that once you, like somebody starts counting and they say, but Pastor Beal, after 78 I can tell them I don't like them no more. No, you don't get to 78. The answer was, in their first century Jewish terms, unending. You could never forgive enough. But why? Here's the why. The why is because of the parable. The why is because when the master forgives a debt that is so large no human could ever owe you what the master's already forgiven, you really don't have any place to hold on to your own personal unforgiveness anymore. That's where Jesus is going with this parable. So let me show you how do we understand this parable. I got four points I want you to see. The first is this. The context is forgiving others who have offended us. Right? Show of hands. How many people have ever in their lifetime been offended at another human? I'm just saying. Okay, hands down. Anybody who didn't raise your hand we need to pray afterwards because you are self-deluded. Right? Everybody's been through it so let's just be honest. Let's just take the icky and the uncomfortable away and be like, yes, pastor, I know what it means to be offended. Guess what? I know what it means to be offended. I haven't been here long enough to be offended at you all but eventually that will happen too. Right? The more you spend time in close proximity the more we eventually rub shoulders. I would almost argue that if we're going to take the iron sharpens iron analogy correctly, guess what? Iron doesn't sharpen iron without heat, sparks, and friction. But the end result is better than the start. You're sharper because of the process. So the context is forgiving others who have offended us. The focus, so that's the context, forgiving others, the focus is understanding the size of our debt to God. Here's what I need you to understand. And please do not raise your hand at this next moment. Any of you who are struggling with offense towards another human being, the key to getting over your struggle is understanding how much debt you have to God. Here's the key. If you truly understood the incalculable nature of how offensive our sin is to our holy God, you would put it in perspective and see how small and insignificant my offense to my brother or sister really is. So let's keep going. The story, number three, the story is about a servant who didn't understand forgiveness. That's going to be you and me today. But the lesson is the master expects us to forgive others because we have already been forgiven of more than we could ever repay. So now let me bring it full circle. The debt that the first servant owed was a debt that could never be worked off, a debt that was more than a lifetime's worth of wages. So if you've never understood why people choose to worship Jesus, let me give it to you in one sentence. Jesus's forgiveness is more than I could ever earn in my lifetime. I could never work enough to earn the forgiveness for the debt that I owe for my sins. But when you minimize, here we go. All right, everybody put your seatbelt on. This one's going to sting. When you minimize how ugly the sin is in your life, you maximize other people's offenses. When you realize how nasty and ugly and disgusting our sin is in relation to our holy God, all of a sudden these small offenses with my friends and my brothers and sisters become a whole lot easier to forgive because I've already been forgiven the $10 billion debt. Bro, I'm good for a couple hundred. You're good. You and I are good. That's the point of the parable. The question was asked, hey, Jesus, where's the limit on forgiveness? The answer is if you truly understood how much Christ has forgiven you, you would never ask the question. You would never ask Jesus, when can I write that person off? Because you would immediately turn around and the Savior would be standing there and saying, but I never treated you that way. That's the problem, right? The sermon is supposed to reflect the master. Well guess what? Your master has already forgiven you and me. I'm in this category. Already forgiven us of more than we could ever earn. That's why in Christian theology, salvation has to come by faith because there's not enough work for us to work it off. There's not enough time for me to do good stuff in order to be forgiven. That's the number one thing that makes Christianity different than all of the other world's religions. All of the other world's religions treat human beings like you're on a scale. And when you do bad stuff, the scale goes up this way. When you do good stuff, the scale goes up this way. And just hope by the end of your life, the scales are equal. Jesus has a completely different approach to forgiveness. He says, Bill, your bad stuff's way up here. And then he takes the small little end of his pinky and he puts it on the scale and he says, forgiven. It's done. The point of the gospel is that today you and I have the opportunity to recognize that we have been forgiven of more than we will ever be able to do in our life, which is why we have to forgive others. Thank you. If you are not sure how much you've been forgiven of, that's where we start. If you are sure that your sins have been forgiven, then I got to give you the ugly truth of this parable. You have no right to hold offenses at another believer for the rest of your life. Just let that one float by you and hit the person in the road behind you. That's the real truth of this parable. If we truly understood the love of God, we would love people to life change. Right? I mean, it's on the wall out back. We say it every time we come to church. If you don't understand how much you've been loved, you don't understand the level to which we should love others. That's the parable of the unforgiving servant. So I have 2 questions. So this is what I want you to do. Right now, I want everybody to pull out your cell phone. Everybody do me a favor. It's okay. So you're allowed to use your phones in church. I promise. Jesus is not judging your Instagram history. Okay? So just pull out your phone. I want everybody to go to catalyst302.com. If you happen to be joining us online and you're watching on your phone, you can go ahead and I believe there's a link in the description. Yep. And I want you to go to catalyst302.com and I want you to click the next step button. Now in a few weeks, this is also how we're going to take attendance. So that's why I'm trying to help you get used to how this process is going to work. You go to catalyst302.com, you click the next steps button, then you fill in your name, your email address. If you're joining us online, you know what? message after Sunday morning. You can still use this tool 7 days a week and it'll still let us know how we can help you grow. So I want you to put in your name, I want you to put in your email and then here's what I want to ask. If you do not understand the debt you owe to God for your sin, then I want you to click the first one that says, my next step today is I want to surrender to Christ. It doesn't mean you're not a Christian, but it means we need to have a conversation about how our sin is viewed by God so we can understand. If you know for sure that you have already been forgiven of that incalculable debt, that $10 billion sin debt that my sin racked up for me, then the next question is, do you hold offenses against any other believer? Because you are now unjustified. If you've been truly forgiven of all, you can't hold offenses. And then you can see there at the bottom, I added one more thing at the end. It says, I'm interested in a ministry for, it says men, it says women, it says young adults, it says youth, just let us know. Because in a minute my wife's going to come up here, she's going to talk to you about two new ministries that are getting restarted in our church and how excited we are for them. So here's what I want to do. Whether you're watching online or whether you're sitting here on campus, I want you to fill out this card digitally on the website and then I want you to click submit. So what's going to happen when you do that? I'm going to take them and post them on the church's Twitter feed. No, but to be perfectly honest, that's what everybody wonders, right? When you fill out a form online, where does my information go? Your information goes to my inbox. It sends me an email. In a few weeks, it's also going to be able to track attendance so we can know who comes to church and how often. But right now, when you hit the submit button, it's going to come right to my inbox. It is still personal communication between you and me. You can put whatever you need to in that space and it comes to me. And you can already ask some of the people who are here sitting in here this morning. I email every week out when I get these emails. People ask questions. I respond. We start having great conversations. Somebody says, hey, pastor, I didn't really understand blah, blah, blah. And I can try to explain it. This is how it gives me an opportunity to minister to you individually. Right up here, I'm with a microphone, a megaphone. I'm talking to the entire group at one time. But when you fill out that next step card, it allows me to talk to just you and you to talk to just me. So even if you're watching online or you're watching after the fact, please do this. Take a next step. So first, I want to close in prayer. And then I'm going to ask my wife to join me up here. We got two big announces. Heavenly Father, I thank you that your forgiveness is unending and everlasting. Jesus, I thank you that we have been forgiven of more than we could ever work off. Jesus, help us to remember how great our debt is to you. And Holy Spirit, speak to our hearts. Some of us today are struggling to forgive the offenses that others have made against us. Warm our hearts with your love and your grace and help us to get out from under and forgive their debt to us. In Jesus' name, Amen.