Father we are just in awe of you every day God. Where the light shines the darkness has no chance and we are just so thankful that we get to live our lives knowing that the darkness has no chance God. Lord we ask that you would cover this sermon, cover this teaching with the blood of Christ and that it will be applied to our lives and that we will have a safe and healthy week. In Jesus name, God's people said. Well good morning and welcome to catalyst. See let's try it again, a couple people weren't awake yet, even after all that amazing worship. Let's make sure we're awake. Good morning and welcome to catalyst. See there we go now everybody's awake. My name is Bill, thank you so much for being here today. Here at catalyst we are about one thing and one thing only and that is relentlessly loving people to life change. Now that's a two step process. A, we got to love people. That means we got to love people where they're at, wherever they're at, whenever they're at. Sometimes loving people means loving things that are great and sometimes loving people means loving people that aren't so great. But the purpose of our love is not just to love people where they're at, not just to leave them where they're at. But so that our love as a community and as individuals brings people further into life change in Jesus. Amen. That's our goal is life change. And one of the ways that we change the way we live to be more like Jesus is by studying his word together. So if you brought your Bibles with you this morning, please do me a favor and open them to the gospel of Matthew. As we continue walking through the teaching series, the parables, stories of the Savior. Now every time we look at a parable, I want to go ahead and give you the key thought that's going to wrap all of this together. And it's very simple. Jesus used stories to teach lessons. Jesus used stories. Come here phone. Jesus used stories to teach lessons. Now, the reason that that's important is because we have to understand each time we come to a parable, we're looking at a story. We're not looking at a specific historical event as much as we are looking at Jesus teaching us something through the story. So when we look at the story, we want to understand the story. But then we want to go deeper. We don't want to just look at the story and and catch the characters in the setting and all that super fun and great. But then we need to take it one step further. We need to learn the story. Then we need to learn the lesson. So the title of this morning's message and good morning, I forgot to welcome all of you joining us online. Thank you for being a part of our church. I'm going to give this title a slightly different title than you may have heard it before. I'm going to call it the parable of the three servants. If you turn with me in Matthew chapter twenty five verse fourteen, Matthew twenty five verse fourteen, your Bible may call it the parable of the talents. It can call it the parable of the stewards. There's a couple different titles. I'm going with the parable of the three servants this morning. And hopefully by the time we get into it, my title will at least make a little bit of sense. I'll try to make a little bit of sense this morning. So first, let's go ahead and look at the text. Matthew chapter twenty five. I'm going to read verses fourteen to thirty. Then we're going to go back. We're going to cut it up. We're going to walk through it verse by verse. So this is Matthew twenty five starting in verse fourteen. Again, it will be like a man going on a journey who called his servants and entrusted his wealth to them. To one, he gave five bags of gold to another two and to another one bag, each according to his ability. Then he went on his journey. The man who had received the five bags of gold went at once and put his money to work and gained five more. Also, the one who had the two bags of gold gained two more. But the man would received one bag, went off, dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money. Now, after a long time, the master of those servants returned and settled accounts with them. The man who had received five bags of gold brought another five master. He said, you have entrusted me with five bags of gold. See, I have gained five more. His master said or replied, well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share your master's happiness. Verse 22, the man with the two bags of gold also came. Master, he said, you entrusted me with two bags of gold. See, I have gained two more. His master replied, well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share your master's happiness. Then the man who had received one bag of gold came. Master, he said, I knew that you are a hard man, harvesting where you have not sown and gathering where you have not scattered seed. So I was afraid. I went out and hid your gold in the ground. See, here is what belongs to you. His master replied, you wicked, lazy servant. You knew that I harvested where I had not sown and gathered where I had not scattered seed. Well, then you should have put my money on deposit with the bankers so that when I returned, I would have received it back with interest. So take the bag of gold from him and give it to the one who has ten bags. Verse 29, whoever has will be given more and they will have in abundance. Whoever does not have, even what they have will be taken from them and throw that worthless servant outside into darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Now that's the passage. Now let's go back and now I want us to walk through it. So first at verse 14. Verse 14 begins with a word, again. That's a big word. It's a really important word. You know why? Because that lets us know that this is not the beginning of Jesus' teaching. Jesus is saying, oh yeah, let me say one more thing. Hey, about that thing I just said about, let me make another point. So when we see the word again in the text, the very first thing we have to do is stop and ask ourselves a question. Well, what came first? If Jesus is saying again, that means that this entire parable should not stand on its own. And here's where I think most people miss the boat. Context, context, context. Jesus is not speaking in a vacuum. I know a lot of times, especially in the New Testament church, we live in the time of Acts, we have the Holy Spirit. We're tempted to just crack open the pages of the Bible, jump right into a story, and apply it to us immediately. That word again needs to be a giant stop sign, a huge speed bump that says, wait a minute, what's the context here? Well, I did a little bit of digging. The context of this parable is in a much larger section on Jesus' teaching about the end times. Now, if you have your Bibles with me, we're going to flip around a little bit. Go back to Matthew 24, verse 1. In Matthew 24, verses 1 through 35, and I'm not going to read them all, so trust me, I promise, we're going to get to lunch, okay? I'm not going to read them all, but in Matthew 24, verses 1 through 35, Jesus is describing the destruction of the temple. He's also describing the end times. Then in Matthew 24, 36 to 51, Jesus is talking about the suddenness or how fast the coming of the end times is going to be. Then you flip into chapter 25. In chapter 25, verses 1 through 13, we find the parable of the 10 virgins. Now, that parable largely teaches we have to be ready, right? So 24, right? Chapter 24, Jesus is all about the end times, right? Then chapter 25, he delivers three parables, all related to the context of chapter 24, which is end times. So 25, 1 through 13, the parable of the 10 virgins teaches us we have to be ready for his return. 25, 14 to 30, which is where we're at, the parable of the three servants, it's going to teach us how we are to be in the getting ready part. And then 25, 31 to 46 is the sheep and goats. That's what happens when the end times get here. So do you see how when you just telescope back, just a little, I didn't go super far. My standard rule of thumb, whenever I'm studying a passage, I go two chapters to the front, I go two chapters to the back, and I try to get the bird's eye view. Because I'm ADHD, I got blinders on. You can ask my wife, when I'm doing one thing, if she asks me to do another thing, the first thing gets forgotten, because now I'm only thinking about the next thing. So I have to intentionally widen my gaze and look a little bigger. So now that we understand the context, Jesus is talking about the end times. He is talking about what's going to happen when things come. I get it, baby, it's hard. It's fine. I also want to say hello and good morning to all the kids who are with us today. I'm super glad, everybody, just all the kids, adults, you be quiet. All the kids, clap, go. See, thank you. That is the sound of a church that grows. All the pitter patter of the feet in the hallway and all the giggling, and anybody that needs to talk or cry or drop a toy on the floor while I'm preaching, that's the sound of a church that knows what it means to love kids. So we're all just going to have some fun with it. So verse 14, again, big word, tells us that Jesus is still talking about the end times. And then he says, it will be like, well, what will be like? Well, now I get it. The end times, when the return of Jesus happens, it will be like. So that is the proper understanding of this parable. It will be like a man going on a journey. Well, now that I get the context, now I get who the man is, right? So the context helps me to look with the right lens, helps me to understand, well, who's the man? The man's going to be Jesus. The man's going on a journey, implying that there is going to be a time where the master of the ground is here, then the master of the ground leaves, and then the master of the ground returns. Well, now that I understand the context is Jesus, how do I understand his journey? Well, his journey is the time after his earthly ministry, which includes his death, resurrection. And in case you didn't know, Jesus taught for 40 more days after Easter Sunday before returning to heaven. You know what I think is super cool? There's nothing at all in recorded scripture of what Jesus said during those 40 days. None of his post-resurrection teachings are in the scriptures. I've got to be honest. If somebody claimed to be God, predicted his death, came back from the dead, I'm pretty sure I would listen to whatever that joker had to say. You know, when someone claims to be God, predicts their death, comes back from the dead, and says, Thomas, here, feel the hole in my hand, in my side, evidence-based faith. I love that. There's good reasons to believe in Jesus. But here, the journey of the text is the time you and I are in right now. See, the master has gone away. Jesus ascended in Acts chapter 1. The Holy Spirit descended in Acts chapter 2. I know, I love that part, too. The Holy Spirit descends in Acts chapter 2. And now here we are, you and me and everybody else, in the journey context. The master's away right now. And then he calls his servants. Who are his servants? His servants is everybody who serves the master. I mean, do you see how the word servant is built around the verb to serve? How do you know if somebody's a servant if they serve? How do you know if somebody's not a servant if they don't? Like, it's a verb. It's a verb. So who are Jesus' servants? Well, in the parable, he's speaking directly to his servants at that time and in that moment. But for us today, it's me and you. We are the servants. And then he entrusted his wealth. Now, if I remember that everything else in verse 14 is a symbol of something, we've got to talk about the wealth. Because I'll be honest with you, I've heard lots of people teach, and it's called the parable of the talents, right? Okay, that doesn't mean you're earthly talents. A talent was actually a measurement of money in first century Rome. The problem with you and I as English speakers is we can get a little confused when we're talking about a talent. See, we don't have that problem with the word denarii. You know why? Because we don't use it in English. We don't have the problem with the word cubit because we don't measure it with them anymore. But the word talent, that's an English word. And so when you see the parable of the talents, you all of a sudden start thinking about the talents. Like our amazingly talented worship team who just led us in worship this morning. That's not what this parable is about. And you know how I know that? I'm a musician, right? I love to play. Am I supposed to believe that if I'm faithful or I'm a good servant, then when I get to heaven, God's going to give me more instruments to play? You see how that was? I've also heard people try to say that the wealth is the gospel. If we're good with the gospel, we'll follow it to the end of the parable. Does that mean we get more gospels? No, that doesn't make sense. I've also heard people say that the wealth is the word of God. I got to be like, whoa, does that mean Jesus is going to give us a new word of God when he returns? I thought the word of God stood forever. So understanding the wealth in the parable is key to the context. So what is the wealth? The wealth is not the gospel. It is not the word of God. It is not our individual skills and talents. Why? Because here's the big thing. The wealth is not the focus of the parable at all. It's the servants. That's why I titled this morning's message, The Parable of the Three Servants, not the parable of the talents. The wealth is merely a symbol of what is given to the servants, the people. Think about the parable that comes right before and right after it. The parable of the ten virgins is not called the parable of the ten lamps, even though that's what's in the virgin's hands. They're oil lamps. The parable of the sheep and goats. It's not talking about the parable of the farmland. It's about the sheep and the goats, which represent people. This parable is about people, not about stuff. This parable is about people, not about money, not about talent, not about skills, not about land, not about cars, not about clothes. It's about us. It's also not about goats. You're right. It's about us. It's about people. The wealth is merely a symbol of the responsibilities left to each servant. You feel me there? So with that as our context, that's why verse 14 is big. We got to really get our scope in play here. The wealth is not the focus. It's the people. It's the people that matter. And the people are given responsibilities by the master who's away for a little while. That's verse 14. All right. Now let's go to verse 15. Now let's start unpacking this now that we've got our proper context. Verse 15, two, one, meaning one of the servants. How do you know what a servant is? They serve. Okay. That's big. That's like big lesson. If you learn nothing else today, you can learn that the word servant's built on the word to serve. So in verse 15, to one, he gave five bags of gold. To another, he gave two bags. And to another, he gave one bag. Now the servants are the people who serve Jesus. And Jesus is giving out responsibility, but not in equal portions. Let me say that again, because I don't think you heard it. Jesus is handing out responsibilities, but not in equal portions. So you know what that tells me? Then I got to ask, well, how come? Why, Jesus? How come the other kid gets more toys than I get? Right? I mean, that's common. That's common. Wait. Wait. How come? How come? And I'll be honest. I am not immune to this. I'm friends with lots of pastors. Some of them, their churches are smaller than ours. Several of them, their churches are way bigger than ours. And I'm like, God, how come I don't get to teach at the 5,000 person church? Because you're way too ADHD and they would never follow you. I get that. So I really have to ask and answer for myself, why does the master hand out responsibilities in different quantities? Thankfully, Jesus gave me the answer. It's right there in verse 15. Each according to his ability. Quality by comparison always fails. Because Jesus gives us each the responsibility that he knows we're capable of. Do you know why Jesus did not let me have a sports car? Because I have a super hard time with speed limits. Okay. At least get one amen in the crowd. Okay. That's fine. I get one amen. I have a super hard time with speed limits. That's why I have to use the cruise control button. You know, when I get on 95, I look at the speed limit and I go and stop. Because when I was learning how to drive, I lived in metro Atlanta. My high school was in downtown Atlanta. So my mom would get us onto the freeway and then she'd pull off on the ramp when you still had time to accelerate into the flow and go, okay, now you have to drive home. So my learning how to drive was 85, 90 miles an hour when you could pass the Grey Poupon from one car to the next. So I'm very comfortable at high speeds. But Jesus knows, I'm his servant. If it doesn't work, we can turn off. That's fine. But that's fine. Jesus knows that that's not something good for me. So have you ever thought about the simple fact that sometimes Jesus doesn't give you something because it would actually be bad for you, not good for you? You know why Jesus doesn't give me a lifetime subscription to Ben and Jerry's? Because it would be delicious and it would be bad for me. See, in verse 15, it tells me the master knows me and he knows what I'm good at and what I'm not good at. He knows what I can take care of and what I can't. He knows I belong on the chess team, not the basketball team. Sorry, that's that's me. I'm the geek. The master knew the servants and that's what he knew. The master knew the servants and that's why he gave them different things. Verse 16. Now we get a look at three different servants. Verse 16. The man who had received five bags of gold went at once and put the money to work and he gained five. Next, in verse 17, you get the second servant. He was given two bags of gold and he gained two. So here are all of you math majors. Let me ask you a question. When you compare the first servant who was given five and gained five and you compare to the second servant who was given two and gained two, percentage wise, who's better? They're equal. That's right. Some total wise, servant one is better than servant two. But that's quality by comparison. Percentage wise, in the view of the master, they both did the same job. Now, is that an accident? Or since we're looking at a parable and we know that Jesus is setting the story up for us, did they not do exactly what the master had intended for them to do? Here you go. You know what? I know your heart. You can totally handle all five bags of this gold. I'm going to ask you to go do something with it. Over here, dude, I know you. Two's enough for you. That's how I feel. Jesus looks at me. He's like, whoa, Bill, I know you here. You can maybe handle catalysts. We'll try that. OK. You know, and then in verse 18. We find the third servant. But the man who had received one bag, he went off. He dug a hole in the ground and he hid his master's money. Now, based on the fact that we looked at servant one, had five, gained five. We looked at servant two, had two and gained two. If servant three had followed the pattern, what should he have done? Had one, gained one. Right? Are we following along? I love the fact that Jesus makes the math super simple because I'm that super simple math guy. So the third servant should have gained one more. Unfortunately, he does not do that. Verse 19. If you have your Bibles, whether they're physical or digital, circle, long press, highlight, do something on verse 19. Verse 19 is the pivot point of this parable. Verse 19. After a long time, the master of those servants returned. You guys missed the amen moment. Let me read that again. Verse 19. After a long time, the master of the servant returned. Who's the master? Jesus. Who's going to do the returning? Jesus. See how that works? All of a sudden, when you put the parable in the right context, it has nothing to do with the wealth. It has to do with the master giving responsibilities to his servants. And oh, yeah, by the way, he's coming back. So the wealth, the responsibility that Jesus gave to me is not just for me to enjoy. It's not just for me to have fun. There's a purpose for it that's greater than me. There's a purpose for it. Why? And here's the big thing. Because the servants are stewards, not owners. Amen. That's a big deal. Especially for us as Americans, where we live our lives comparing clothing labels to our clothes. And cars and houses and retirement accounts and all that jazz. These servants never owned the responsibilities they were given. They were entrusted with them. That's called stewardship, not ownership. How do I know that? Because when the master returns, look at verse 19. What does the master do upon returning? Back half of 19, he sees the master return. What does the master do upon returning? Back half of 19, he settled accounts with them. If you would allow me to put this in the international bill version, verse 19. After a while, Jesus returned and said, show me the money. I mean, that's the new international bill version. Jesus shows up. He returns. I entrusted you with this and this and this and this. You over there, I knew good enough. I only trusted you with this and that. Give me what's mine. That's why 19 is the pivot point. Remember that this parable is in context of the end times of the return of Jesus. He's saying, after a long time, that means at the time when Jesus returns, the master, Jesus himself, he comes to settle accounts with his servants. And I don't have the time to unpack an entire dispensational view of the book of Revelation, but here's what I need to understand. If you are a Christian, let me ask a simple question. Do Christians go to hell? Okay, the answer was no. Let's try that again. Maybe we need to stop this sermon and go back to salvation. Do Christians go to hell? No. No. All right. We're sure on that, right? Like we can move on from there. Oh, man, that was amazing. All right, so let me ask you a question one more time. Make sure everybody's on board. Do Christians have to worry about going to hell? No. Thank you, Mike and Joel. So let me ask you a question. What is Jesus coming back to settle accounts with Christians for? See, most people, when they think about the end times, they think about the super scary smoking, non-smoking, eternal destination part of Revelation. Most people forget that for Christians, there is no go to hell option. If there was, then the gospel is valueless. Jesus' death on the cross means nothing if I can trust in him and still worry about going to hell. But if I'm not going to worry about going to hell, then what am I going to be judged for? Right here. Stay. I'm going to be judged by what God has put in my life and what I did with it. I'm going to be judged by what he entrusted me with. And guess what? What he entrusted me with is not the same as what he entrusted you with. And what he entrusted you with is not the same as the person in the row in front of you or behind you to your left or to your right. We've got to get rid of quality by comparison. It doesn't work in the kingdom of God. It doesn't. We've got to stop looking at this person or that person and being jealous of, you know, in my context, being jealous of that person's sermon or such and such as book deal or so and so's church size or so and so's worship team. I've got to get over all that and realize the only thing Jesus is going to judge me for is what did you do with what he gave me? That's why 19 is that pivot point. Then we now get to see what happens to the three servants after verse 19. Look at verse 20. The man who received five bags of gold brought another five. He said, Master, the word master here is probably one of my it might be my absolute favorite Greek word for the name of Jesus. So the Greek term underlying that word master right there is coreos. K.Y.R.I.O.U.S. And what it literally means is one who has authority over me. So is anybody in here who served in the armed forces? Any one of them? That's so awesome. I love you. Thank you for your service. Thank you for your service. People who are in the military totally are going to get what I say. When someone outranks you, do you get a vote when they give you an order? Nope. That's coreos. That's what it means. When someone outranks you, when he is your master, when he has authority over you, you don't get a vote when he says stuff. You don't get to say go pack sand. Nope. You get to say yes, sir, and go do. That's what this word right here means. The servants, when they come back and they face the master, they understand implicitly in the word that they used, you have authority over me. You have authority over my life, my choices, my actions, and what I did with which, oh, by the way, was yours to begin with. Right? Everything that the servants had was first given to them by the master, and now they're not being judged on what I gave you. You're being judged on what you did with it. Verse 20, the man who received five brought five. Master, you have entrusted me with five bags. See, I have gained five more. Verse 21, here's the master's reply. Well done, my good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Come share and come and share your master's happiness. So if the master is Jesus, if the servants is us, if the money is merely the responsibility that he's given us, he's going to ask us, what did you do with what I gave you? And we're going to have to give an answer. And we're going to have to say, master, I took. The fact that you made me ADHD, the fact that I have a voice that's way too loud for a body size, and the fact that I love reading geeky stuff, and I became a pastor, that's what I got. OK, like Jesus, I hope it's good enough because I'm kind of all in at this point. I don't have a backup plan. This is what I got. But what about you? Are you the guy that's been given the five bags? Somebody who's been given a lot? Because here's the truth. To the people who's been given a lot, a whole lot's going to be expected. Remember, the master gave based on his knowledge of the servants. So the master gave the first servant the largest amount of responsibility because he knew he could hang. He knew he could deal. He knew he would be successful with it. But he didn't give to the second servant what he gave to the first servant. Why? Because the second servant would have gotten distracted. I feel that. Squirrel. That would have been me. I feel like servant number two. I'm trying to do my best, but I full well know I'm not going to be given the same that others have been given because I wouldn't do well with it. Hence the speed limit sign. Right. I'm not going to do well with that. So then we get to 21. The master replies. Good, well, faithful servant 22. Servant number two comes up. Two bags of gold. Master, I've entrusted you, gave you two more. See, I have gained two more. Twenty three. The master replies. Well done, my good and faithful servant. Do you notice that servant number one and servant number two get the same greeting from Jesus? Is that fair? Is it equal? Whoa, see now here we go. Is it fully equal? No. Servant number one presented the master with ten bags of gold. Servant number two presented the master with four. But here's where it is equal. Servant number one did not choose the five bags of gold, nor did servant number two choose the two bags of gold. Their servanthood was equal. Their product was not. Think about that. What they produced for the kingdom is not the same. But see, that's not what they're judged on. They're judged on what they did with what the master gave. So Jesus is not judging the gross national product of your spirituality. You know what he's judging? The stewardship that's in your heart. You know what he's judging? The spirit of your spirituality. You know what he's judging? The spirit of your spirituality. You know what he's judging? The stewardship that's in your heart. What are you doing with what he gave you? But then we got to get to 24. Here comes the third servant. The man who had received one bag of gold. Master, notice he uses the same word. I recognize that you have authority over me. You outrank me. And then he says this. I knew that you are a hard man, harvesting where you have not sown and gathering where you have not scattered seed. 25. So I was afraid. So I was afraid. Do you notice the difference in the way servant number 3 sees the master in the way servant number 1 and number 2 did? Servant number 1 and number 2 just went straight to work. Servant number 1 and number 2 just went straight to work. They went straight to work. Why? I believe in context, it's because their relationship with the master knew that they didn't need to be afraid of him. They took the gift that was given and what else came with that gift by the way? The expectation to get something done. The expectation to be a good servant. And servant number 1 and servant number 2 a good servant. And servant number one and servant number two, they do exactly that. Servant number three is overcome by fear and his fear turns into non-activity. Look at 25. So, I was afraid and went out and I hid your gold in the ground. See what belongs to you. Now, I got to give servant number three like a quarter inch worth of credit here. Did servant number three lose anything? No, he did not. Did servant number three do anything? No, he did not. What is servant number three judged on? He's not judged on the fact that he gave back to the master. What was the master's to begin with? Nobody cares about that. The master's like, that's my money already bro. Like you owe that to me because I gave it to you. What I wanted to know is, what did you do with what I gave you? But his fear led to inactivity. His fear led to poor stewardship 26. So now the master replies, you wicked and lazies. Man, there's a huge difference in the reception of servant number three to servants numbers one and two. Servants numbers one and two are received the same way even though they did not produce the same amount because their heart was the same. So, use that as your filter to understand servant number three. Servant number three produces nothing because his heart is wrong, not his hands. Servant number three's problem is right here. He could have had the ability. In fact, I would argue he had the ability to gain one more because the master gave according to his abilities. So the master knew, hey man, I know you can't handle the five and let's be honest the two is probably a little much for you but I'm gonna give you this. This you can do well. Go do well with this. Servant number three because of his fear refused to use what the master gave and the first two say good and faithful. The second guy says wicked and lazy. Now the word wicked implies bad moral behavior, evil. You're evil or sinful and lazy. 27. You should have put my money on deposit with the bankers so that when I returned I would have received it. I love the word should. You know the word should implies an ought. O-U-G-H-T. It implies an expectation on behalf of the master that you're gonna do something with what I gave you and here's why. If you focus on the money you miss the way the master treats his servants. The master expected servant number three to bring back one more bag, right? Five brought five, two brought two. The master's expectation and he says dude the absolute least you could have done was invested my money. Now if servant number one or servant number three had done that who did the work to make the money? Not the servant, the bank. He wouldn't even give what the master gave him to someone else so that he could produce something to give back to the master. That's why he's lazy. He didn't want to work for it and he didn't want to let anybody else work for it either. All he wanted to do was just give it back. Verse 29 for whoever have excuse me 28 I'm sorry Eric 28. So take the bag of gold from him and give it to the one who has ten bags. Take them take the responsibility that I tried man. I tried to give you something you could work with. I didn't trust you with five. I didn't trust you with two. I gave you what was form-fitted for you. You had everything you needed to be successful and you still screwed up. You're out. Take that away and put it over here. Then 29 for whoever has will be given more and they will have an abundance. Whoever does not have even what they have will be taken from them. This is why you can't interpret the parable as it being the gospel or the Word of God. Because servant number three everything the master gave is removed. Is Jesus gonna cancel the gospel? Is Jesus gonna cancel the Word of God? No. That's why we got to keep it in context. Verse 30 throw that worthless servant outside into darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. That's why you can't interpret the parable as your natural talents. Whether and Ben I'm gonna pick on you for a second because your beard is looking good and you're right there. So no matter how good Ben is at playing the piano that doesn't create salvation. No matter how good our singers are at singing that doesn't make salvation. No matter how good our secret leaders and our Bible teachers are that doesn't make salvation. Right? We can have skills. We can have abilities. We can have natural talents. We can have spiritual gifts. We can have all of that that we use for the kingdom. But none of those exterior things change the heart. They just change what you're gonna be judged by. Throw this servant out. Remember the context. The coming kingdom of God. The parable after this one is the sheep and goat judgment where Jesus separates those who are his faithful servants from those who do not. That's what comes right after verse 30. So this you see how they link into one another? The parable the ten virgins says hey we have to be ready because the master is gonna come back at any time. The parable of the three servants says this is how we be ready. This is how we do what we do. We get from God. We work. We give back to God. Why? Because you're not actually an owner of anything in your life including the very breath in your lungs. You don't own it. You didn't make it. You didn't create it. You can't make more of it. We're stewards. We're stewards of all that God has given us. For some of us, stewards of musical stuff. For some of y'all and I will admit super jelly, stewards of like athletic stuffs. All the sports balls. You know? That's not in my wheelhouse. I admit it. Not in my wheelhouse at all. That was not the moment to amen. Micah thank you so much. My son's like yes my dad is a dweeb. It's okay. Then alright so I want to go one more slide forward because I know I bounced around a lot. Here is the proper way to understand this parable. So number one the context is the coming kingdom of God. Number two the focus is the servants not the money. Number three the story is about three servants given different responsibilities. And number four the lesson is this the master expects results to come from the responsibilities he's given each of us. That is how to interpret this parable correctly. If you get distracted by the money you're gonna miss the timeline. If you get distracted by the timeline you're gonna miss the servant hood aspect of it. Jesus has given each of us different kinds of responsibilities. So for all of you kids who are in Big Church today let's talk about what responsibilities you have. Now parents try not to raise your hands for your children. How many kids are responsible to make their beds? Just kids. There we go. Bam that's a responsibility. Okay now keep your hands up. All kids keep your hands up. How many kids are responsible or to help clean up dishes? If not you can put your hand down. How many kids are responsible to help cook dinner? If not you put your hand down. How many kids are responsible to do their own laundry? If not oh yeah okay. How many kids are responsible to mow the lawn? Right that's awesome. Alright kids you can put your hands down. Parents who do you think's holding them responsible for those things? So your responsibility is to oversee theirs. Now let's take it up a step. Adults what responsibilities has the Lord given you? He's given us salvation. He's given us the ability to carry the gospel. He's given us this fantastic church to serve in. Remember the beginning of the sermon? Servants are people who actually do stuff. Let's just let that sit there for a minute make sure everybody catches up. Servants are people who actually do stuff right? What are we doing with what the Lord has given us? More importantly you specifically the lesson is your master expects results to come from the responsibilities he's given you. If Jesus were to return right after we get lunch right because lunch is on the way. What would you have to hand back to him from what he's given you? Just think about that. That's the real point of the parable. What are you... Jesus returns in the next 60 minutes. Where's your results? What can you turn to in your life and say master you gave me that you gave me that you gave me that here's what I did with it or and let's be real some of us are like the third servant. You've been kept inactive by fear. You've been kept on the sidelines. See look I use the sports word. You've been kept on the sidelines because you're afraid to try. You're afraid to get in the game. You're afraid to step out. You have got to get over your fear because the master expects results. Now here's the cool thing and this is the thing I think we get wrong in church a lot. Let's just say for kicks that I'm servant number one. I'm the one up here. I get the Word of God. I have these amazing study tools. It's my responsibility to teach you the Word of God every week. So I've got a lot of expectations riding on the things I've been given and let's say you're servant number two. Should you be comparing yourself to what I'm supposed to give to God? No. I need you to compare yourself to you. Look inside that internal mirror inside your head and ask yourself what have I actually produced for the kingdom of God? Where are the results that my master, my courios, my commanding officer expects from me because of what he's given me? That's the lesson here. So what do we do next? I need everybody to take out your cell phone. Give me a favor. Everybody you brought your cell phone with you. If you're watching on your phone I need you to write down a web address for me. I want everybody to take a next step today. You can take your next step by going to catalyst302.com. The very first button there says take a next step. This is something that we're gonna do every single week. Now if you do not have your phone with you in a couple of weeks we're going to be having the paper connect cards right there in the chairs in front of you. I'm just trying to work out all the kinks for the online so I don't waste the church's paper and printing by printing the wrong thing. So I'm gonna ask everybody even if you're joining us online go to catalyst302.com. You're gonna see at the very top of the website it says take a next step. I want you to click on it. It takes you to the next step page and I want you to fill it out and I want you to ask yourself one simple question. What results does my life have to offer my Savior? And I want you to be honest. For some of us or some of you even if you're joining us online this journey starts with recognizing who the master is right? So the whole parable was started on the fact that the ma the servants already knew who their master was. That's your first step today. Your first next step is pastor I do not know what it really means to surrender my life to Jesus. You'll notice right there on that form that's the first next step. You can just put your name email click that box and when you hit submit it's gonna come directly to me. If you do not have a personal relationship and trusting in Jesus for your salvation that's your next step today. That's got to be. Number two if you have trusted in Jesus for your salvation and you've never been baptized you've got to do it man. It is so super stoked and fun and amazing and I want to talk to you about what it really means for your life. Just click that button that says I'm interested in getting baptized. It'll come to me and I'll reach out to you. The third one I need to live by the spirit. Here's where most of our discipleship has to happen. What results do you have for the kingdom right now? Right now if you walk outside of those doors and Jesus is standing right next to Mike and he says okay Megan it's time to put up. What do you got? What do you show for me? Frank it's time to put up. Show me my account. What's mine? Show me the money. What's mine? What do you have to show? The next one I need to join in community. I can't say this enough. I love that those of you who are watching this sermon online are still able to hear the teaching of the Word of God. You cannot be a healthy Christian disconnected from it. We have to have this. We have to have community. That's why that next step is online so that you can stay connected to us. That's why this is all about is making sure that no matter where you are you're also not alone. No Christian is an island. Salvation happens one at a time. Discipleship happens a village at a time. We can't do it alone. So maybe your next step especially with everything that our community's been through maybe your next step is I need to reconnect. Pastor I need to reconnect through the church. And then finally the last one I need to partner in ministry. You guys know the old adage. 80% of the work in church is done by 20% of the volunteers. 20% of the people carry 80% of the load. However you want to say that the simple reality is some of you who are sitting in these seats right now do nothing to help the church. I'm not being offensive I'm just being truthful. And some of you are sitting in these seats are doing too much and you're not allowing room for those who need to step up. That's why we got to work together. We can't have five people doing all 20 jobs because then there's 15 jobs that someone else could step in and do. So if you are a servant and you are serving in more than one place pick the easiest one find someone who's not serving and say hey let me show you how we do this. Let me show you how we greet at the front door. Let me show you I can tell you two areas that we need help with right now. Number one audiovisual. I just asked pastor Paul to take over this whole monster that is streaming and make it better. Which means I just stole half the sound on audio guys away from Frank who's trying to make our worship service happen. You know the other place we need help downstairs our kids department. We need them. Yes you need to be background checked. The safety of the children of catalyst is our utmost importance. But let me tell you the absolute gospel honest truth. More people statistically in America most Americans will dedicate their lives to a faith that they were first exposed to before the age of 12. Let me say that again. Most Americans will land their life on a faith that they were first exposed to before the age of 12. Which means Miss Melody I'm gonna pick on you for a second. Can you please stand up and Tara are you here somewhere because I'm a little blind. She's downstairs. All right Miss Melody right there. She is the most gospel eccentric important person in the building. Thank you. More salvation happens downstairs than will ever happen in this room. More salvation happens with kids church than will happen in everything we have here. Everyone who's joining us online and yet for some reason the children's ministries and the nursery ministries they always end up being the ugly stepchild of the church. You know they're the most gospel eccentric important thing that we can do but we treat them like Harry Potter we kick them under the closet stairs. So here's what I need and I'll be absolutely honest with you. Two weeks ago I had a meeting with the ministry leaders and I pitched a crazy crazy audacious goal for Easter. I need eight new people to volunteer in our children's department the next two weeks. That's what I need. I need you to on that on that connect card say I want a partner in ministry. Pastor I'm willing to give one Sunday a week to our kids. I'm willing to invest one Sunday to be in the biggest spot for salvation change known to man and it's downstairs. So those are those two big needs we have in our church. So if you haven't already please catalyst 302.com click on next steps. I've got three announcements because I get to do those today because pastor Paul's pastor Paul's at camp so I get one more thing and hopefully with me having them written down I will screw it up. So the first is men's fraternity. So this week is actually going to be the first Wednesday of the month. So this announcement is for all of you gentlemen. I will be starting to take over the men's ministry as of February 1st. I am going to be casting a new vision for what it means to be a godly Christian man and I would like you to come in here. I will bribe you. I will give you pizza. I will give you soda. I will have a dessert of some kind that I'm not gonna ask my wife ahead of time whether I'm allowed to eat it. But here's what I know to be true. Churches who are led by godly men are powerful and you know what happens and so guys sit down and just brace for a minute because I'm gonna give you the cold hard truth. The cold hard truth is there are churches everywhere in America where women are carrying more weight than they're supposed to be because men don't step up and get the jobs done. That does not mean wait wait that does not mean that godly womanhood is not valuable and important and amazing because it is. Don't think I'm putting down the ladies who've carried the weight but the reality is if catalyst is like every other church in America then there are some men in this room who need to get off your butt and get in the game and that's why I need you to come on Wednesday night. I want to give you a fresh vision for what a calling to be a godly man looks like. My second announcement and I don't have a slide for it so you just get to look at that is there is no kids choir. Is that correct tonight? There is no kids choir tonight. So our kids are practicing for an awesome musical that's coming up on Palm Sunday but kids there is no kids choir tonight and finally I do not know whether there's gonna be a remix tonight or not because I'm waiting for pastor Paul to get back from camp. There is not? Okay so when he left on Friday he said he was gonna leave it up to the kids. I don't know what they're gonna want to do so stay tuned to pastor Paul's remix channels for that. So let me close this in prayer. I ran a little long but thank you for letting me bring the word of God to you today. I want everybody to take a next step and be more like Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father I thank you that you are our master. Lord I thank you that you have given each of us responsibilities because you know us deep inside. You know who we are, what we're good at and more importantly what we're not. Holy Spirit I pray that you touch every person hearing me pray. Whether they are on campus, online or watching this sermon after the fact. Holy Spirit grab a hold of their heart. Get them out of their fear-based inactivity and move us towards being kingdom minded producers. Help us to give you what you expect from us. Jesus we love you, we worship you, we thank you in your amazing name. Amen. So last thing.