Father, we thank you that you are the one that never leaves one of us behind. That at the sound of your voice, everything sings your praises, Father. Lord, we thank you for a free time of worship, Father. We thank you for life, for breath, Father. We thank you for Pastor Bill and his family, Lord. I just pray that you will be with us today. Be with Pastor Bill as he brings the message, Father. Speak through him. We ask all these things in your name we pray. Amen. Well, good morning and welcome to Catalyst. Thank you so much for being a part of our service today. Thank you so much for being a part of our worship. Here at Catalyst, we're about one thing. And that is relentlessly loving people to life change. So if you are here this morning, if you're our guest, whether you joined us on campus or you're joining us online, we want you to know that we love you. We are thankful that you chose to be here with us today. We also want you to know that we love you and you don't have to stay the same. The amazing thing about having a relationship with Jesus is that every day we can change and be more like him. So thank you for being a part. Paul, one thing I've totally forgot since this is brand new, I forgot to bring the remote and turn it on. So it would be supes helpful if we turned that on rather than just have me talk blank. Sorry about that. I promise. I am a professional. I can get better. So thank you. We are one of the ways that we change to be more like Jesus is by studying his word together. So if you brought your TVs with you, I brought one. Should be Arc, yeah, three. So if you brought your Bibles with you, whether they be physical or digital, do me a favor and turn with me to the book of Mark. So turn or tap to the book of Mark. We are going to be continuing my teaching series entitled Parables, Stories of the Savior. So while you turn to Mark four, parables, stories of the Savior. And each time I bring you a series, I'm going to try to also give you a key thought that makes that series all go together. So the key thought for this parable series is Jesus used stories to teach lessons. Jesus used stories to teach lessons. Now what that means for us is we need to understand that there's a story, but we need to understand that the lesson is bigger than the story. It's good to know the story. One of the things I love about the fact that Jesus used stories is stories are easy to remember. Stories are easy to remember. Stories are easy to retell. But stories also teach lessons. So the title of this morning's sermon is, it's been called several things. It's been called the parable of the farmer, the parable of the sower. I chose the title, the sower and the soils. So we're going to look at the first 12 verses of Mark chapter four. So I'd like to read them for you so we get the whole feel of what that passage sounds like. And then we're going to go back and we're going to dig into it piece by piece. So here is Mark chapter four, starting in verse one. Listen. So they did not bear grain. Verse eight. The secret of the kingdom of God has been given to you, but to those on the outside, everything you said in parables, so that they may be ever seeing, but never perceiving, and ever hearing, but never understanding. Otherwise, they might turn and be forgiven. Then Jesus said to them, don't you understand this parable? How will you understand any parables? The farmer, now I'm sorry, now I'm going to skip down, keep going, this is verse 13, verse 14. The farmer sows the word. Some people are like the seed along the path where the word is sown. As soon as they hear it, Satan comes and takes away the word that is sown in them. Others, like seed sown on rocky places, hear the word and at once receive it with joy. But since they have no root, they last only a short time. When trouble or persecution comes because of the word, they quickly fall away. Still others, like seed sown among thorns, they hear the word. But the worries of life, the deceitfulness of wealth, and the desires of other things come in and choke the word, making it unfruitful. Verse 20, others, like seed sown on good soil, hear the word, accept it, and produce a crop, some 30, some 60, and some 100 times what was sown. Now, this is one of the few parables in the Bible that Jesus himself defines for us. Last week we looked at the parable of the good Samaritan. And we had to look at the context, the setting, the audience, because that was all part of what his native audience would have automatically understood. And that's how they would have understood his teaching. Now, this week we get to look at a very special parable because we get to see his public teaching of the parable and also his private explanation of the parable. So let's go back and look at verse 1. And again, Jesus began to teach. Jesus began to teach by the lake. Now, this is the first thing that you have to understand about Jesus. He was a teacher. The 33 years he was on his earth, 3 of them were spent traveling and teaching. Today we might call someone like that an itinerant preacher. We might call them a traveling evangelist, a traveling pastor. I mean, we have all kinds of words for it. But at the end of the day, Jesus' ministry involved an awful lot of teaching. So what does that tell you about his audience? His audience needed an awful lot of learning. Jesus is trying to teach them something that they don't understand yet, that they haven't been revealed to them yet. Now, if we go back to the Old Testament, coming out of the Old Testament, there was an expectation that God was going to send a Messiah. He was going to send someone to lead and rescue the Jewish people. Now, by the time of the first century, when Jesus is traveling through Judea, Samaria, Palestine area, who's in charge of the world? That's not a rhetorical question. Somebody's got to tell me. Who's in charge of the world when Jesus is alive? Well, yes, Jesus is ultimately in charge of the world. I'll give you that. But who's the world dominating political power in Rome? That's right. Rome came in and conquered the area that we know as Judea, Samaria, and Galilee. By the time Jesus comes on the scene, the Jewish people are again oppressed by a foreign government. You have to see this and understand this because it's super deeply rooted in the Jewish understanding of that word Messiah. See, when you and I use the word Messiah today, we automatically know we're talking about Jesus. We have 2,000 years of hindsight. We get to look back and see the cross, the resurrection, the ascension, the collection, and the canonization of the word of God. We get all of that. Jesus' audience who heard this parable on this day got none of it. So remember, sometimes we got to take our modern day glasses off and understand the way his audience understood. They're largely first century Jews. You know what the first century Jews want from their Messiah? Military overthrow. They want a king like the big boys of the Old Testament. They want a Saul. They want a David. They want a Solomon. They want a warrior. What do they want? They want somebody to come in and beat up the big bad bully that is Rome and give us our kingdom back. Give us our throne back. We want to be our own self-governed people. So a Jewish first century expectation of what kind of Messiah is God going to send? God's going to send a big, burly, bad man. They did not expect God to send a teacher and a healer. And yet that's what we see. In fact, one of my favorite gospels is the Gospel of Luke. Almost every time you see Jesus teaching, he's healing. And every time he's healing, he's teaching. So when we look at this person of Jesus, and verse one it says, And Jesus began to teach by the lake. Now most likely, this lake, does anybody's Bible say teach by the sea? By the way, just out of curiosity, yes. Okay, so here's why. If we look at our New Testament geography, right, I'm going to, I'm super, super, super bad at geography. I just want you to know that. But I do know this. There's a body of water by Galilee that's called three different names. So it's called the Sea of Galilee. It's called the Sea of Tiberias, named after the Roman emperor. And it's also called the Lake of Gennesaret. All three of those bodies of water, same thing, right? So don't get confused if one of your Bibles says he's teaching by the lake, and somebody says he's teaching by the sea. He's not teaching in two different places. They're using two different names. They're using two different names. In the same way that in our Civil War history, we have two different names for certain battles, right? Some of us use the closest river. Some of us use the closest town. So when Jesus is teaching by the lake, he's teaching in a public place. He's teaching in a place where there's lots of people. And he uses this to advantage. A crowd gathered around Jesus. What Jesus had to say, people wanted to hear. And so a crowd shows up. And the problem is the crowd is too large for him to teach standing on the shore. So he does what any first century smart person does. He gets in a boat. He pulls back from the walk, from the shoreline just a little bit. And now he has an elevated platform to teach a crowd. And the crowd can gather kind of like a one-story auditorium. Jesus pulls back just enough. He uses the water as a natural barrier. Also acoustically would have done a lot to reflect his voice back out at the people, right? So Jesus creates for himself this lake of Gennesaret, this lake of Gennesaret, sea of Tiberius, sea of Galilee, you know, kind of pop-up amphitheater, if you will. He pulls back from the water and he starts teaching the crowd. Then in verse 2 it says, he taught them many things by parables. Now here we got to ask a question. What's the goal of teaching? What's that? Right. To help someone understand. I totally agree with you. What's the goal of teaching? To help someone understand. So why teach in parables? I mean, maybe I'm just overthinking it, but doesn't that sound strange to anybody? Like, if I wanted to teach something, wouldn't you just say it? Wouldn't you just come out and teach exactly what you want to teach? But Jesus, see he has, and that's why I think it's so important we take it little by little. Jesus teaches them by parables. And what's cool about this parable is we get to see him teach the parable and we get to see him explain the parable. But this is what I need you to see. The audiences are different. Jesus teaches the parable in public. He explains the parable in private. And I want you to catch that as we go through this, because that's monumentously important. Verse 3, listen! Anybody else's Bible have an exclamation point right there? It's just like a one word, whoa! See? I don't know. See, I get the advantage of seeing this. Did you notice how many people's heads popped up the moment I clapped my hands? Right? Why? What is this crazy fat man going to say next? Right? I want you to understand that's exactly what Jesus did right there when he said, listen. There's an exclamation value to it. Listen! He's gathering everyone's attention. He's in the boat. He pulls back from the shore. He's got this big crowd of beautiful people just like y'all that he gets to teach to. And he grabs all of their attention and he points it at a specific direction. He says, a farmer went out to sow his seed. Here's the beginning of the story. Remember, Jesus uses stories to teach lessons. Here's the beginning of the story. What do I know? I know there's a character. He's a farmer. I know his actions. He's sowing seed or he's planting seeds. Now what's interesting is, if Jesus is on a boat, just pulled back from the shore on the Sea of Galilee, it is quite possible that he pulled back from the shore and went, listen! A farmer is sowing his seed. He could have been pointing at an actual farmer actually sowing seed and then used that as the understanding that he knew his first-century audience would have. Just as much as I could say, listen! So I was in my car, stopped at a red light. Right? That's something that we all automatically culturally understand. That frustration of waiting for grain. Right? We all know what that feels like. We've experienced it. Well, in Jesus' instance, he says, listen! A farmer grows out to sow his seed. Now in case you've never seen how first-century farmers sow, they don't have big fancy John Deere tractors and combines. Right? They got hands and plows. And so they plow up the ground. Right? So they tie a plow usually behind a strong animal if you're wealthy enough. If you're not wealthy enough, you're pushing that thing, driving it by yourself, getting ready for football practice. I get that. And then you are tossing your seed. So literally taking a handful of potential food. Don't miss that. Why is the farmer farming? Because I don't know about you all, but farmers like to eat. Right? I like to eat. I like food. Dessert is my favorite food group. The farmer has a handful of potential food. And that's why do farmers plant? Do farmers plant? Because it's entertaining? No. Do farmers plant because they need the exercise? I mean, maybe they need exercise. But what's the goal of farming? To grow stuff. To grow crops. All of this immediately understandable when he says a farmer. A farmer goes out to plant seeds so he can grow stuff. Pop quiz. What do you get if you plant tomato seeds? Tomato. What do you get if you plant orange seeds? Corn. What do you get if you plant corn? Tomato. Exactly. The farmer has an expectation of what he's going to get because of what he put in the ground. Right? The farmer has an expectation of what he's going to grow. And interestingly, Jesus doesn't tell us what kind of seed it is. But he's scattering seed with his hand over this ground. And the seed is now going to fall into different locations. Verse 4. And he was scattering some of the seed, fell along the path, and the birds came and ate it up. So, what you need to understand about first century farming is they would have had a path to walk on. And they would scatter the seed like this. Left and right. And then I'll have a path this way and I'll scatter the seed left and right. Why is that? Well, because I need a path to get to my crops. But if I trample all of my crops, I don't get any food. So, Jesus knows and he uses his knowledge of first century farming. And he says, listen, all of you all who have gardens, you walk on the outside of your garden, not through your garden. If you plan on walking through your garden, you plan for it. Right? The farmer did the same thing. The problem is the seed that fell along the path, that's the part that's super hard. It's packed down. It's crusted because the farmer and anybody else has been walking on that path. So, it's rough. It's hard. It is difficult to penetrate. And his audience understood this. And so, why do the birds come and get the seed? Because the seed never made it into the ground. It never made it past the hardened top layer of soil that had been packed down underneath the farmer's walking. And that's why the birds are able to come and get it. Verse 5, now here's the next place. Some of the places are rocky places. Now, I've heard different Bible commentators and different scholars tell me whether this is rocks. Like when I think of rocky places, I, well, I guess if we're being totally honest, which I guess in church we shouldn't lie. The first thing I think of when I think of rocky places is Philadelphia because I'm a movie fanatic. But then after we get past that, I think of rocks where they're up out of the ground. That's the wrong connotation. A rocky place is a place where there's rocks below the soil. You can't see the rocks. It looks like a standard amount of soil. But somewhere in all that soil, there's a rock just a little bit below the ground. You can't really see it. But it's going to affect the seed. So, what happens? The seed falls on rocky places. It doesn't have much soil. It springs up quickly. And this is the first thing you understand. Half. All of the other places showed the beginnings of growth. That's going to be important when we get to the back half. But because of the rocks below the surface, there was no way to grow roots. It sprang up quickly. Verse 6. When the sun comes up. Now what's interesting is, doesn't the seed need sun to grow? And yet in this instance, Jesus is saying, because of the lack of roots, the sun scorches the plant. The plant dies. The plant also bears no fruit. So, 50% of the places that the farmer has sowed seed to this point have not done their job. They have not borne fruit. Now, verse 7. Other seeds fall among thorns. Now what's cool about fall among thorns is, this is the first area where stuff is growing. That tells me that the soil is capable of growth. The problem is, the soil is growing something other than what the farmer needs it to grow. It's growing something counterproductive to making the food, to making the stuff. So the thorns grow and they choke out the plant to what? Till it bears no grain. What's the point of planting seeds? To bear fruit. To have product. The point of planting seeds is to not just entertain yourself by plowing up ground and casting seed. The point of planting is growing. Here in verse 7, the thorns grow, they choke it up, it's gone. Now verse 8. The final of the four examples of soil. Still other seed fell on good soil. It came up and grew and produced a crop. So what's the purpose? Why does the farmer plant seed? To grow food. I mean, farmers still do that today. We just do it with a whole lot more technology. They plow up the fields, they pull out the rocks. We do all that stuff ahead of time. But only in verse 8 do we see that 25% of the seed that was sown fell on good soil. What is that? It's soil that's not hard packed. It's soil that doesn't have roots. And it's soil that doesn't have thorns. Because that was the first three areas where the seed did get planted but didn't go anywhere. The good soil doesn't have all of those. And it also has everything that it needs to grow. And then verse 9, Jesus says, whoever has ears, let them hear. And the sermon's over. Yeah, just think about that for a second. Everything I've explained, I've only talked about farming. I've only talked about why farmers do this, why farmers do that. And then Jesus says, thank you, good night, and walks. Why? Why? That's the huge question we have to ask with this parable. Why does Jesus deliver half a teaching and then deuce out like it's the altar call and we're done? Well, let's keep reading. We've watched this. The public, and here's what you do. If you're in your Bibles, take your pen. If you're on your phones, long press and highlight. After verse 9 ends, the public portion of the teaching. Starting in verse 10, we are now in the private moment. Why does Jesus do this? I think that's the most important thing of understanding this parable is seeing the two halves. Why does Jesus drop a next-to-level teaching but keep it cloaked in a parable in public? But then when he gets together with his disciples and his closest, now he unpacks it. Here's why. Jesus knows that there are some people in the crowd who are there for the wrong reasons and do not have true faith. Teaching in parables allowed him to speak directly to the faithful, differently the unbelieving, all at the same time. I think we should accept the simple reality that in every group of people, there are some people who are genuinely there to meet Jesus. And there are some people who just aren't there yet. There are also some people who are there for the wrong reasons. There were Pharisees listening to Jesus' teaching, waiting, salivating for him to mess up, him to screw up something so they can go back and tattle to daddy and figure out a way to get Jesus to stop teaching. Jesus knows this. I mean, 1 Samuel says that while we as humans look at the outside, it's the Lord that looks at the heart. Jesus knows that not all of his audience are true believers. So he gives them a teaching that's going to apply to two different groups of people in two different ways. Now here in verse 10, now we're going to jump into a private moment. Jesus teaches the meaning of the parable only to those who are his faithful followers. They had the faith to believe and because of that faith, they would be given more understanding than the crowd. I think the break between 9 and 10 is the secret to understanding this parable. You've got to see that the audience changes. Just like last week when we talked about the parable of the Good Samaritan, the secret was understanding the expert. Thank you. Somebody was at church. I love you. Yeah. That was the secret to understanding the Good Samaritan. Here's the secret to understanding the parable of the soils. Two different audiences. The public audience got to hear the parable. But the public audience included people who were not Jesus' faithful followers. They might have included people who were like, eh, I'm not doing anything. Let's see what this preacher has to say. It could have included people who were like, oh man, I cannot wait for this brother to make a mistake. I'm going to jump on his theology like going out of business. And there could have been people who said, Jesus, you have the words of life. I want to hear. I would argue that there might be all three of those groups of people here today. Whether you're sitting in these chairs or whether you've joined us online. I never know who's listening. I never know who's and of course now with all the technology that Paul's got in place, you can go back and watch this sermon. You might actually be watching me speak on a day that's not Sunday. That is a total mind bender for me. Because my job is to show up and do my best teaching on Sunday. But when I get emails on Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday, by the way, that happened this week. I got next step emails all the way through till yesterday about last Sunday. All of a sudden my brain goes, oh wow, church doesn't just happen on Sundays. Church happens whenever the Holy Spirit talks to somebody. Right? I mean, thank you. That was the amen moment right there. We've got to understand that the Holy Spirit works 24-7. He's not just at work on Sunday mornings from 10 to 11 in this cute little room. The Holy Spirit works all day long. I don't know who else is listening. For everyone who's watching this on your phone right now, hi, I don't know you. I can't see you. These people are beautiful. I hope that you fit in. Right? So now let's transition and let's go to verse 10. Now remember, no longer public, no longer on the boat. We're not at the beach. We're likely in a house. How do I know that? Because if you read the context of the preceding 2 chapters, Jesus had to leave one place because of some friction, because of some dudes who wanted to make his life hard, Jesus leaves. And in the next scene, Jesus comes out of a house. So Jesus is now in a private environment. Verse 10, when he was alone. Of course he's not totally alone because the 12 and the disciples are there to ask questions. When he was alone, the 12 and the others. Okay? I need like 30 seconds for a soapbox moment. You ready? Anybody notice it says the 12 and the others? Who are the others? The others, if you want my best guess, by the time we get to the book of Acts, in the upper room, Acts chapter 2, when the Holy Spirit falls, Jesus has 120 faithful followers. That 120 faithful followers includes women. How do I know that? Because on Easter Sunday morning, the four people who had the guts and the gall to go see the tomb weren't the 12 disciples. They were all women. So for all women who are Christians, when it says the 12 and the others, guess what? All of y'all were there. Right? So anybody who mistakenly thinks that Jesus only traveled with 12 other dudes and they're the only people who got to hear everything that Jesus taught, that is unbiblical. Jesus traveled with a much larger group of followers and it continued to grow. But within that group of followers, he did select and recruit. And keep in mind, Jesus recruited 12 and only graduated 11. So for all of you who want to like help make disciples, you don't have to be perfect. You just got to be working. Jesus has a group of followers. At this point, I would argue absolutely Mary, his mother, Mary Magdalene, possibly Joanna. I mean, there's a group of them. There are women involved in this hearing directly from Jesus. And they said, and Jesus, verse 10, 12 and the others around him asked him about the parables. They didn't get it yet. Right? Here's another cool thing you got to remember. You and I, when we finally submit to Christ, when we trust in him for our salvation, we are immediately indwelt by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit can start revealing Scripture to us. That's the benefit of living in the age of the church. Praise God for the Holy Spirit. But these people didn't have that yet. Everybody in the Old Testament except for those selected individuals who God did choose to give the Spirit to, didn't have that. So, don't... Like sometimes I feel super bad and like super judgy. I'm like, Peter, dude, Jesus. Like could you just get it on lock? Peter is my favorite. He's like the ADHD disciple. Peter goes from, Lord, I will never forsake you, bro. I don't know that, dude. That fast. But then I got to remember, at this point in the Gospels, they're walking around, they're hearing the Savior teach. But they don't have the Spirit inside of them like you and I do today. They don't have the ability for the same God who revealed Scripture to reveal to me inside of myself what Jesus is saying. So, we'll cut them a little bit of slack today when they say, okay, Jesus, I don't get it. Right? That's what they're saying. Verse 10, I don't get it. Verse 11, Jesus responds in the private. Jesus responds in the private audience. He told them, the secret of the kingdom of God has been revealed to you. But those... But to those on the outside, everything is said in parables. The secret of the kingdom of God has been revealed to you. What's the secret? Well, the Old Testament expects a kingdom of God. And I would argue without a good working knowledge of the Old Testament, you probably are not interpreting the New Testament correctly. You are definitely not interpreting the book of Revelation correctly if you don't first understand your Old Testament history. There's an expectation of a Messiah. All the way back in David, God told David, I will raise up one of your sons who will be a forever king over Israel. You know, you can't be a forever king if you can't live forever. Right? That's kind of implicit in the job description. So the Old Testament gives us an expectation that there will be a forever reigning king over all Israel. But it didn't exactly explain that first he was going to come and be a shepherd and a savior. So is the expectation of Jesus wrong? No. The Old Testament... And I like to say it this way. Imagine all of you are looking at a mountain range. Right? I'm a big guy, but I'm not that big. So imagine with me. You're looking at a mountain range. You see a peak here and you see another peak here. Can you see both peaks? Yes. In this perspective, can you adequately know the distance between the first peak and the second peak? No, you can't. You could if you were looking this way. The Old Testament looks forward to the return of Jesus. It did not anticipate the distance of you and I today, the age of the church. That's the secret. You and I get to know that today. We get to know that now. But this audience right here in the first century as Jesus is teaching, probably with bread and food. Because I mean like we're Baptist. What do you do? You have food and you teach. That's what we do. Why do we do that? Because Jesus ate food. That's my theological definition for my church should have cake every week. Jesus had food. That's the secret. The secret of the kingdom of God is that Jesus came not just to be a king, but to be a savior. And the Old Testament didn't exactly know that. Thank you. So these people in this private room, they get to find out that Jesus is about to do something, wow, crazy. That they couldn't have expected. But all of those who are outside, they don't get to hear the same thing. So that seeing they may not be perceiving and hearing, they may not be understanding. He's quoting from the book of Isaiah. Does Jesus know the scriptures? Yeah, man, he does. Don't quote that magic to me. I was there when it was written. Right? Jesus knows the scriptures. He's quoting from a judgment on unfaithful people back from the book of Isaiah. That's why he's teaching in parables. He's saying, nope, you guys are going to get to hear the secret. That crowd out there, they're not ready for it yet. They don't understand it all yet. So here we go. Now I'm going to unpack the secret to you. Don't you understand this? Let's go to verse 14. The farmer sows the word. What is the word? The word is Jesus' teaching about the kingdom of God. That Jesus is about to be the forever king promised from the Old Testament. The word about Jesus. Verse 15. Some people are like the seed along the path where the word is sown. As soon as they hear it, Satan comes and takes away the word that was sown in them. So what happened on the path? Remember, the path is the part that's hardened. It's treaded. It's walked down. It's compacted. Those are people whose hearts are so hard and so rough and so angry and so bitter that the truth about who Jesus is can't penetrate. That's what Jesus is saying. The hard, packed down, rough, gruff land, the ground won't even receive the seed because it's too hard. Then we get to verse 16. And why then does Satan get to take the seed away? Because the ground was so hard it couldn't receive it. It just went in one ear and right out the other. Verse 16. Others, like the seed sown on rocky places, they hear the word, they receive it with joy. Be careful, church. Remember, there are rocks below the surface, right? We said that. You can't see them on the top. Here's what I need you to understand. Here's like the 2.0 level understanding of this parable. The next three persons, the rocky soil, the thorns, and the good soil, they all look the same. Oops. They all look the same in the beginning. They all look the same in the beginning. They start growing. They have joy. But verse 17. Since they have no root, they only last a short time. Why? Because you didn't clean the rocks. Because you didn't clean the rocks out from underneath. And the rocks choked out the roots. And then the roots killed the fruits before it could ever grow. You've got to deal with the rocks. So that's the second group. Remember, this is all private. Jesus is teaching to his faithful followers at this point. Verse 18. Still others, like seeds sown on thorns, they hear the word, but there's something competing with the seed for the growth. There's something pre-existent that's competing with the truth about Jesus in their heart. And it's growing up and it's getting all viney and thorny. And it chokes out the truth about Jesus. And what is that something? Jesus says it right here in verse 19. The worries of life, the deceitfulness of wealth, and the desires for other things. Worry is being distracted from genuine faith because you're thinking about something fearfully that hadn't happened yet. Wealth is being distracted because of genuine faith because of the love of money. And desires, that word carries the physical lustful connotation that you think it does. In the original Greek, that word could have been translated lust and or covet. You want something somebody else has more than what you have. You don't know how to be happy and genuinely excited about your blessings because somebody else has the bigger the better, the better color blessing. And so that chokes. And what does this do? Remember, it chokes out the seed before it can ever bear fruit. What's the point of the seed? The point of the seed is to bear fruit. Finally, verse 20. Others are like seeds sown on good soil. Now keep in mind this is the last 25% of the seed. 75% of the seed sown by the farmer is unfruitful. Only the last 25 that gets on the good soil. What's the good soil? The good soil is the soil that's not hard hearted. The good soil is the soil that's not hiding rocks below the surface. And the good soil is the soil that dealt with the weeds and got it out of the way. That good soil, verse 20, produces a crop. Some 30, some 60, some 100 times what was sown. That's the good soil. Now why does Jesus choose to teach the explanation? Remember Jesus uses stories to teach lessons. Jesus taught the lesson privately to the faithful. He taught the story publicly on the beach. Why? Because Jesus knows that not all hear it will believe. I mean I hate to be the bearer of bad news. But not everyone who hears the message of Jesus believes it. Not everybody who hears the message of Jesus receives it, accepts it and commits to it. That's why we got to keep giving the message of Jesus. Because every week, somebody might be coming in here who's got the hard packed down soil. It's one of the things I love about being a worshiper and having been a worship leader. My view, what does worship do in the church service? Worship's the plow man. They get up here and they throw it down and they rip it up. And worship plows up the ground of our heart. All week long between work and worry and news and social media. And all we're doing is we're just packing down our hearts. We're making our hearts hard. And then the worship team comes in and they just bust it wide open. Like a plow. Just boom. Frank, I'm not calling you a cow. Just making an analogy. Right? The worship team comes through and they plow up the ground of our hearts. They get us to open back up to the spirit and ready to receive the seed which is the word. But some of us, we come to church and we've got some hidden stuff. Right? Now I'm going to make everybody uncomfortable. You've got some hidden rocks below the surface of your life. Below the surface of your heart. It's the person you are when no one's looking. It's the things you look at on your phone when you don't know that anybody's watching. Right? There's things hiding below the surface. We come to church, I don't know about you, but I grew up, I grew up as an only child. If that doesn't make any sense about my personality. I grew up as an only child and I grew up going to church with my family all the time. And you know what we did? Especially when I was a teenager. And for all of you teenagers, this doesn't apply to you. But most teenagers are crazy. Okay? Most teenagers. Not y'all. Y'all are amazing. But most teenagers are crazy. I remember being a teenager. Being in the back seat of my mom and dad's, my dad had a Ford Explorer at the time. And we would be fighting like cats and dogs. We'd be yelling. My mom would be reaching back behind her seat. Smacking me on the knee. Smacking me in the head. And then you know what? This magic thing happened. The moment the front wheels of my dad's truck touched the church parking lot. It was like, ohhhhh. Everybody got super spiritual. Everybody got re-saved every single Sunday. As soon as we pulled in the church parking lot and we got out and what we do? We put on our church smiles and we had our nice clothes on. And it was praise God. Come on. I'm sure I'm the only one, right? I'm sure. I know. I know. I get it. Why? Because my family had rocks below the surface they didn't want to address. That's the truth. So if that's you this morning, it's totally okay. You don't have to tell me about the rocks. Just don't think I'm stupid enough to not believe they ain't there. Just because you can't see them on the surface, you know what's below the surface. And then finally you got the thorns. Some of you, some of us, I'll say us, some of us, there are things in our life that are above the surface. That worry. Man, that's a big monster. The worry monster is a big deal. You know? And I dislike the oversimplification that if you just had enough faith you wouldn't have worry. I don't think it's true. I think Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane, when he said, Father, you know what? And I'm going to paraphrase for you. This is the new international bill version. Jesus looks up to his Father in heaven and says, yo, Dad, for real, if there's any way that I cannot do that, it'd be really great. You know? There's nothing wrong with seeing Jesus' humanity. He knew everything that would happen to him before he was ever incarnate within Mary's womb and still chose. So what's the difference? You can know bad things are coming and still choose to embrace them because there's a God who's bigger than whatever's coming tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you, baby. Finally, placing one's faith in Christ requires an act of will as much as an act of the mind. See, the first soil was too hard. That's willful. The second soil had rocks hidden below the surface. That's willful. The third soil had the vines. The fourth soil said, listen, Jesus, let's just put the seed in and see what happens. Is the soil in control of the seed? No. That's the other cool thing. We already said it. When you plant tomato seeds, what do you get? Tomatoes. Tomatoes. When you plant corn, what do you get? Corn. The soil doesn't determine the fruit. It's merely the place the seed grows. So you don't have to take responsibility for the Word of God. You have to allow yourself to be transformed by the Word of God. That's the difference. The Word doesn't change. We change because of the Word. Now, I said at the very beginning of my message, I believe every person, every week, can take a next step to be more like Jesus. So do me a favor. Pull out your phones. Those of you who are watching online, do me a favor. Pull out your phone. There is a brand new website sitting there at catalyst302.com. I want you to take your phone and I want you to go to that website. If you're joining us online and you happen to be on a computer, go ahead and open another tab. iPad, open another tab. If you're on your phone, I need you to write this website. When you load catalyst302.com, the very first thing you're going to see is our logo and our mission statement. Relentlessly loving people to take a next step. And then you're going to see a box that says next step. I want you to click it. That box right there is our digital connection card. It sits online 24 hours a day so that whenever someone is ready to take a next step, that tool is going to be sitting there. That tool, so everybody right now, go to catalyst302.com, click on the button that says next step, and you're going to see it opens a little form right there on your phone. That's how you're going to respond today. And for every one of my messages, and the next thing you're going to ask is, hey, pastor, who gets to see what I type into these little boxes? Just me. When you fill out that form, that form triggers an email that goes directly to my personal email inbox. Donna's not going to see it. Paul doesn't get to see it. The elders, the deacons, they don't get to see that. This is your way to talk directly to me. All morning, I've been talking to you. Now, it's your turn to talk back to me. So, what is your next step going to be today? I gave you 5 choices. And these are the 5 choices I believe every single Christian should take and then every single Christian should help someone else take. So, the first one is, I need to surrender to Christ. Maybe, just maybe. You're the person who's been so hard hearted, you've not been willing to receive that. You've not been willing to receive the word about Jesus. That's where this whole Christian thing starts. We have to start by accepting that Jesus is who he says he is, and he did what he says he did. If that's you today, the first step in your Christian walk needs to be, I repent of my sins and I accept forgiveness in Jesus. That's surrender to Christ. The second one, I need to get baptized. If you go all throughout the New Testament, they were pretty darn clear. Saved, baptized. Saved, baptized. In fact, I'll let you in on a little secret. We have 2 baptisms in about 5 minutes. 2 people responded last week when all I had was an email address and said, man, I need to get baptized. So, we've got 2 baptisms today. I will baptize every single week as long as people are ready to make that step and that commitment. And when we get to that part, I'll talk more about what baptism means. The third one is, live by the spirit. I believe every single Christian who's alive today has the spirit of God within them. But that does not mean every Christian alive today obeys the spirit of God within them. Sometimes we still have a little bit of struggle between the flesh and the spirit. I get that. Maybe you need to take a step this week. You need to say, wow, I've been struggling in XYZ area or the reverse. I've not been doing ABC discipline that I should be doing. Man, I need to develop prayer life. Man, I need to talk to somebody about this. I need to come up with a better way to study my Bible. I need to worship better. Maybe your step can be getting rid of a sin or your step can be stepping into God. So that's live by the spirit. The next one, join in community. I'll say this out loud, especially for all of you who are joining us online. I love you to death. You cannot be a healthy Christian watching TV at home. Being a Christian is about being connected to a body. You have to. And you know how I know that? Because the body said or the Bible says that each one of us is only one piece of the body. So if I'm the stomach, because I love food, right? That's easy. That's easy transition. If I'm the stomach, I'm not the brain. I'm not the eyes. I'm not the ears. I'm not the elbows. I'm not the skeleton. I'm not the hands. I'm not the feet. I'm not the face. Thank goodness I'm not the face. We'll leave that to people like my wife, right? I'm not the face. You cannot be the whole body of Christ by yourself. No healthy Christian is an island. Can you be saved on your own by yourself? Totally true. You can. Jesus saves all day, every day, everywhere. But you cannot grow to be a healthy Christian without being connected in community. So maybe that's your step. You're like, you know what, pastor? I've been coming to church but not connecting in church. I've been watching church online, but I really need to reconnect. I get that. And the final one is partnering ministry. If the word is not bearing fruit in your life, you're not done growing. So let me ask you a simple question. How do we determine when plants, animals, and humans are mature? How do we determine that? When they're big. Well, it's not just about size. Elephants can be born big. It's when they're able to reproduce. That's the true sign of maturity. So no matter how long you've been a Christian, whether it's five minutes or 50 years, I'm going to ask you a simple question. How many other Christians have you helped make? Right? Some of us, that's what we commit ourselves to. Some of us, that's a little scary. I get that. But I believe every single disciple should be a disciple maker. Every single Christian should be a Christian baker. You should help make more Christians. If you're not ready to do that yet, if you don't know how to do that, guess what? That's what your little card's for. And then underneath of that, you see there's a blank spot, and it says, What's your step and how can we help? You put in your name, your email address, pick your next step, and tell me what you need. Tell me how I can help you. I mean, 25 or so people responded to my email last week. I emailed all of them. Most of them within minutes of their email coming in. Monday morning, I just sat there. It took me like an hour and a half to contact everybody. Suggested some books, prayed on the phone. That's my job. That's why I'm here, is to help you become the kind of Christians you're supposed to be. This one little fraction where I get to talk is one thing. Now, I've ran super long, so here's what I want to do. Worship team, I'd like to ask you to come back up on the stage. I'm going to pray, and I'm going to hand the sword to our worship team, because we've got two people who are going to get baptized, and I want to celebrate that. In a moment, our children, here they come. They're going to come back in. Our children need to be a part of worship. They need to be a part of worship. They need to see the church in action. Because believe it or not, Christians are made downstairs in kids' church. They're just educated up here when we're adults. So church, give the worship team a minute. They're going to lead us in a song. My two baptism candidates, you know who you are. Go ahead and go through those doors. We're going to go upstairs, and then after the song, we're going to come back, and we're going to celebrate two really awesome baptisms. Heavenly Father, I thank you for the privilege of teaching your word and being a part of this church. I thank you for the privilege of discipling and baptizing Lord Jesus Christ. I thank you for the privilege of discipling and baptizing Lord. Have your spirit rest with us this week. In Jesus' name, amen.