So today, as you guys know, is New Year's Eve. New Year's Eve and New Year's Day are oftentimes that we take to evaluate our lives as people. We often take this time of the year to do things, to evaluate how the past year went, but also to look forward to the new year. We look back at the previous year and evaluate all of the things we have done the previous year. We get year-in-review videos. We get recaps of the music we listen to, Facebook puts together collaborations of the different pictures and posts that we made over the year, the friends we made. We look back at all this. We look back at the good times, the bad times. We hope that the good that we did outweighs the bad we did. And we look back. We remember vacations, birthdays, holidays, family time, and so much more. But we also remember the bad time, the times we messed up, the times we failed, the times we disappointed others, and the times we could have done better. But usually the next step of New Year's Eve and New Year's Day and thinking about the past year is looking forward to the next year. This is the time of year we often look at where we currently are and we make resolutions to think about where we'd like to be. We think about different ways we think we could improve, how we can get there. I'm sure all of us have probably made a New Year's resolution at some point. We probably all have kept them 100% of the time, right? And so we look at our life and we evaluate where we'd like to improve and we set things on what we want to do. We make resolutions, maybe eat better, exercise more, spend less money, self-care more, read more books, learn a new skill, get a new job, spend more time with God. We make more and more and more things that we want to do. We set these evaluations by looking back in our lives and seeing what we didn't do well and looking forward to see what we'd like to do better. That's why today I want to talk about the idea of legacy. When you think about legacy for your life, lots of things come to mind. Maybe we think about the legacy of important people. We think about the best baseball player, best football player, or best musician in their legacy. But we can also think about our own legacy. What will we be remembered by? You think about the legacy that you leave behind entails three things. It entails your past, entails your future, but it also entails your present. Your legacy entails your past because you look back to see where you've come from. You look back at the good and the bad you've done, and you either try to forget about it or change it to do better. You look forward to the future to see the legacy that you'll leave behind. We look forward to see what we want to accomplish and we want people to remember us by. But I think that's where we often do bad is remembering the present. We have the future of where we want to get to, but we don't often do well at the present of making the small details today that matter towards getting to the future we want to get to. I think at times we don't accomplish the most important steps of creating the small steps that matter in the present. So let's see what Paul has to say about what legacy we should leave behind. So if you guys have your Bibles, we're going to be in Philippians 3 today. Philippians 3, it'll be up on the screen too, or you can turn it in the Bibles. But Philippians 3 is a book written by the Apostle Paul to the Church of Philippi. The Church of Philippi was a church that Paul loved. They were a church that did a lot for Paul. They helped fund his ministry, they supported him, they cared for him, and he truly appreciated them. They were also a church that he spent a long time with. He was there for about three months. It was actually the place where he was in jail in one of his earlier stories. At the time of writing Philippians, Paul is currently in jail also, or on house arrest, so he's writing to them with a different kind of mindset. So at this point, he has nothing, he's on house arrest, and he's writing to people who he truly appreciated and giving them words of advice. It's kind of interesting about Philippians because most of his letters are written to churches who have done something wrong, and he's rebuking them or encouraging them to do better, but the Church of Philippians does that a little bit, but it's also an encouraging book to the Church for what they have done currently. So let's see what Paul writes in Philippians 3, and it'll be on the screen. Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same thing to you is no trouble, and it is good for you. Look out for the dogs, look out for the evildoers, look out for those who mutilate the flesh, for we are the circumcision who worship by the Spirit of God, and glory in Christ Jesus put no confidence in the flesh. Though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also, if anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more. Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as to the law a Pharisee, as to zeal a persecutor of the church, as to righteousness under the law blameless. But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ, and be found in him not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Jesus, the righteousness from God, that depends on faith. That I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death. That by any means possible, I may attain the resurrection from the dead. Not that I have already attained this, or am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Jesus Christ has made me his own. Brothers, I do not consider that I have it on my own, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead. I press on towards the goal of the prize of the upwards call of God in Christ Jesus. Let those of us who are mature think this way, and if anything you think otherwise, God will reveal that also to you. Only let's hold true to what we have attained. Brothers, join in imitating me and keeping your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. For many of whom I have often told you, and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Jesus. Their end is destruction, their God is in their belly, and their glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who would transform from our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him, even to the subject of all things, to himself. I think when we look at this passage, we kind of see a lot of the concepts we were just talking about, legacy, of looking back, looking forward, and doing things today to make a difference. So let's see what this chapter, what Paul talks about. It first warns the Philippians to watch out for dogs. For us in America, this can be a kind of weird concept because we often love dogs, we have dogs as pets, and we often run up whenever we see a dog in public with no fear. I think of that like with Tristan. Tristan loves our dog, he'll jump on our dog, rides our dog like a horse, pulls his fur, does everything to this dog and he won't bite him, but because of that he has no fear of dogs, and will run up to any other dog he sees. He doesn't understand the damage and the conflict they could cause. The Philippians in this case would have understood this. They would have understood the packs of wild dogs walking the streets that could tear up trash, or would attack people that walk by yapping and snarling at them, like an angry dog, or maybe even like a rabid dog we could think of. But another part of the story is that the Jewish people would often call the non-Jewish people dogs. So what Paul is doing here, he's turning around that word that the Jewish people would use against other people and turning it around to talk about the Jewish people. He's comparing them to dogs and less than a good person. Not only is he calling them dogs, but he also calls them evildoers. Paul goes on to say that they're mutilating the flesh, or in other words that they're forcing the Gentile believers to get circumcised, and don't worry I'm not going to have a whole message on circumcision, I'll let Pastor Bill handle that one. But we know that the covenant of circumcision was very important to the Jewish people. It's something that they lived by, and to be truly Jewish in their time, they had to be circumcised. What Paul is saying is that these Jewish people are saying that the covenant of circumcision is more important than the gospel of Jesus. It was kind of like, if you could maybe consider it this way, like you think about the super conservative people when you go to church and you have to be dressed super nice to come to church, or you have to read a certain translation of the Bible, or you have to do this and this. That not being a Christian or understanding what God has done for us isn't important enough to the call of God is what they're trying to say. They're saying, yeah, you might believe in Jesus, but you haven't done this yet, or you haven't done this yet, and you still need to do all these things before you can believe and be truly one with Jesus. But Paul shuts down this thinking. He clarifies that they were the true circumcision. And by this he's not saying that they were circumcised or any of this, but what he's trying to say is the point of Jesus dying on the cross wasn't to make our flesh more important or to make our earthly time more important. He came down, died on the cross, and gave us the Holy Spirit so that we could be one with him forever. He's saying that the thing is more of how we feel and our belief in God and our love for Jesus is more important than the ritual things we can do. We can think about this like communion. We take communion once a month, and how often do we go through communion just doing it because we know we're supposed to? It's not the act of communion that is important, but it's our heart through communion. This is what Paul's trying to get at. Paul shares all of this, however, to set up his first argument. These Jewish Christians, they are Christians who believe in Jesus, are saying they're more important because they were Jewish first. But Paul goes here and says that this is a bad thinking. He goes, oh cool, you're Jewish, right? I get it. That's good, like you believed in God, you did all these things that you were supposed to do in the old covenant. But did you forget that I'm also Jewish? You know I'm circumcised too, right? Not only am I circumcised, but I was at the tribe of Benjamin who King Saul came from. And then he keeps going on and on, and he talks about how I was also a Pharisee, like I held the law to the upmost standard. The Pharisees would literally separate themselves from society in order that they would keep every single small detail of the Jewish law. Not only that, but he was willing to go as far as persecuting Christians before becoming a Christian because he held that standard to such a high standard. In other words, he's saying, if any of you have a reason to say that you're better than someone else for your Jewish laws, it'd be me. And I'm here telling you, it's not important. What's important is the cross of Jesus. Not that you forget about the past because it got him to where he was, but you look forward to what Jesus has done and will continue to do. He was in those people's shoes, but Paul realized it was never enough. God didn't want brainless followers, but he wanted a relationship. He goes on and continues in verses 7 to 8 and say that these things got me nothing. Paul is saying that these people he referred to as evildoers or dogs would be proud to claim his pedigree. They'd probably put it on a nice shelf, put his diploma on the back wall, have a little trophy case in the front of the church, showing all the things they did. But Paul doesn't want any of this. Paul tried that path to please God through the flesh, those actions, and it got him nothing. It got him nowhere. It's not that these things were inherently bad or evil. It wasn't that he was sinning by doing them, but Paul is saying they meant nothing in comparison to having a relationship with Jesus. Paul in creating the legacy that he has left is by looking back at his past and realizing how his past may have had some good times, some bad times, and some really bad times with persecuting the church, but all of that meant nothing. He could forget about his past as long as he looked forward to his future. He's saying getting that job, that pay raise, that new car, that house, or anything on your list of things that you wanted to accomplish or accomplished in the past year mean nothing if they have no meaning for eternity. But instead, Paul begins to look forward. He looks forward to the benefit of Jesus and what that brings instead. As we go forward, we're going to look in verses 9 through 11 where he starts sharing what a personal relationship with Jesus looks like and brings instead. He says how righteousness from God depends on faith, not actions. It's the idea that works without faith is dead. Paul isn't saying living the right way is wrong, but he is saying if you care about what others think more than your relationship with God, you're doing something wrong. Paul then starts off by describing what he would like to see his future self look like. He wants this to be someone who would know God. It's kind of like a weird concept to hear, know God, right? When we think about this and we read it, we'll probably first assume he just wants to know more about God or maybe read more stories about Jesus and all these things, and I think that could be true to a point, but I think it's also the idea of knowing somebody. Now, if I were to ask you if you know somebody, right, or myself, I know my wife relatively well, but she might disgrace some days, but I know my wife, but if I were to say I know my wife, but I also know somebody I went to middle school with that I'm just Facebook friends and haven't talked to in 15 days, those have drastic differences, right? I might know both people, but I know one significantly more. What he's saying here is he wants to have a personal relationship with Jesus, to know him as a close friend or like how we know like a significant other, but even more so because we can still hide things from close friends or significant others, but we can't from Jesus. He wants to know Jesus and the power of his resurrection, the resurrection that gave birth and everlasting life and forgiveness of sin. It's not Paul saying he didn't know these things before because the book of Philippians was written relatively towards the end of Paul's life, but what he's saying is even though I've done this and studied this for a long time, I can still grow closer, I can still know more. He then goes on to say he wants to share it in the suffering of Jesus and look forward to the resurrection from the dead. Paul knew that future promises were so much better than anything that he could have on this world. That's why it's important to remember that at the time of readiness, Paul was arrested. He had lost so much at this point. He had lost freedom, the ability to go visit the old friends and family that he had made, the brothers and sisters in Christ among the different churches he had visited. He had lost that freedom. But Paul knew looking forward to the future was so much more important than anything he had accomplished so far. If Paul were to make a resolution here, it would probably look pretty similar to ours at times. It would be to know God better. Maybe Paul would add on something about trying to get out of jail and be better, but his goal would be to know God better, to have a stronger relationship with God, which is something I think oftentimes we put on our resolutions. We might have worldly things that we put on there to do better, which is good, but we also oftentimes say we're going to commit to reading the Bible more, praying more, doing these things. Paul, who looked at and is considered as one of the greatest Christians of all time, who wrote a large part of the New Testament, still said he had more to learn. So looking at Paul's legacy at this point, we've looked at his past. We've seen where he's come from, the good, the bad he did in his past. We've seen how he's looking to his future, who he wants to be and what he wants to accomplish. So now we have to look to see how he gets there. How do we get there? So looking at Paul's legacy here, we are left with the present of Paul's life. At the writing of this passage, Paul makes it clear that he is not perfect. I think at times today we look at people in the Bible like Paul or maybe other big heroes of the faith, and we think about how perfect they look and how great they are, how easy it was for them to live this way or do the right things. And then we look at our lives and say, we messed up so much, how come we can't do that? And maybe not just people of the Bible, we look at pastors or elders or deacons or kids look at parents or friends. We always are looking up to somebody else and thinking about how can we be more like them? They look so perfect in our eyes, even though, honestly, they probably evaluate their own lives and think about all the times they mess up and do wrong. Paul here tells the Philippians that he still has a long way to go. And in my honest opinion, if Paul was humble enough, as what we consider one of the greatest Christians, to admit that he had a long way to go, I don't think any of us have room to even come close to saying we're perfect at times. But he is saying the way he presses on each and every day, striving to do better, is because Jesus has made him know him as his own, through his death on the cross. He also says he strives forward by not dwelling so much on the past, but instead by looking forward to the benefits of the future. Paul could get discouraged in this situation of being arrested or losing the freedom to go visit friends and family, but he knows that is nothing in comparison to eternity. Next, Paul encourages the Philippians to adopt the same attitude that he has. It's the attitude that he's encouraged his desire to live more and more for God each day. He prays that those who don't have that attitude pray to have it, and that those who have it keep working towards it. I think we kind of go through those valleys and hills of life, where maybe one week we're really on fire for God, and the next we feel like we're at the lowest we've ever been, and then maybe the next week we're higher. We have those valleys of life. But what Paul is saying is encouraging us to reach for the high points, to reach for the points where we're living for God and desiring to be closer to him. The third way Paul encouraged the believers to become more like Christ each and every day was to imitate the giants of the faith who have come before them. In the Philippians' case, he encouraged them to imitate himself. I don't think this was Paul trying to be cocky, like, hey, I'm better than you, like, look to me and see how great I am. But what it was, was Paul was telling them, live, like he said in 1 Corinthians, imitate me as I imitate Christ. We can look at people around us, and we think about people in our lives, like we just mentioned, who maybe we think have it more together than us. We think about, like, the pastors or the elders, and we think about the people around us who are more like Christ. We think about people who have spent many years studying the Bible and trying to pour into other people. Or we think about other people in our lives, maybe friends, family, or people in the Bible. And we think about how they're striving to imitate Christ. It's not saying they're perfect 100% of the time. It doesn't say they don't make wrong decisions or mess up. But it's saying that we can see that they're striving for that goal, and we're coming alongside of them to try to imitate them as they imitate Christ. And we're trying to imitate them as they imitate Christ. We're coming alongside of them to try to imitate them as they imitate Christ. Not because of their own doing, but they're looking to be more like Christ each and every day. I think today with technology we kind of have it easy and worse sometimes, because we can go online and we can see the lives of pastors on social media or mega churches or different places and learn from them and study from them. Which also can be bad because we also see when they mess up and they fail. But I think at times we have so many examples of people who have gone before us that we shouldn't take disadvantage of those examples that they've laid for us. People in the church like Buzzy and Bill who have laid the groundwork for us to follow. So Paul's legacy consisted of leaving his past failures behind, looking forward to his future eternity with Jesus. It was built on each and every day by living more for Jesus and getting to know Jesus more each and every day. So there was a man who lived in the early 1900s called William Borden. I'm not sure if any of you guys have heard the story of William Borden. But Borden was from a wealthy family. Upon graduating from high school he traveled the world. Upon doing this travel, going many different places, he felt a call to missionary work. Which for him, it was him seeing all the different things happening in the world and saying that's what I want to do. But from where he came from of a wealthy family, many people had expectations for him to take over the family business and do that side of thing. But he came back and said, no, this is more important. I'm going to study to be a missionary. At that time, Borden wrote in the back of his Bible the words, no reserve. He didn't want anything to hold him back. Even though he was wealthy, he arrived on the campus of Yale University. And for you guys who don't know, Yale University and many of the Ivy Leagues were before founded on Christian principles, so a lot of them had schools of affinity. And many of them still have it, but we just don't focus on it as much. But so he arrived at Yale University in 1905 trying to look like just one more freshman. Very quickly, however, Borden's classmates noticed something unusual about him. And it wasn't that he had a lot of money. One of them wrote, he came to college far ahead of us spiritually than any of us. He had already given his heart in full surrender to Christ, and he had really done it. We who were his classmates learned to lean on him and find him in a strength that was as solid as a rock, just because he had settled purpose and consecration. So during his college years, Bill Borden made an entry in his personal journey that defined what his classmates were seeing in him. And in that entry, he simply said, say no to self and yes to Jesus every single time. Borden's first disappointment at Yale came when the university president spoke in a convocation about the students' need of having a fixed purpose. After that speech, Borden wrote, he neglected to say what our purpose should be and where we should get the ability to preserve and the strength to do so. And where we should get the ability to preserve and the strength to resist temptations. Surveying the Yale faculty and many of the student body, Borden lamented on what he saw and the end result of an empty humanistic philosophy. During his first semester at Yale, Borden started to... That would transform campus life. One of his friends described how it began, and it was well on in the first term when Bill and I began to pray together in the morning before breakfast. I cannot say positively who's suggestion it was, but I feel sure it was originated with Bill, is what his friend wrote. They had been meeting only a short time when a third student joined them and began to pray, and then a fourth. The time was spent in prayer after a brief reading of scripture. Bill's handling of scripture was helpful. He would read us from the Bible, show us something that God had promised, and then proceed to claim the promise with assurance. Borden's small morning prayer group gave birth to a movement that soon spread across campus. By the end of his first year, 150 freshmen were meeting weekly for Bible study and prayer. By the time Bill Borden was a senior, 1,000 of Yale's 1,300 students were meeting in such groups. Borden made its habit to seek out the worst students and try to bring them to salvation. In his sophomore year, they had organized Bible study, and they would go around with the leaders of the group taking straws on who to take what names. And whenever there was a pause on who should take a certain student, he would chime up and say, I'll take him. It didn't matter who it was, he wanted to take the hard prospects in order to bring him to Christ. Borden's missionary call eventually narrowed to the Muslim people in China, and he fixed his goals on that. So eventually he graduated, and upon graduating he was offered many high-paying jobs. But he turned them all down, and in his Bible, under the words where he had previously written, he wrote, People were trying to get him to stay, take many jobs, work in the family business, but he said that wasn't enough and wrote no retreats. So upon graduating, he sent out to go to China to work with the Muslim people, but he stopped in Egypt first to study Arabic so he could speak to the people. But within a month of being there, he contacted spinal meningitis and died within a month of being there. So we look at that story, right, and it's kind of like a sad story, especially like a sad ending, and we think about how it was kind of like a loss or a failure in a sense. But Borden didn't look at it that way. When his family eventually got his Bibles, they saw that there was another word written in his Bible, and it was no regrets, that he had written on his deathbed. So I say this story because he wrote the six words, no reserves, no retreats, and no regrets. The reason that's important to me is because at Lancaster Bible College, above the back doors of the chapel as you left chapel were those six words written, no reserve, no retreat, and no regrets. This was an encouragement to us to live each and every day as Borden did or as Paul did. Neither of them lived as men who looked back at the past and tried to live in their past, and they looked towards the future of who they wanted to be, and they lived each and every single day as somebody with no reserve, no retreats, and no regrets. So as we come back to the concept of legacy, and I'll ask you again, when you think about the legacy of your life, what do you think of? When you think about your past and your legacy up to this point, are you proud of it? Would it be a legacy that you'd be proud of people hearing about in the future? Would it be a legacy that has meaning for eternity or just for the world? So my encouragement today is as we go into the new year, and we make resolutions to lose weight and be more productive and do things better than we used to do before, let's make resolutions to also grow in our faith, to look forwards to the future promises of God and Jesus, and not just look forward to those promises, but figure out how we can live today to do better. Whether it's committing to reading our Bible more every day and sticking to it, making time for prayer and not saying I'll just get to it when I get there, or whatever it is in your life, let's look forward to how we can live today in the present to make a legacy we're proud of in the future. So let's pray. Dear God, thank you for this day. Thank you as we sit here and we talk about the past year, and we remember many of the good times and maybe the bad times. Help us to look forward to the future. Help us to look forward to the future promises that you promised for us as believers. Help us to look forward to the people that you want us to be and look like, and help us to make the changes today to get to those promises. It's not always easy to live today with no reserves, no retreats, and no regrets, but help us to imitate others that strive after you, and help us to find people who can help encourage us and help us get there. What you do for us in your name. Amen.