Well, good morning again. Now you guys all look normal. When I stand down there, I can't see everybody's faces. Welcome to Catalysts. My name is Bill. So here at our church, we're about one thing, and that is loving people to life change in Christ. Loving people to life change in Christ. It's not just that we love you, but our love for you has a purpose. And whether you are here in the sanctuary with us or whether you are joining us online, we love you. But we love you enough to tell you the truth. I don't want you to stay the same. I don't want to love the same person today that I did last year, because then that means there's no life change in your life. And Jesus isn't doing anything new in your day to day, and that's not okay with me. And that's not okay with us. So if you are here this morning worshiping with us, we love you. If you're joining us online, we love you too. But we love you for a purpose, and that is to see Jesus do a work in your life. Now normally this would be where I would introduce our new sermon series and start giving you the back story. We're not going to do that today. Today I've got a singular standalone sermon that has a singular purpose. So today's sermon is just entitled Rescue. Now every one of you should have one of these cards that was in your seat. Hold on to it, because we're going to be looking at it and referring to it as I go through my sermon. But you can see there the front says Rescue to free from confinement, danger, or evil. Now those of you who have your Bibles, I'm going to ask you that you turn or tap with me to the book of Acts chapter 17. The book of Acts chapter 17. While you guys are turning and tapping to Acts, let's go ahead and review the big Bible story. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. That's right. Then He places two people in the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve. That's right. Then sin enters in chapter 3. They are pushed out of the Garden of Eden. Fast forward a little bit more. God sends a flood but provides rescue through a man named Noah. Noah and his three sons survive the flood. They restart humanity. And in chapter 12, God has a covenant with a man named Abram. He changes his name to Abraham. That's the Abrahamic covenant. I will be your God. You will be my people. And that is the beginning of the Hebrew nation. Now, Abram has a special son named Isaac. Isaac has a son named Jacob. Jacob has 12 sons. And those 12 sons will be the names of the 12 tribes of Israel. That gets us to the end of the book of Genesis. That's how much important Bibliology is in the book of Genesis. If you've never read the book of Genesis, please do yourself a favor and read it. If you have questions, text me, email me. But there's an awful lot that the book of Genesis establishes for us. Then the children of Israel move into Egypt at the end of Genesis. Then the new Pharaoh who didn't know Joseph comes along, enslaves them. They're slaves. They cry out for a deliverer. And so, God sends them a man named Moses. Moses and his brother Aaron and their sister Miriam. 10 plagues. They ultimately leave Egypt and they walk across a body of water on dry ground. The Red Sea. Then they were supposed to go right to Canaan. But they didn't because they had a disobedient problem. So, how many years did they wander in the wilderness? 40. That's right. That's the book of Numbers. That's Deuteronomy. Then ultimately, a man named Joshua leads them into the promised land. They move in and that starts the period of judges where everybody does what is right in their own eyes. And then Israel wants something like all the other kids have. What does Israel want? A king. And therefore, who's the first king of the Anunnah Marnakee of Israel? Saul. Followed by? Solomon. That's right. Saul, David, Solomon. And then what happens after Solomon? Civil war. That's right. And the kingdom of God fractures into the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. And that is the way they remain for the next couple hundred years. And they're still disobedient. So, then God sends them into exile. In come the Assyrians who defeat the northern kingdom of Israel. Then the Assyrians are defeated by the Babylonians. The Babylonians come in. They defeat the southern kingdom of Judah. They carry everybody off into exile. So, that's where Daniel and his lion's den story takes place. Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego. Ultimately, the Babylonians get defeated by the Persians. And that's where Esther comes in for such a time as this. That's the Persian Empire. Then finally, after the story of Esther, a Persian king named Darius shows up. He says, you know what? I think everybody can just go home. It's fine with me. Vic, just take your kids. Go home. Everybody go home. So, then they move back into the land of Canaan. There's Ezra. There's Nehemiah. And then ultimately, the Old Testament ends with the promise of a forerunner and a messiah who will restore the nation of Israel. The four... So, then how many years between the Old Testament and the New Testament? 400 years. That's right. For 400 years, God is totally silent. He says nothing to His people. And then God breaks that silence by sending an angel to speak in the temple to a man named Zechariah. He says to Zechariah, Yo, Zech, you've been really good. I know you've been praying. You're going to have a son. He's going to be a very special son. He's going to be blessed by the Holy Spirit from birth. He will make the way for my messiah. The name of Zechariah's very special son is John the Baptist. John the Baptist is the forerunner who precedes the messiah of Israel whose mother is Mary, whose stepfather is Joseph, and whose name is Jesus. Pretty big deal in the New Testament. Not trying to spoil it. Then Jesus has an earthly ministry for 3 years. He is sacrificed on a cross. 3 days later, He resurrects. Then how... Okay, here's one. How many days post-resurrection does Jesus teach on earth before His ascension? Anybody? 40 days. That's right. For 40 days after the resurrection, Jesus teaches on earth in His glorified human form. And then He ascends in Acts chapter 1. But before He ascends, He tells them one more thing. Rick, Rick, I know you've been with me for 3 years, bro. I love you. You're looking good. But you're not ready yet. Don't leave Jerusalem. I have a gift to send to you. But I must go so my father can send the Holy Spirit. So, in Acts chapter 2, the Holy Spirit falls and that is the birth of the Christian church that you and I know today. It began in Acts chapter 2. You fast forward. Now we're going to get into territory and see who gets us. Acts chapter 2, the Holy Spirit comes down. Peter and John, they go and preach. They get thrown in jail. They get out of jail. Acts chapter 6, a guy named Stephen shows up. He preaches. They kill him. So, in Acts chapter, I think it's 9, there's a very famous Pharisee who's traveling down a road on the outside of Damascus. And God shows up and says, hey man, I want you to follow me. That very famous guy's name is? Paul. Well, Saul changes his name to Paul. Paul goes and plants churches. As Paul is planting churches, something really unique happens. All of a sudden, non-Jews start believing in Jesus. If you're a first century Jew, this is a problem. Like Nate, this is not okay. They don't eat like us. They don't talk like us. They don't dress like us. They don't pray like us. Well, in Acts chapter 10, in Caesarea Philippi, there's a Roman and God speaks to him and says, hey man, I want you to go call Peter. He's going to tell you about me. Anybody know who that Gentiles name is in Acts 10? Cornelius. Super close though. Philip was close. Cornelius, the Holy Spirit falls on the Gentiles, but this causes a problem. Wait a minute. I thought you had to be Jewish to believe in Jesus. And this tension between Jewish Christian and Gentile Christian is a racial tension. Don't get it mixed. There is a very deep racial tension in the beginning of our faith between Jewish Christians and Gentile Christians. And it is into this racial tension that we are going to jump head first today. So that's the big Bible story to get us to where we're at. We're going to specifically be in Acts chapter 17. Now let me give you the setting just so you can understand what's happening. Paul is traveling around and he is preaching. Paul goes whenever he goes to a town, he does the same thing every time. First, he goes to the synagogue and he tries to preach to the Jews. When they throw him out of town because they don't like him, then he goes into the marketplace and he starts preaching to the Gentiles. Eventually Gentiles start getting saved. So much so that in Acts 15 they have to have a whole church council and figure out what are we going to do? Are we going to make Gentiles become Jews first? How can they put their faith in a Jewish Messiah if they're not Jews? Whole big deal goes down. Acts 15, that's a cool story. By Acts chapter 17, and this is where I want you to understand. In our passage today, the Apostle Paul is in the city of ancient Athens, the very center of Greek culture. We ain't in Jerusalem no more. We're in Athens. The most famous university of its day was in Athens. The center of Jewish culture, I mean of Greek culture, of Greek thought and philosophy was there in Athens. He is not in a Jewish world right now. He is in a Gentile world. And he is sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ with people who don't believe in God. Let me say that again because that is going to sound weird if you've grown up like I have in America that was very largely Christian influenced for a really long time. I mean at one point I think over 60% of America identified as Christian. That number has been decreasing since the 1970s. So anybody who was born before 1970, we don't live in the world you were born in. And that's not meant to be offensive. I'm not trying to point that out that like you're old and I'm young and that makes me better. No. What it means is the world you were born into and the world I have to share the gospel in are no longer the same. And we've got to realize where culture is, which is why I took us here. I took us to the first place in the Bible where the Apostle Paul walks into a place where there are atheists, where there are people believes in other gods and he brings the message of Jesus Christ in a multi-religious setting. Why did I do this? Well number one because it's one of my favorite stories and I have to pick a passage to teach every single week. But more than being my favorite story, here's why I picked today. I believe that the culture that you and I live in today needs the gospel to be preached. I believe that wholeheartedly I do. But you know what I also believe? I believe the culture we live in today is tired of hearing the same Christian message that you're a sinner in need of a savior. Right? Like Nate, come on. Everybody else take five. Nate, you feel me? Right. He's sitting here nodding his head. You can't see it, but I at least have somebody younger than me to tell me I still feel like I'm right. Right? Because what we need to understand, the culture that you and I live in today is no longer primarily Christian. The culture outside of these brick walls is primarily secular. And I don't mean secular in the sense of sinful. What I mean is secular in the sense of no longer founded on religious tradition. Outside of the walls of this church, people make their decisions not based on what does God say, but they'll make their decisions based on what is most useful. Right? What is pragmatically most useful? If breaking the speed limit gets me to work faster, then that feels like it's okay to me. Or what is most comfortable? I like that... That wasn't meant to be the conviction moment, y'all. Hold on. It's coming. Sometimes we make our decisions based on what's most comfortable. I like A more than B, so I will choose A. Sometimes culture makes its decisions based on whichever voice is yelling loudest about whatever they're talking about. So we can make our decisions based on what's most practical. We can make our decisions based on what's most comfortable, or we can make our decisions based on what's most popular. Those are all secular ideals. They are secular ways of making decisions. This is the world that we live in now. And unless Christians wake up and realize that outside the walls of this church, when I say I believe in God, the first question is which one? That's new if you're raised in the church. I was. I have been sitting in church since my grandmama was old enough to hold me and smack me when I talked. I have grown up knowing my savior. I have grown up knowing my savior. I have grown up knowing my savior. I have grown up knowing my savior. I have grown up knowing my savior. But I have also grown up in the culture that lives outside these walls. And I've realized that we're no longer standing on the foundation of scripture. What I believe we need, and I don't just mean we as catalysts. I mean we as the American church. The other thing I do want to say, because I'm pretty sure my son is watching at home, and I'm going to go ahead and make, Michael, you're not here. I'm going to make the comment you're going to make. He's saying in his head, well, there are churches in China where people are afraid and they're being killed for their faith. So we just need to have more faith. Michael, you're totally right. But the fight that the American church is fighting is not against a totalitarian government. It's against a totalitarian ideology. And that ideology is all gods must be equal or you're hateful. That's an ideological battle, not a physical or governmental or military battle. So what we need to do is be ideologically wise and present the gospel. And here's, so those of you who are Christian, seatbelt for a second because this one's going to sting. I've been in ministry for 20 years and I've been a Christian for more than 40. And the only way that I was ever taught to share the gospel was I first have to convince you that you're a sinner. So then I could tell you why you need a savior. I'm in a lot of online groups with people who don't agree with our religion. And you know what's the very first thing they say? They tell me they say that's the most abusive thing I've ever heard. Convince me. I have a problem so that you can sell me the solution that only you have. That's manipulative and it's abusive. That's what culture is saying about our gospel message. Does that mean I believe the gospel's false? No. I think we need to go back to the scriptures and say, Lord, is there any advice for how we can present the gospel in such a way that we can influence culture instead of repel it? So I started searching. I started digging. Part of my job as a pastor is to deploy you to be able to share the gospel in your everyday life. Now, I'm not going to ask anyone to raise their hand, but I want you to raise your hand on the inside. I just want you to raise your hand on the inside of your head. If you shared the gospel with someone in the last, I don't know, five years, just think about it. How long have you been a Christian? And when was the last time you talked about the gospel with someone? Not somebody who's a Christian, but somebody who's not. My bet is if I was to ask everybody to open up their head and show me their mental hands, not many of us have raised our hands. You know what the truth is? I haven't shared the gospel with a single person outside of church since I moved here. Me personally. You know why that is? Because I spend most of my time around Christians. I struggle to find times to get around non-Christians. Anybody work in a non-church environment? Anybody? Show of hands. How many of you don't work in church? Right? The most of you. You guys work in a target-rich environment. I have to hope and pray that I can find somebody at the grocery store, at the Walmart, or at the bank who A, doesn't believe in Jesus, and B, has the time for me to give them a gospel presentation, or I don't get a chance. So what's my best play here? Sharita, what's my best option for getting more people to come to Jesus? It's not finding more time to spend time with unbelievers, as much as I would love to do that. My best play is to train all of you and deploy you as missionaries in your homes, in your families, and in your neighborhoods to know how to share the gospel with a culture that doesn't believe in God. Because if all of you are able to be deployable as gospel emissaries, now we've got a lot more opportunities to find different target-rich environments to share the gospel. So my sermon today is partly a sermon, because I want to kick you in the butt and get you to want to share the gospel, but it's also partly training. I want to show you a biblically-based way to share the gospel that doesn't start with convincing someone they're a sinner first. Because if we can avoid that hurdle, why wouldn't we? Right? So I've titled my sermon this morning, Rescue a Gospel Message. I want to deploy you to share this message of rescue with a culture that feels like it's allergic to the gospel. So first, let's go to the text. I want to read Acts chapter 17. We're going to read verses 16 to 31, and then I'm going to break this down and show you what was happening here and how we can apply it today. So let's start in Acts chapter 17 at verse 16. While Paul was waiting for them in Athens, he was greatly distressed to see the city was full of idols. So he reasoned in the synagogue with both Jews and God-fearing Greeks, as well as in the marketplace day by day and with those who happened to be there. A group of Epicurean and Stoic philosophers began to debate with him. Some of them said, what is this babbler trying to say? Others remarked, he seems to be advocating foreign gods. They said this because Paul was preaching the good news about Jesus and the resurrection. Then they took him and brought him into a meeting of the Areopagus, where they said to him, May we know this new teaching that you are presenting. You are bringing some strange ideas to our ears, and we would like to know what they mean. All the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there spent their time doing nothing but talking about and listening to the latest ideas. Paul then stood up in the meeting of the Areopagus and said, People of Athens, I see that in every way you are very religious. For as I walked around and looked carefully at your objects of worship, I even found an altar with this inscription, to an unknown God. So you are ignorant of the very thing you worship, and this is what I am going to proclaim to you. The God who made the world and everything in it is the Lord of heaven and earth, and does not live in temples built by human hands. And he is not served by human hands as if he needed anything rather, he himself gives everyone life and breath and everything else. From one man he made all the nations that they should inhabit the whole earth. And he marked out their appointed times in history and the boundaries of their lands. God did this so they would seek him and perhaps reach out for him and find him, though he is not far away from any one of us. For in him we live and move and have our being. As some of your own poets have said, we are his offspring. Therefore, since we are God's offspring, we should not think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image made by human design and skill. In the past, God overlooked such ignorance. But now, he commands all people everywhere to repent. For he has set a day when he will judge the world with justice by the man he has appointed. He has given proof of this to everyone by raising him from the dead. Now, that sounds kind of like, I mean, to me this sounds like an amazing sermon. So, let's rewind back to 16. I want to make a couple of points. And then I want to talk about how we're going to do this today. So, verse 16, while Paul was waiting for them in Athens, he was distressed because he saw a city full of idols. I've already pointed out Athens is the center of Greek philosophy and culture. And this city is full of idols. What is an idol? I've defined an idol as a non-divine thing that we give ourselves to. A non-divine thing that we give ourselves to. First thing I need you to understand, the culture that you and I live in is saturated with idols. They're no longer cute little statues. I mean, some of them are, to be perfectly honest. Some of them aren't. If you've ever done ministry in South Florida, trust me, Santaria is a real thing. Santaria is a real thing. And there are some real idols and statues in people's homes. But culturally, we worship idols that are now idols of the mind. So, just a couple quick things. How do you recognize an idol? An idol is anything that you make time for, you give your money to, or you measure your decisions by. That's what an idol is. Anything that you make time for, that you give your money to, and you make your decisions by. If you use it to guide your time, your money, and your decisions, it's an idol. Period. That's Pastor Bill's 1, 2, 3 for finding idols. So now think to yourself, what are the idols that we have in our culture that people give their time to, they give their money to, and they make their decisions by? There's plenty of them out there. So verse 17, He reasoned in the synagogue with both Jews and God-fearing Greeks, as well as in the marketplace day by day for those who happened to be there. The verb reasoned, just so you understand it, it means to discuss, to converse, to argue, to talk, to debate, to have dialogue. I'm so excited with this word. My wife is rolling her eyes going, oh my God, don't give my husband any reason to talk and argue. When we reason with somebody, did you notice that I never said the word preach? Did you notice that? It says, look, we can discuss, we can converse, we can argue, we can talk, we can debate, we can have dialogue. Do you know what all those words have in common? It's a two-way conversation, not a one-way preach authority. Paul, when he went into a multi-religious culture to share the gospel, he didn't go street preaching. He went street talking. He went debating. Now, also, let's be fair. He's in a city that prizes debate and dialogue. He's at the center of Greek philosophy and culture. So he went somewhere where dialogue was respected. He used the very tools that culture gave him to import the gospel in a way that culture would hear. Now, verse 18, there is a group of Epicurean and Stoic philosophers who began to debate with him. So I need you to understand who these two groups are because it sounds like, yeah, those are people and let's move on. No, these two groups are vitally important. So, Eric, check this out. Epicureans. Epicureans do not believe in divine beings of any kind. Epicureans are our modern-day atheists. So an Epicurean believes that the soul inside of your body is material. When we cease to exist, we die. That's naturalism. That's materialism. That you're nothing but a glob of evolved cells. And when the electrical impulses in your brain stop firing, you no longer exist. That is our modern-day atheists all the way back here in ancient Greece. They also believe that the greatest value in life is to be happy. That also sounds a lot like culture today, except for one thing. Happiness to an Epicurean is not how much pleasure I can take in. Happiness to an Epicurean is to live life free of excess and pain. So their idea is gods don't exist. There's no such thing as divine. When I die, I die and my body goes back to the ground. The electrical impulses stop and I no longer exist. So the only thing I need to do is live free from pain and death as long as possible. These are very materialistic, worldly thinking. Also, if gods exist, they do not interact with humans. Some of the Epicureans may say that god exists, but they don't interact with humans at all. Those of you who know worldviews, that's deism. And then the Stoics. So the Stoics are a completely different group. The Stoics 100% believe there's a god. But it's not the god like you and I believe in a personal god. Stoics believe in a god that exists within nature. This is called pantheism. Here's your Wiccans. Here's your Native Americans. Here's your African spiritualism. Here's your native Caribbean spiritualism. So those people who are spiritual but not religious, they're Stoics. They believe that there's a divine power somehow inside nature, that everything is ultimately god, which is pantheism, and also that the highest value in life is moral and spiritual self-sufficiency. So what that basically means is, Nate, be happy with whatever your lot in life is, because that's all you're going to get and you can't change it. So if you're a businesswoman, be a businesswoman. If you're a street sweeper, be a street sweeper. Be the best street sweeper you can be. Because see, the god that exists in nature doesn't care about your feelings. It's there to make sure life goes on, that there's a balance, right? The yin and yang symbol, those of you in the 80s, the yin and yang symbol from Eastern philosophy, that's a pantheistic symbol. I love it how when I make certain decade jokes, certain people laugh and other people go... You don't get to see that, but from my perspective, it's awesome. So these two groups, the Epicureans, think atheists. The Stoics think spiritualists. Now that sounds an awful lot like the culture that we live in today. There are some very loud voices out there saying that God doesn't exist, it's just a religious crutch. You know, Christopher Hitchens, religion is the worst thing that ever invented. Richard Dawkins, the god delusion, that the existence of God's delusional. There's a lot of voices out there that sound a lot like Epicureans, and there's a lot of voices that sound like Stoics. So how does Paul deal with these groups and these people? First thing is this, Paul knows his audience. That's the first thing I need to understand. Paul does not assume he's on the downtown streets of Jerusalem. Paul knows where he's at. He knows he's in Greek philosophical territory. So he's going to talk to them that way. Isn't it Paul who said, I became all things to all men that I might save a few? That's not being disingenuous. If anything, the number one thing about public speaking is know your audience, right? Know who you're talking to so you know how to talk to them. So this idea that we can just take this one perfect gospel message and keep it loaded in the gun and fire it all the time, fails because we fail to recognize if you don't first connect with the culture of your audience and you think they think like you do, you're talking on two different wavelengths. So Paul is talking to atheists and spiritualists. That's the words I'm going to use for Epicurean and Stoic. So it feels a little bit more modern day for us, but now you understand why I'm using those words. So Paul starts talking and he, I mean, to me, the coolest part of this verse is right here in verse 19. Then they took him and brought him into a meeting of the Areopagus. Paul's walking through the marketplace. I see that idol. I see that idol. Man, y'all are really crazy. What's that one? Idol to an unknown God. Okay, God, there's my door. I can use that. And then he just starts talking. He starts talking. He starts and he waits. And he waits patiently for the moment that they bring him in and put him center stage in the middle of their debates about religion. See, this isn't street preaching. This is invitational talking. That's the next thing I need you to understand about how to share the gospel. If you leave here today and assume that you can just preach at every single teller you find, you're going to turn more people off to Christianity than you're going to draw because you're trying to preach, not trying to talk. What did Paul do? Paul started conversations here, there, the next place, the next place, and he waits. He waits for the opportunity, what? To be invited in. See, when you invite me in, now we can talk talk. So I had an experience this week that was really amazing and great. I was invited in to a kitchen table conversation with a family. And in this family, the mom is a believer and one of the children claims to be an atheist. And I will just tell you right now, this is one of the most brilliant teenagers that I've ever met, like hands down, very intelligent young man. And so I was given the privilege of having dinner in this person's home. Well, guess what? When you invite me in, see, now I'm not preaching at you, right? Now we're just sitting here, we're talking. We're going to have a little strawberry shortcake, throw on some whipped cream on top, and we're going to talk. We're going to talk about God. We're going to talk about the beginning of the world. We're going to talk about physics. We're going to talk about cosmology. I mean, we're talking about morality. I mean, this kid went everywhere, trust me. All six years worth of my college education just to keep up with this 17-year-old kid who watches YouTube. That's the culture we live in today, right? Anybody can go to YouTube and look up their favorite flavor of philosophy or ideology. What is that? YouTube is the modern day areopagus. Don't mix it. YouTube is the place where everybody goes to share their thoughts, ideas, and debate the culture of the day. That's why this passage is important. So I get an invitation, and I think we sat at that dining room table for like two and a half hours. Two and a half hours. This kid had me on the ropes, and we were bobbing and weaving and dodging. And yes, there was a couple points where I used his own argument against him, and he went, oh, yeah, that doesn't work that way, does it? I said, no, it doesn't. Did this kid decide to believe in Jesus when I left the house? No. But that wasn't my goal. I didn't go there expecting that I'm going to roll out my master's degree in apologetics and wow him with a little science, and then move him with a little morality, and then walk in with a little Jesus, and whoo! God save. I didn't expect it to work like that, because I've never had it happen like that for me. You know the people that I've met who ultimately have come to Christ? It's taken months, sometimes years, of just steady, I love you kind of conversation. Man, I'm not going to let it go. And I even told him at the end of the two hour conversation, I said, young man, listen, I did not come here tonight with the intention of getting you to convert to Christianity, even though that is ultimately what he thought, right? Mom's inviting the pastor, because the pastor will get me saved. So no wonder I walked in and he was already antagonistic, right? Because he thought I was there to push him out of his own thoughts. And I said, no, young man, I didn't come to do that tonight. But I will tell you my intention, and then you measure whether I met my goal or not. And he goes, okay, hit me. I said, my intention tonight was not to convince you to be a Christian. My intention tonight was to show you that you can be a Christian and an intellectual. That faith does not require you to coat check your brain at the door and just believe things blindly. That it's okay to question, that it's okay to argue, that it's okay to debate, it's okay to discuss. I said, young man, did I meet my goal this evening? He says, yes, I think you did. If that's the only movement that we got, guess what? I'll take it. When you're farming for eternity, everything's not a drive-through. When you're farming for eternity, sometimes this is just plowing up the ground. And then waiting for the next question, waiting for the next opportunity. Here in verse 19, Paul is invited in. He's waited, he's talked, he's presented. Now he's invited in, and they bring him in, and they ask him, hey, man, what you're saying sounds kind of weird. Tell me a little more, right? Okay, I like it enough. Tell me a little bit more. And this is what's crucial. By being invited in, the audience is actually listening to what Paul has to say. When you're street preaching, I'm sorry, I know there are people who call to be street preachers, and I love them. Bro, that's not going to ever be me. That's not my flavor. I'm a relational evangelist. Let's get some coffee. Let's get some tacos. Let's get a brownie. And let's talk about what's really going on. What's your question? I always like to answer questions because questions lead to conversations. So then in 22, he stands up, and now Paul begins to deliver this super awesome sermon. And he starts not by correcting them, but by complimenting them. Look at verse 22. Then Paul stood up in the meeting of the Areopagus and said, people of Athens. Every time I read that, all I can think of is Bill and Ted's excellent adventure when they're standing at the very end. Hello, Sandinus. Sorry, you've got to deal with your ADHD pastor. It's where I am. He says, people of Athens, I see that in every way you guys are religious. He starts out by complimenting them. He starts out by putting him on their side. He says, listen, I see that you're very religious. I saw that altar. I saw that altar. But bro, you've got one about an unknown God. And then he uses what he found in culture. So you are ignorant of the very thing you worship. He uses something in culture, and he says, I can explain this to you that you don't understand. And that's his in. There's the altar to the unknown God. It's y'all's altar. It's not my altar. I didn't build that. You left it right there. But I'm going to use what I find in culture to relate to you this God that you're worshiping without knowing what it is. See that altar right there? It was already in Athens. He didn't bring... He brought in a message, but he didn't need to bring in the doorway. They left the door for him. He just walked through it. This God that you've been worshiping in an unknown fashion, I'm going to tell you about him. And then he starts, God made the world. He starts with something tangible that we can all see. In fact, it was one of the few statements that I got this young man to agree to. I said, can we both agree that the 4D space time universe that you and I live in right now exists? Trust me, that's the level of conversation we had. I said, because this young man was operating from a position of skepticism. How can you know? How can you trust? How can you believe? And so I ultimately had to get down to something that he agrees that exists. I agree that the world you and I live in exists. Okay? That's a start. Like, this is real. This is not just some sort of, you know, matrix-y illusion, right, that we were all created five minutes ago with the illusion of memory. Because if you believe that, then you can't believe anything else. In fact, you can't believe that itself. So he's like, yes, I totally believe the 4D space time universe. He finds something tangible as he walks through culture door. He finds something tangible. And then he relates it to the gospel. Look at 27. God did this so they would seek him and perhaps reach out and find him. So he uses the cultural window that altered to none other than God. He then uses something tangible that they can both agree exists. And then he uses it to point to this God who wants you to seek him. Do you see that? He's not just talking about some God existing somewhere in some metaphysical universe. He's saying, no, that God that you've been worshiping right there, he wants you to worship him. And he wants you to worship him so much that he made a way for you to do it. Also, I do want you to see here in verse 28, there's two quotes for any of you. There's two quotes for in him we live and move and have our being. And also we are his offspring. Paul quotes from two Greek philosophers of their day in his sermon. So if you ever wonder why, why do I quote from atheist books? It's because I can use their words to preach this gospel the same way Paul did. He used Greek philosophy in order to present Jesus. Then we scroll down, verse 30. In the past, God overlooked such ignorance, but now he commands people everywhere to repent. We've got to stop here. Because the word repent sounds like super churchy. And I know that. So I want to define for you exactly what this word in the Greek means. So how many people grew up in church believing that the word repent means to turn away from your sins? That's what I was taught my entire life. Repent means to turn away from your sins. That's not actually what that word means. It's how we apply that word within our Christian theological ideas. But what happens when you're talking to somebody who's not a Christian? How do I tell somebody who's not a Christian who doesn't believe that sin is even a real thing that you have to turn away from your sins? That's like saying turn away from the invisible spaghetti monster. Doesn't that sound funny? But that's exactly what happens. If you're talking to someone that doesn't believe that sin exists, turning away from sin is impossible because that thing's not real. The word repent in this Greek verse right here literally means to change your mind. See, it's not about turning away from sin. It's about turning away in the mind. It's about changing your mind about sin. That would be turning away from sin, changing your mind about sin. But here he's not asking them to change their mind about sin. Notice he never mentioned it. Paul, the apostle to the Gentiles, preaches the gospel and doesn't use the word sin. What does he say? He said, in the past, God overlooks such ignorance. Ignorance of what? Ignorance of who God really is. But now he calls people to repent. So what is the changing of the mind? It's the changing of who the real God is. That's repentance in this verse. It has nothing to do with sin. The problem with Christian theology is we only know how to interpret our words in our own little window. So if you're interpreting the word repentance when it relates to sin, then yes, it means to turn away from sin. But when you're using the word repentance in a sermon and in a context that never mentions sin, you can't put sin in the definition because that's not what he's talking about. What he's getting them to do is turn away and change their mind about God. That's the kind of repentance we need in our culture. People to change their mind about who Jesus really is. And then 31, this is how he closes it out. For he has set a day when he will judge the world with justice by the man he has appointed. He has given proof of this to everyone by raising him from the dead. And in that verse right there, Paul gives what I'm calling a three-step gospel message. So now I want everybody to pick up their rescue card. And I want to look at the back of this with you because we're bringing it in for landing here pretty soon. And I need you to understand how to use this. So for those of you who are watching online, you don't have one of these, I know, I'll read it to you. Being a Christian is believing. Number one, God judges our lives with reward or punishment. Stop. Did you know that the majority of humanity believes in an afterlife judgment? Afterlife judgment is not a uniquely Christian thing. The Egyptians believed in afterlife judgment. The ancient Romans, the ancient Greeks, the Ottomans, Muslims, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists, Daoists. Virtually all of humanity believes in an afterlife judgment. The only people who don't believe in an afterlife judgment are atheists because they don't believe in an afterlife. So they're actually the odd man out. The majority of humanity for the majority of human history has all believed there is an afterlife judgment. What do we debate about? All we're really debating is what the terms of the judgment are. If you were to talk to a Hindu who believes in reincarnation, guess what? If you believe in karma, that your life determines your next life, that's a judgment. You know what's weird about Hinduism? Hinduism doesn't believe in a sovereign God who judges, but their system requires judgment for karma to work. Isn't that weird? That's like saying that judgment happens, but there's no judge. Buddhism is based on Hinduism. Islam believes in an afterlife judgment. Judaism believes in an afterlife judgment. Native American and African spiritualism believes in an afterlife judgment. So it's not uncommon for us to start where Paul starts. There is an afterlife judgment. Well, I don't agree with you. Well, I mean, okay, the rest of the world does. That's why I started here. Notice we don't have, I don't have to start. Nate, you're such a bad sinner. Let's talk about that. No, there's going to be an afterlife judgment. Well, how do you know that? Because for the majority of human history, the majority of humans have believed that. And here, we'll say, well, then just everybody leaves. Yeah, but you know, Claudia, what's really weird? Why is that? Why is it that almost all humans for almost all of human history have believed that there's an afterlife judgment? You ever stop to think about how unlikely that is? Why do almost all of the world's religions believe in an afterlife judgment? Can you explain that, Mr. Atheist? Because that's not proper for evolution. That doesn't help us to survive. Why is it that almost all the world's religions believe in an afterlife judgment? I submit to you, it's because, and the way C.S. Lewis said it, and I'm going to butcher this quote, so those who are Lewis fans, just a little grace here. What C.S. Lewis said, as I paraphrase, if I find in my heart a longing for something outside of this life, then I must acknowledge maybe I was made for more than this life. Let's give or take what Lewis said. So I start you here, there's going to be an afterlife judgment, and the majority of the world agrees with us, where we will either be given reward or punishment. Egyptian, Greek, Roman, everybody agrees with that statement. The only thing we're going to debate about is the terms by which the judgment happens. So then we go to the second statement you see here. The death and resurrection of Jesus proves he is God. Notice when Paul preached in the Areopagus, he didn't start with sin, he didn't start with salvation, he didn't start with covenant, he started with the factual, historical event of the resurrection. Jesus rose, and that proves he is God. If you don't know how to historically defend the resurrection, tell me on your Kinect card. I wrote a book about it, I'll get you one. It's very simple. Jesus is the only person from all of human history whose resurrection is recorded in history. Period! Buddha did not resurrect, the Hindu god did not resurrect, Muhammad did not resurrect, Abraham did not resurrect. Jesus stands in a category all to himself. He is the only person on which a major world religion is based, who's proven to be historical and whose resurrection is recorded in history. So if we're going with which is more plausible, Jesus is God or Jesus isn't, I submit to you that the resurrection as fact is more plausible than not. And then number three, because of the first two statements, because God judges our lives with a reward or punishment, and because the death and resurrection of Jesus proves he is God, number three, Jesus rescues all those who acknowledge and trust in him. Now, my wife and I worked really hard on all the words on the back of this card to keep extracting and taking away churchy language. So somebody's probably, one of my old school saints, right, you're sitting here looking and going, pastor, there's nothing on this card about faith and repentance. It is, but I didn't use the words faith and repentance because they sound super churchy. So to acknowledge Jesus is God is to put your faith and trust in him. That's faith and repentance. Acknowledging he's God, changing my mind about who Jesus is. If I don't believe Jesus is God, and then I change my mind to believe that Jesus is God, can we agree I changed my mind? That means I repented. That means I both changed my mind and placed my faith in Jesus. So then there's the paragraph underneath. Those who acknowledge Jesus is God and put their trust in him are immediately rescued from eternal punishment and are rewarded in this life and the next. Here's your close. For every person who places their faith in the resurrected Jesus is not only freed from eternal punishment, but you are blessed and rewarded immediately by the infilling of the Holy Spirit, and you are rewarded in heaven or in the next life when God creates the new heaven and the new earth. This is what makes the Christian gospel message unique. You have two choices. Since all of humanity virtually agrees there is an afterlife judgment, do you want to be judged on your life, or would you like to be judged by God's righteousness? Because that's what the gospel message is. Jesus died and he transmits his righteousness onto my unrighteousness. So when God judges me, Jesus steps up and says, Dad, he's with me, he's good. I never went to the club, but I always saw the people at the little rope that opens up and you get into the private VIP section. I always thought that was really cool. Again, geek, right? Chess team, not football team, right? I just explained the whole gospel to you and I never used the word sin. I never used the word sinner. I never used the word saint. I didn't even have to use the word repent. I didn't use the word righteousness. You think you can do that? Does that make it easier to tell somebody, why do I believe in Jesus? Because I believe there's going to be an afterlife judgment and I believe Jesus' resurrection proves he's God. So he said, if I put my faith in him, I'm freed from punishment and I'm rewarded. That is basically my summation of Paul's whole sermon here, but specifically 31. For he has said a day when he will judge the world with justice by the man he has appointed. He has given proof of this to everyone by raising him from the dead. Paul pins the entire hope of the Christian church not on the Bible, but on the resurrection. When I was talking with this young man over and over and over, he kept questioning the text of the Bible. And I said, you don't have to believe everything the Bible says, the way someone has preached it to you, to be a Christian. Within Christian theology, there's tons of debates. We debate the right interpretation of the first six days of Genesis. We debate the right interpretation of Revelation. We debate the right purpose of a book. Like there's plenty of debate to be had. All of that debate happens after you make it through the velvet robe and you're inside the club. And now, whoo, don't knock that over. And now we all talk about everything else and we debate it. Almost broke my wife's iPad. I'd have been in trouble. Here's why I think this is important. If you can explain to someone, God judges our life, Jesus' resurrection proves he's God, Jesus says you can be freed from that judgment now before you ever get there. You can explain the gospel. So here's what I want you to do. I want everybody to take their card and put it in your pocket or purse. And I want you to give this to someone when you have the opportunity to explain it. Now what's going to happen? At the very bottom of the card, it says rescue is waiting. Are you ready? And then it has the church logo and then it has a page on the church website. It says catalyst302.com slash rescue. Miss Donna and I built this page on Thursday this past week. On that page are three things. There's a small video from me basically explaining this in two minutes or less. You can watch that video a couple times if you need to practice. How can I explain the gospel in two minutes? You know the reason I wanted to do that? I wanted to give you a tool that you can explain the gospel that number one, doesn't require any theology and number two, that you can do in an elevator. I don't believe there's a theology exam at the entrance to heaven. I just think we need to tell people to put their faith in Jesus and then we learn the rest along the way. Let's get them into the boat. I'm not a fisherman, but I'm pretty sure you don't take the fish boat out there and they go, hey lucky fish, come jump in my boat. I just don't think that's how that works. I think you clean the fish after you catch them. So let's deploy the gospel. So on that page you find a video from me showing you how you can explain the gospel. If you give someone this card and they go back and look at it, the video is going to sit there 24 hours a day, seven days a week. It's going to be there. And then underneath the video there's two buttons. They can click a button that says, I want to be a Christian today. A little form will open up, ask them for their name, for their phone number. That form immediately gets emailed to both Donna and I and somebody from the church can call them within moments of them making a decision 24 hours a day. Or maybe they go to that page and they're not ready yet. They're like the young man that I just had dinner with. There's another button that says, I have questions. Either way, the entire church stands behind you every time you use one of these. So I'm not sending you out alone. I'm not sending you out to do this by yourself. Miss Donna and I and the church stand as a group behind you and you're the one standing here, listen, my church has already got this for you. Take this card. I just, this is how simple believing in Jesus is. The rest of it we'll worry about. Theology we'll worry about. Understanding the Bible we'll worry about it. Let's get them into heaven first. And then we'll start teaching them what it means to live for Jesus. Does that make sense? Alright, so everybody take one of these with you. Now, let's bring it in for a close. So hopefully you received one of our handouts from our usher. Those of you who know what to do, pull out your cell phones. If you are new to Catalyst, this is your first morning. You should, in fact, can you hand me that bulletin right there? I totally forgot to grab one. I'm going to steal this real quick. On the way in, hopefully one of our ushers handed you one of our Sunday morning bulletins. If you're new and this is your first time, I want you to pull out your cell phone and I want you to scan this little code right here that's on the very front of your phone. That will pull up our digital connect card. I'm going to ask every single person to fill out a connect card for two reasons. Number one, it's how we take attendance. I want to know that you were here today. But number two, it's how you're going to respond. And there's one thing that's new on the connect card. So don't be so fast that you miss it. If you scroll down to the bottom of the digital connect card, you're going to see I've formed a rescue team. If you would like to be a part of the church, that responds when these cards get filled out, that calls new believers and prays with them, that helps give people their first Bible, that helps them first time pray, that helps babies learn how to walk. If you have a passion for that, I want you on my team. If you have questions about those things that I just mentioned, how do I pray for the first time? How do I get started reading my Bible? How do I get involved in the community of the church? I want you to let me know that. But this is not something I'm going to do alone. This is something we're going to do as a church. Now, if you did not bring a cell phone, there are paper connect cards in all of the chair backs in front of you. You can just fill them out, and you can write the words rescue team on that paper card. When we take the cards in, we'll make sure you get added. If you're joining us online, you can see there at the bottom of your screen, it says connect with us today at catalyst302.com. I'm going to ask you that you go to that page and that you add that to the chat. I want at least seven people to join my rescue team. What's going to happen when you do that? In a couple of weeks, I don't know if it's on the front or not, but I know we scheduled it. In a couple of weeks, I'm going to do a Saturday morning training class on how to do this, on how to be a rescue team. We're not just going to review again how to share the gospel and do some role playing. We're also going to do a Saturday morning training class on how to be a rescue team. We're not just going to review again how to share the gospel and do some role playing. We're also going to review what do I do next? What if I give somebody this card and oh my God, they say yes right away? What do I do? I'm going to give you a game plan. I'm going to give you a game plan that we're all going to do together. So you're not alone. You're not out there by yourself. You've got me and the rest of the church and the deacons and the elders. We're all standing behind you. But Jen, you might be at the salon when the conversation comes up. I need you trained enough to know how to do it. You know what I'm saying? Kim, you might be delivering a cake when the conversation comes up. I need you to know how to do it in the field and then know that the rest of us are here at the back office. So I need at least seven people to sign up on their Connect card today and join the rescue team. Help me build this mechanism because I believe our culture needs to hear the gospel.