Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Mike. Thank you so much for being a part of our service, whether you are here in our sanctuary in Wilmington or you are part of our online campus. Thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family and from me to you, happy new year. Welcome to a brand new week, a brand new year, a brand new month. I am super excited for all that is in store for Catalyst this year. I've been looking and working and the staff has been working hard at getting ready for things for you this year. This morning we are going to do a stand-alone sermon. It's my privilege to be the primary teacher and typically I like to teach in series so we can spend time digging deep in one area and then move and spend time digging deep in another area. But I didn't want to miss the opportunity to talk about opportunity on the first Sunday of the year. It's usually right around this time that everybody starts talking about New Year's resolutions or considering doing new things in their life. And so this morning's message is entitled Reset How to Revitalize Your Faith for a New Year. There are plenty of examples in scripture of where God's people strayed from the path and then they returned to the path and then they lost it again and they came back. And I thought before we move into deeper teaching, before we move into series, let's just start the year off with something super practical. No matter where you are in your faith, no matter if you are on the highest high or on the lowest low, there is always an opportunity to reevaluate, to reassess, and to revitalize where you are. And so that's what I want to talk to you about this morning. Now if you brought your Bibles with you, whether they're physical or digital, turn or tap with me to the book of Second Chronicles. Second Chronicles, we're going to be in chapter 34. We're going to use a couple different parts of Second Chronicles 34, only because the story is really long and I didn't think you wanted me to read all of it. So we're going to do 34 verses 1 through 8, then look at verse 14, and then 21 to 28. Second Chronicles is an interesting book. So those of you who are Bible students, you will know that Second Chronicles tells the same stories as First and Second Kings. And you may be wondering, why is that? Why did God choose to tell the same thing twice? Well I'm here to tell you that it's actually not the first time he made that choice. And there's a reason why we want to understand the difference. So let's go over our big Bible story and I'll show you how this works. So in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. On to the earth, he made a garden at a place called Eden. And in it, he placed two human beings, Adam and Eve. Sin enters the equation, the first family is pushed out of the garden and they have their first two children, Cain and Abel. One brother kills the other and along comes the third son named Seth. Really good job. Then we fast forward to Genesis chapter 9. Sin has run rampant in the world. God regrets that he made humanity. He chooses to send a flood in order to purge the world of sinfulness and there is one righteous man left on the earth. He reaches out to this righteous man, he gives him instructions to build the ark and that man, his wife, his sons, and their wives all board the ark. That man's name is Noah. Noah is then on the ark. It rains for 40 days, 40 nights. Water covers the surface of the earth for a little over a year and then when the water subsides, they begin to restart humanity. That gets you to Genesis 11, table of nations, tells you how, where all the people groups came from. And then in Genesis 12, God chooses a very special man living in Ur of the Chaldeans of Mesopotamia and he says, listen, you're going to be my people. I'm going to be your God. I'm going to bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you. I've chosen this land that I'm going to give it to you as a forever inheritance for the nation that will come from you. And then God changes that man's name from Abram to Abraham. And that's why we call that the Abrahamic covenant. Then God repeats the same covenant promise. God your God, peep my peep, land your land. He repeats it to Abraham. That's the new international bill abbreviation right there. You're right. God my God, peep my peep, land your land. He repeats that to Abram's second born son, who is the second covenant inheritor, Abraham's son, Isaac. God repeats the covenant again. God your God, peep my peep, land your land, to Isaac's second born son, who becomes the third covenant inheritor and his name is Jacob. And then Jacob has 12 sons and that gets us to the back half of the book of Genesis, where the the older 11 sell their younger brother into slavery. He goes into Egypt for about 13 years. He rises through the ranks as God puts him in the right place and he ultimately becomes second in charge of the entire nation and he saves his entire family from a famine. And that young man's name is Joseph. And that was just the book of Genesis. Then the children of Israel move into the land of Goshen in Egypt. Pharaoh puts them in a special land all by themselves because Egyptians thought that sheep herders were very gross and nasty and so they didn't want to round all the good people. So they put them in their own land. But in doing so, they created like an Egyptian incubator and God's people were allowed to be blessed and they grew until the Egyptians grew jealous of God's people. They enslaved them and finally in their enslavement they cry out for a deliverer. And God sends them a young man who was born in Egypt, trained in the palace, but learned ministry on the pastors of Midian as a shepherd. He gets sent back and the deliverer who ultimately delivers the 10 plagues of Egypt and walks them across the Red Sea, his name is Moses. Moses leads the children of Israel out of Egypt and into the wilderness at the foot of Mount Sinai where they receive the law from God and they're supposed to be his people in his land living his way. But they have a disobedience problem and even while Moses is at the top of the mountain they are worshipping foreign gods at the foot. And so God says, fine Jim we're gonna have to put you and your entire generation in timeout. So you guys are gonna have to wander for 40 years in the wilderness till that generation dies off and then God raises up the next leader of his people. Someone who is, Moses's right hand, who sat outside the tent of meeting while God met with Moses. And because Moses has a disobedience issue during the wilderness wandering period, Moses is not allowed into the land and so Moses is replaced by a young man named Joshua. Joshua then leads God's people into the land of Canaan. They're supposed to move out the previous inheritors but they don't. They end up mixing with them. Now we get to the judges period where everyone does what is right in their own eyes. Everyone decides for themselves what's godly and what's not godly and they continue not to listen to God. And so finally they fully reject God's authority over them by asking for a human king. And the first human king of the united monarchy of Israel is Saul followed by David followed by Solomon. And then after Solomon what happens to God's people? Civil war. If you're a juda catalyst I apologize. Apparently I have made up my own sign language. This means civil war in the biblical sense not the marvel sense. So civil war happens and God's kingdom fractures into two halves. The northern kingdom of Israel has how many tribes? Ten. And the southern kingdom of juda has how many tribes? Right. And then they live as two separate kingdoms for the whole middle of the old testament. And they still have an obedience problem. And finally God says listen you guys are not living according to my covenant. I told you if you're going to live in this land you're going to live my way. You've decided not to live my way so you're going to have to be put in time out from this land. And he uses an external pagan nation who has risen to power and they come in and conquer the northern kingdom of Israel. That pagan nation is Assyria. Then while they are in Assyria captivity the southern kingdom of juda continues to live ungodly and then godly and then ungodly and then godly. And it is because of the godly kings of juda that juda's destruction is delayed. That's where we are in the big bible story today. So we got all the way from the beginning to where we are. We are going to read the story of a man named Josiah. He is a king of the southern kingdom of juda. Because of how we're going to read this we will see why god delayed turning juda over. And I also need to finish one thing. Assyria is ultimately judged by god for conquering his people and Assyria falls to what external power? Babylon. Our story takes place during the fall, during the season where the fall happens from Assyria into Babylon. So for those of you who like your history here's a couple things to add to your notes. Israel falls to the nation of Assyria in 722 BC. Josiah becomes king of juda in 640 BC. That is roughly 82 years later. To put it in perspective for you. Josiah became king 82 years after Israel fell is the same distance as us this morning from 1943. So just so you have an idea. There are some of you in this room who remember 1943. There are some of us in this room who do not. Right? I want you to think about those of, it doesn't really matter what side of the coin you're on. Those of you who are not alive in 1943, you heard about events that happened. Those of you who were alive, you remember events that happened. That's where we are in the big bible story. Josiah becomes king in 640 BC. In 633 which is only seven years after he becomes king. The last great king of the Assyrian empire Asher Banapal. I'm sure that's rolling right off the tongue. Somebody wants to name their baby that, right? Assyrian king Asher Banapal dies in 633 BC and the Assyrian empire doesn't have a strong leader after that. It's just a series of kind of weak vassal type leaders. And so in 626 BC which is now four, four seven, there we go. Big math. Seven years after Asher Banapal dies, Babylon decides we don't want to be a part of Assyria anymore. And Babylon actually rebels. They're a rebellious kind of secede from the union sort of thing. Right? So 626 Nabopalazar is another one of those amazing baby names, right? And if you want to have a baby, Nabopalazar. You probably know his son better, Nebuchadnezzar. Nabopalazar becomes the first king of the Babylonian empire when he rejects Assyrian authority and says, no, we are going to be our own kingdom. Well, this is what happens. Nabopalazar rejects Assyria. Egypt is also a vassal kingdom of the Assyrian empire. And Egypt goes, ooh, this is my chance to look good for daddy. And so Egypt sends an army to Assyria to help them defeat this upstart, you know, rebellious Babylon. All of that is taking place during Josiah's reign. So even though his story is short, it takes place at a time of major upheaval and conflict in the Bible story. And I wanted you to understand all of that so you could better see. So if we follow it through, 626 Nabopalazar becomes king of Babylon. He rejects. 609 BC, Josiah actually dies at the battle of Megiddo under Pharaoh Necho II of Egypt. Because again, Egypt was coming up to help Assyria. Egypt actually steps on Judah, defeats them. And for a couple of years, Judah is owned by Egypt. And then in 605 BC, Babylon destroys the joint alliance of Assyria and Egypt together. And that's why Babylon gets Judah. Because Babylon defeats Egypt and Egypt already owned Judah. Is everybody making sense? I know it's just a lot of like math and history. But if you understand the political upheaval that is taking place, that is the backstory for what we're going to read. So now let's jump into 2 Chronicles chapter 34. Again, I'm going to read verses 1 through 8. Then I'm going to read verse 14. And then I'm going to read 21 to 28. You are free to read all the sections in the middle. I just pulled out a couple of sections that aren't really super detailed in the story. They're just extra interactions because they're not super probative to where we're going this morning. 2 Chronicles 34, starting in verse 1. Josiah was eight years old when he became king. And he reigned in Jerusalem for 31 years. He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord and followed the ways of his father David, not turning aside to the right or to the left. In the eighth year of his reign, while he was still young, he began to seek the God of his father David. In the 12th year, he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem of high places, ashore poles and idols. Under his direction, the altars of the balls were torn down. He cut to pieces the incense altars that were above them and smashed the ashore poles and the idols. These he broke to pieces and scattered them over the graves of those who sacrificed to them. He burned the bones of the priest on their altars and so he purged Judah and Jerusalem. In the towns of Manasseh, Ephraim, Simeon, as far as Naphtali and the ruins around them, he tore down the altars and the ashore poles. He crushed the idols to powder and cut to pieces all the incense altars throughout Israel. Then he went back to Jerusalem. In the 18th year of Josiah's reign, to purify the land and the temple, he sent Shefan son of Azila and Maseiah, the ruler of the city with Joah and his son Jehoaz, the recorder, to repair the temple of the Lord, his God. Now jump down with me. So there's a conversation that happens about the money and how it's going to be distributed. Then we get to verse 14. While they were bringing out the money that had been taken into the temple, Hilke, the priest, found the book of the law of the Lord that had been given through Moses. Now we're going to jump down to 21. They find the book of the law. They bring it to the king. The king asks for someone to help interpret it for him. 21. Go inquire of the Lord for me, the remnant in Israel and Judah, about what is written in this book that has been found. Great is the Lord's anger that is poured out on us because of those who have gone before us have not kept the word of the Lord. They have not acted in accordance with all that is written in the book. So then he sends his people out. Here is now verse 22. Hilke and those the king had sent with him went to speak to the prophet Huldah, who was the wife of Shalom, the son of Tokhath. All these names are amazing. I can't tell if I'm reading the Bible or a Star Wars story. The son of Hashrah, the keeper of the wardrobe, she lived in Jerusalem in the new quarter. She said to them, this is what the Lord, the God of Israel says, tell the man who sent you to me. This is what the Lord says. I am going to bring disaster on this place and its people and all the curses written in the book that has been read in the presence of the king of Judah, because they have forsaken me and have burned incense to other gods and aroused my anger by all their hands have made. My anger will be poured out on this place and will not be quenched. Tell the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of the Lord. This is what the Lord, God of Israel concerning the words you heard, because your heart was responsive and you humbled yourself before God when you heard what he spoke against this place and its people and because you humbled yourself before me and tore your robes and wept in my presence. I have heard you, declares the Lord. Now I will gather you to your ancestors to your ancestors and you will be buried in peace. Your eyes will not see all the disaster I am going to bring on this place and on those who live here. So they took her answer back to the king. So let's rewind back to the beginning of this. Verse one, Josiah was eight years old when he became king. He reigned in Jerusalem 31 years. This is giving you the basic introduction to Josiah as a character. He becomes king at age eight. His father dies and guess what? Upgrade. He is now king. The first thing I want you to understand about your new year is opportunity does not come with an age restriction. I don't care if you were there for 1943 or you didn't even know there was a 1943. Opportunity does not come with an age restriction. As we all face the beginning of this new year, no matter where you are in your walk, no matter how old you are, no matter if you are married or not married, if you are in school or out of school, if you are retired or still working, you have the opportunity to revitalize your faith. Now verse two, he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord and followed the ways of his father David. First off, he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. Whenever we ask if something is right or wrong, right? Is something right? Is something wrong? Is something good? Is something bad? We are making a moral distinction. We are not asking is the light on or is the light off. We're asking something more nuanced. Is this morally good? Is it morally bad? In order to make a moral distinction, you must have a moral standard, right? If I wanted to know the width of this amazing pulpit that Mr. Phil re-did for us, I can measure it, right? I basically have two choices. I can measure it with a tape measure and measure it in inches or I could go find something that measures in centimeters like a meter stick. I went to say yardstick and then realized yardsticks don't measure in centimeters and had to think on the fly. See, it's a new year. You got to have opportunity. I could measure in inches and I could measure in centimeters. Here's what's interesting. Does the pulpit change? But would the measurements in inches and centimeters be different? Yes. Why? Because the standards are different. The pulpit is the same, but depending on which standard you use to measure it, you're going to define it one way or the other. The same is true when you make moral distinctions. You have to decide what decides right and wrong. In Josiah's case, he tells us exactly. He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, unlike the judges period where everyone did what was right in their own eyes. I would argue today we live a lot like the judges period. Many people in the West, whether it's here in America or in Western Europe, they try to decide for themselves what is right and what is wrong. The problem is, is then you've got 50 million different measuring sticks, right? Aaron's got a measuring stick and Rod's got a measuring stick and Sam's got a measuring stick and Jesse measures however Megan tells him to. And so everybody measures differently. But is there really more than one way to decide what is right and what is wrong? I submit to you the answer is no, there's not. There is one right way to measure morality. And in the Christian worldview, that is the character of God and the word that emanates from him. So Josiah chose to do what was right in the eyes of the Lord. Josiah chose God's design over his own desires. I also love that it says he followed the ways of his father David. Obviously David isn't his actual biological father. In Hebrew, that word father means male ancestor. Why are we referring to David as his father? Because Josiah is choosing to live faithfully in the same way that his ancestor David did. But then he also says he did not turn from the right or to the left. The image, the imagery here is that following God is a straight path. A lot of times we like to define holiness or godliness as good versus bad, left versus right. You know, sin versus righteousness. The reality is righteousness is a thin line with a whole lot of distractions on the left and the right. You can go bad this way and you can go bad this way. You can go bad into legalism and think that you're in charge of your own righteousness and you can go bad in liberalism and think that you're just so holy that sin doesn't matter. So, there is this idea where we have to be clear and straight and follow the same path. There's more than one way to stray from godliness. Then in the eighth year of his reign, so those who are super good at math, he becomes king at age eight. Something occurs now in the eighth year of his reign. How old is Josiah? That's right. This is going to become important, so keep your math. He's now 16 years old. While he was still young, yes, I would say 16 is still young, he began to seek the god of his father David. Then in the 12th year, so now how old is he? Is that a question or we're sure? Right? So, if in the eighth year he was 16 plus four, he's now 20 years old. Here's what I want you to see and I probably would have missed it if I didn't go back and read it a second time. He begins to seek god at 16, but he doesn't act on it until 20. There's a gap. There's a gap in the story that takes place a sentence, a gap between the seeking and the sanctifying. Josiah began to seek god and then there was a time where that seeking was starting to take root. There's a time where that seeking was starting to purify him internally before it came out through his actions externally. And in that gap, what happened? I would submit to you, it's in the gap between seeking and sanctifying that faith grows in boldness. Right? It's one thing to know god doesn't want me to do that thing. It's another thing to not do it, but it's a whole other thing to not let the rest of the kingdom do it because that's Josiah's job. As the king, he is to lead god's people in following god's commands. So, Josiah first has to learn what to do and what not to do. He's got to seek god and get it internally. Then he's got to discipline himself. His knowledge has to overtake his volitional will, his choice to obey. How many of you ever been in the situation where you know what's right but just can't seem to make yourself do it? Like I absolutely think vanilla ice cream should be classified as a vegetable. I would have no problems getting my daily servings of vegetables if we could just classify vanilla ice cream as a vegetable. And it's funny when I say it to you that way, but it's not funny when I say that my pet's sin should just be classified as righteousness so I don't have to not take it. Right? There's a gap between learning what god wants me to do and disciplining myself to do it. And that's what happened in that four-year gap. But then Josiah takes it another step further and now that he's age 20, he begins to purge Judah and Jerusalem of high places, of Asherah poles and idols. So let me read verse four and then I'm going to make my next point here. So Josiah grows in his boldness of faith. He grows in his ability to discipline himself, to obey the word of god. And then four, under his direction, the altars of the bales were torn down. He cut to pieces the incense altars that were above them, smashed the Asherah poles into idols. So let's talk about what this really means. Number one, under his direction means now he has moved from something internal to Josiah to something external of his administration. He is now leading the people in becoming righteous once again. But I want to cue in on why. Because I think a lot of times when we read the Old Testament and we read about Baal and we read about Asherah, we don't understand why they are so detestable to God. So let's go back to Abraham. When God made the covenant with Abraham, he was pretty clear. I will be your God and you will be my people. You are to be set apart for me. And what's that word that means set apart? Holy. That's what holy means, to be set apart. And then God makes a covenant with Abraham that is handed down to Isaac, handed down to Jacob, and ultimately handed down to the entire nation. The nation of Israel is in covenant relationship with God. So how do I relate this to our life today? Well, there are many of us in this room who are in covenant relationship with someone else in this room. In our society today, we call it marriage. In fact, when I do premarital counseling with couples, I often have to start by asking them, do you view marriage as a covenant or as a contract? See, a contract comes with terms. I get this and you get that. If you do this, I do that. But see, contracts can be renegotiated. Contracts can be gotten out of. Contracts can be canceled. Covenants are forever promises. Covenants are one and done. Like if you're tired of me, take a nap because we're stuck. That's the covenant view of marriage. If you got a problem, build some lumber, build a bridge. We can figure it out. But there's no way out. That's a covenant relationship. And in covenant relationship, you belong to me and only me and I belong to you and only you. So husbands, let me just ask you the simple question. How happy would your wives be if you flirted with other women in front of them? Wives, how happy would your husbands be if you flirt? This is not the point to elbow your neighbor. Okay? Everybody just stay right here locked in with me for a minute. Husbands, how would you feel if you heard your wife that, you know, that laugh that she has, that sound where you know she's totally pleased with who she's talking to? How would you feel if it was another man that made her feel that way? That's covenant relationship. And that's how God feels every time Israel worships other gods. They are literally cheating on him. They are violating their covenant promise to live only for him by flirting with and ultimately worship is sleeping with these other people. Men, if your wives told you she loved you but actively regularly slept with her boyfriends, multiple, do you feel that she loves you? Or do you feel that she's just staying with you for, I don't know, money, house, cars, school payments, whatever it is, you would feel used. This is how God feels. This is why. And how do I know this? Well, let's just take a look. For instance, they mentioned two gods here. They mentioned Baal and they mentioned Asherah. So let me give you a brief synopsis on who these guys are. So Baal is the chief Canaanite god of their pantheon. So they have different gods. Different gods are over different things. Just think Percy Jackson, right? There's a god of thunder and there's a god of the oceans and the god of this. Baal is specifically the god of the storm or god of rain. And when you live in an agrarian culture and you eat from the things that you grow from the ground, rain is vitally important. This is why Baal had the position he had in the Canaanite pantheon. Because if there is no rain, there are no crops, right? So Baal is the god of the storm, the god of the rain. And because rain brings crops, he is also the god of prosperity. Asherah is the goddess of fertility. Fertility and also prosperity. Because if you have children, then you have more people to work your land. You have more children to help watch your sheep. And together, Baal and Asherah are like a demigod couple. And it was believed that the rain that came down from the heavens is literally... Let's see. Uh-huh. That's where we're going. I just want to make sure I'm looking for the youngest person in the room. So the rain that falls from the clouds is the seeds from Baal that make the crops grow, okay? I'm just going to leave that one there. And so, you know, I got to tell you the truth and I got to also realize where we're in church, can't be that truthful. So, it can't be that explicit. I can be truthful but not explicit. In order to worship Baal, they would not only burn incense, but Baal's worship involved a sex cult. They would go to his temple and there would be temple prostitutes, both male and female, both adult and children. And they would put on these mass orgies in order to arouse Baal so that seed would rain down and their crops would grow. Now, Asherah is a large part of this. Asherah is the female side of fertility and prosperity. And in order to worship, you would take your child, your actual child, usually in baby to no more than toddler form, and you would burn it alive on an altar. So when we talk about why God was so detestable against the Canaanite practices of worship, let's be super honest. We would be detestable against them too. Anybody who would take a perfectly formed baby and put it on an altar and stoke the fire until the baby was burned alive and died just so that you could have more prosperity in your life. That's what was going on at this time. No wonder God's like, not only are you cheating on me, you're cheating on me with them of all of the gods. You're going to pick them? Like, come on, man. God is thoroughly upset. Also keep in mind all the way back in Deuteronomy, he said that blessing is muted through obedience. Obey me and all of this will be yours. Disobey me and I will have to correct you because a loving parent corrects his children. So Baal is the god of the rain. Asherah, she's the mother earth or mother goddess kind of figure. Both gods were associated with sex worship and both gods were associated with child sacrifice. And this is what they did on the regular in order for their crops to grow and for them to have children. So when we see him cutting down the altars and we see him smashing things, look at the end of verse four. These he broke to pieces and scattered them over the graves of those who sacrificed. And then verse five, my personal favorite, he burned the bones of the priests on their altars and so he purged Judah and Jerusalem. If I didn't tell you how disgusting their worship practices were, you might look at Josiah and be like, man, that was kind of extreme. Why couldn't you just like take their tax exemption away? Because I don't think you can root out extreme idolatry with surface level attraction. When you're that deeply rooted in that level of adulterous idolatry, it's got to be cut off at the root. And the way he did that was he literally burned the bones of the priests on their altars. And in doing this, he purges Judah, his entire country, and Jerusalem, his capital city. But then verse six, look at this, it extends out in the towns of Manasseh, Ephraim, Simeon, Naphtali, the ruins all around them. He tore down the altars and the Asherah poles. He crushed the idols to powder. He cut to pieces all the incense throughout Israel. And then he went home. He didn't just stop at purifying his little city and let all of the country folk have their way. No, because what he did is he realized that God was clear that his entire nation should obey. God wanted all of his people to be only his. It's not enough to give part of us to God and keep part of us away. That's like a spouse saying, well, I'm with you while I'm with you, I love you. But when I'm at work, I flirt with her. Is that really love at that point? Is that really dedication at that point? No. So, Josiah understood in order to fully love and serve God, there had to be a full commitment. We got to clear it out from top to bottom. But then he still, after he was done with all the adulterous activities, now we skip to verse 8. Now he does a different step. Verse 8. In the 18th year, how old is he? 18 plus 8. There we go. In the 26th year of his age or 18th year of his reign, to purify the land and the temple. I just got to stop. Why does Josiah have to purify the land? Because the land is part of what was given to God's people as the forever inheritance. In fact, God said in Deuteronomy that if you don't live properly, the land itself will spit you out. The land was expected to live in a godly fashion. So, in order to purify the land and the temple, he sent Shafan son of Azila and Masasala, the ruler to the city, son of Joaz, the recorder to repair the temple, the Lord of the Lord, his God. What activities happen at the temple? Sacrifices, worship. God's presence is supposed to be in the temple with his people. So, Josiah really does two things here. The first is he gets rid of the adulterous activities. The second is he prioritizes God's place in the kingdom by restoring the temple. So, this is an active step of reprioritization. Before it was it was Asher, it was Baal. It was all these things. You know, yeah, we have a temple and that's where our covenant is but this is where our money comes from. That's where our covenant is but this is where my kids come from. That's where our covenant is but this is where I live. And he said, no, first we're going to get rid of all that idolatry, that adultery that you're doing, and next we're going to reprioritize God and we're going to place him in the center. And I would say that avoiding sin is not the same as prioritizing God in your life. Atheists can avoid committing adultery. That doesn't make them godly husbands, right? You cannot define your godliness by what you do not If that were the case, then you could just go into a medically induced coma and be a holy person. That's not how that works. Yes, part of godliness is avoiding evil but the other part of godliness is pursuing what is righteous, pursuing what is right. And so, that's what he does here by making now the temple the focus. We get to verse 14. So, he sends the money while they're bringing the money out that had been taken to the temple. Hillkeye, the priest, found the book of the law from the Lord that had been given through Moses. My best guess, they found Deuteronomy. Why? Because if you go back to Deuteronomy, they were told to keep a copy of it in the temple. Also, what is the book of Deuteronomy? Deuteronomy literally means second law. So, if you read it, like I told you, God has repeated himself more than once. He gave the law in Leviticus through Moses. Then when they disobeyed and they had to wander for 40 years, the book of Deuteronomy is the repeat of the law for the upcoming from the Joshua generation. Moses and his generation got Leviticus. Joshua and his generation got Deuteronomy. The same is true. First and second Kings is told in the time and first and second Chronicles is told after the exile as they're coming home and re-establishing their identity. That's why they tell the same stories. So, they refind the book of the law, most likely Deuteronomy. And now Josiah's got to figure out what does this mean. So, then we get, so he prioritizes God and now we get down to 21. He's ultimately going to submit to God's word. Look at this. Go inquire of the Lord for me for the remnant in Israel and Judah about what is written in the book that has been found. I love the fact that the king didn't just decide he was allowed to decide what it meant. Like he's the king. He's in charge. He's the top dog. But he realizes that even in his position of power, he does not decide what God's word says. He himself must also submit to it. So then great is the Lord's anger that is poured out on us because those who have gone before us have not kept the word of the Lord. That's why I think it was Deuteronomy because Deuteronomy repeats the covenant promises, blessings and curses. They have not acted in accordance with the covenant promises, blessings and curses. They have not acted in accordance with with all that is written in the book of this law. God can love you and hate what you do at the same time. Now we talk a lot about the fact that God is love and yes he is love. He is the the quintessential definition of love. He's also the quintessential definition of good and goodness and right and righteousness and just and justice and mercy. He can't have one part of God's character and forget the rest of it. God can love you as his person and hate the things you do. Any of you who are parents may have felt that way about your children. You can be free to elbow them if they're next to you. Just because God loves his people does not mean he approves of what they do. Then we get to 22 and here I think is the probably the the big surprise from studying this this week. Hylkiah and those the king had sent with him went to speak to the prophet Huldah who was the wife of Shalom son of Talchath the son of Hazra keeper of the wardrobe. Stop. Just this is hilarious. Watch this. Let me take out all the Star Wars level names and just watch what happens. Hylkiah went to speak to the prophet Huldah who was the keeper of the wardrobe. Right? If you take out all the names all the extra definitions what is Huldah's day job? She keeps clothes. She's the person who keeps the wardrobe for the royal court. She's basically the laundry maid and this is who the king inquires of to learn the word of God. The entire king of Judah who's the guy who's been leading this revival who's been crashing down altars and killing prophets and murdering and and burning them on their own altars. He gets all of that done and then says what are you going to do with all of that? He's going to kill them and murdering and and burning them on their own altars. He gets all of that done and then says wait a minute. We need to talk to the laundry maid before we go any further. I find that amazingly interesting that in the middle of this huge revival where God is purifying the heart of his people he goes to a woman. Don't miss that. She's a woman. This is a female prophet in the Old Testament who's like the laundry lady and she is the person giving advice to the king for how to teach the people to obey God. Women don't ever think for one second that the Bible is anti-woman. There are fantastic women's stories buried. Sometimes you miss it because it's the wife of this guy and the son of this and the son of this. That's all just to give you lineage. Don't miss the fact that Huldah is the prophet in Jerusalem. Now why is she the prophet? I don't know. God gave her the gift. The Bible just tells you who she is. It doesn't say how she became the prophet. It doesn't say did she go to a school for prophets? How did she learn how to use her gift? I can't tell you any of that. All I can tell you is by the time the king needed a prophet the laundry lady was the gal. Go get her. I also love that until verse 22 what was Huldah doing? Her day job. She was just doing the laundry. She was just doing her own thing. Being obedient. Being a husband. I mean being a wife. She's being a daughter-in-law. You know you can see her lineage here. She's just going to work doing her own thing but clearly God had been working in her and through her because she was known to be a prophet. You should never miss the fact that your day job might just be your ministry setting because until the moment that King Josiah came about she's just doing her thing. She's doing her laundry. Keeping the wardrobe. Your day job does not determine your influence for the kingdom of God. A lot of people like to think because as I'm a pastor I must be influential in the kingdom. I would submit to you it's actually the opposite. I struggle struggle to make a difference in anybody who's a pre-christian. Pre-christian is my personal term for anybody who doesn't believe in Jesus. I don't like the term non-believer because it sounds like we're us and they're outside of us. I don't like the term lost because they're right here. I can find them. They're not lost. I like the term pre-christian because every single person has the potential to become a Christ follower. Do you know how many pre-christian conversations I get to have on a weekly basis? Maybe one or two and that's if my wife lets me talk to the checkout person when we go to a store. Sometimes she's like, Bill I don't have time. We have to get home. We gotta make dinner. The kids need brownies. They got theater practice at 6 30. Just don't. Let's go. Yes ma'am. Got it. How many pre-christians do you get to see on a daily basis when you go to work or when you go to school? You have so many more opportunities to do gospel centric eternity changing ministry than I do. I'm just the guy that has to be up here every single week to try to help teach you, to try to help train you, to try to help prepare you so that you can go do your job. Because somewhere, some day while you're out there just doing your job, just doing the laundry or balancing the books or teaching in a school or fixing trucks or doing whatever it is that you do, God's going to send somebody to you with a question and you're going to be there to make that difference. That's hold up. She's just doing her day job until it was time for that one moment for that influence. And then it's hold up who's and I like in 23 she says she said to them, King Josiah sent a team of people. Guys, we got this book. This is the word of God. I'm not sure how to do this but I know we need to go find the prophet. I think she's at the laundry station. That had to sound weird. It is okay. It is okay to laugh at the humanity that's in the Bible. These are real human people. They put their pants on one leg at a time. They went pee. They went poop. Like they're real humans. Sometimes we read the Bible and we sanctify them to the point that we like, you know, we never think that Jesus farted. Doesn't make sense to me. You're telling, just to be honest, you're telling me that Jesus and his 12 disciples who a third of which are more were fishermen who live on a high protein, high grain diet and they're all walking around for three years and they're not having a fart competition. I just don't see it. I don't see Peter just crop dusting Jesus one day. Be like, ha ha. Why? Because they're human beings. They're people. Don't miss the humanity in scripture or you will set a standard that you will never reach. When we see that they're real people and Huldah is just doing her job folding laundry and keeping the wardrobe for when the important people need to wear their clothes. But she's the one in this moment, the dress keeper so to speak. And she's the one that says, this is what the Lord says. Not the king. Not his advisors. Not anybody in a position of authority. Why? Because in this moment the Lord gave Huldah the authority to speak what she needed to speak. And it was her voice that the king needed to hear. Not his advisors. Not his wife. Not his kids. He needed the voice of the Lord and Huldah was in the right place at the right time to say exactly this. I am going to bring disaster on this place. Like I'm sure the king is like looking for good news, right? The king is looking for God we repent. We do. And so God says, listen I am going to bring disaster on this place and its people. All the curses written in the book that has been read. Is there a second laundry keeper? Can we get a second opinion here? Is there another prophet somewhere? Like this could not have been good news to hear. Why? Because God's people deserve discipline. And for him to constantly stay, I mean anybody who's ever been a parent, you can't stave off discipline forever or you'll have rowdy kids, right? Eventually when you say that this is the way it's going to be and your kid decides to press their luck, you're going to have to say, okay there's the line. You crossed it. Here's the consequences. In this moment this is God the father speaking to his entire nation who is supposed to live for him. Be like you guys crossed the line time and time and time and time and time. Don't excuse my patience for my lack of justice. Now it's time. However, I'm sorry the bad news is still here in 25. Because they have forsaken me, you guys slept with other gods, you burned incense to other gods, you aroused my anger by all that their hands have made. My anger will be poured out on this place will not be quenched. Just think about it this way. Like when he talks about the anger all your hands have made. If you came home and you found your spouse painting a picture of their boyfriend or girlfriend to hang in your bedroom, that's what they're doing. They're crafting foreign idols. That is not a home improvement project for anybody, just so we're clear. They're crafting images of foreign idols and keeping them in the land that God gave for them. That's like painting a portrait of your girlfriend and keeping it in the bedroom where you sleep with your wife or boyfriend with husband if you want to switch the genders. God is done. I'm done. I'm going to bring it. But tell the king of Judah, this is 26, tell the king of Judah who sent you to inquire. This is what the Lord God of Israel says concerning the words you have heard. And here's the soft. 27. Because your heart was responsive, because you humbled yourself before God when you heard what he spoke against this place and its people, and because you humbled yourself before me and tore your robes and wept in my presence, I have heard you. Generations and generations of adultery, generations and generations of cheating and detestable practices, and I am ready to bring the hammer. But one voice of humility, one voice of genuine repentance, and God hears through the noise of years of adultery. And he says, but I have heard you. And here's mercy in the midst of judgment. Watch this. 28. Now, meaning in response to your humility and repentance, now I will gather you to your ancestors and you will be buried in peace. Your eyes will not see the disaster that I am going to bring on this place and on those who live here. So they took her answer back to the king. 29. Because of Josiah's reformation in his heart that then became the restoration of the nation, because of his humility, because of his genuine broken heart, he could harden this before God. God did not stop judging his people. He delayed the consequence because of Josiah's righteousness, because of Josiah's humility, because of Josiah's repentance. Everyone else who lived while Josiah was king did not have to experience the judgment of God. Now, let me rewind and remind you of the world events that were happening and let me show it to you. In 640 BC, Josiah becomes king. Seven years later, the Assyrian king Ashurbanipal dies. Seven years after that, Nabopalazar becomes the first king of Babylon by rejecting Assyrian authority. Egypt marches up to help Assyria. And while Egypt is marching through Judah, Josiah gets a burr under his saddle that he needs to stand up to Egypt. Egypt was not coming for Judah. They were just passing by. And if you read the entire story of Josiah, Josiah decides to go to battle against Egypt even after God told him not to. And it's in that battle in 609 BC that Josiah is killed. Less than four years later, Babylon crushes Judah. During his lifetime, Josiah's faith bought reprieve for the nation of Judah. But judgment was always coming because they had already committed the sins. They had already cheated and slept around on God and he had to bring judgment. But in the midst of ready to bring judgment, the faith of one man staved off that judgment. And then God uses all of these external powers and the Syria Egypt alliance and going up against Babylon and then Babylon becomes strong. And in 605 BC, Babylon defeats the Egypt Assyria alliance at the battle of Carchemesh and Judah falls to Babylon. And that is when Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego or Hananiah, Azariah and Meshael if you want their Hebrew names are carried off to Babylon. Daniel was able to be born in Judah, not Babylon because of Josiah's faith. That's the connection because Daniel was still a young man when he was carried off. So timeline wise, Daniel and Hananiah, Azariah, Meshael all of them born while Josiah was king during the tail end of Josiah's kingship. They were able to be born in their homeland because God staved off destruction because of Josiah's faith. Now all of that is a fantastic history lesson, Pastor Bill. What does that mean? How does that help you revitalize your faith this year? So here's what I want you to do. We're going to use Josiah's actions in this story as a pattern or as a mold. So here it is four simple steps. Number one, the first thing you have to do is grow in your boldness in your faith. Remember there's a gap. There's a gap between the seeking and the sanctifying. If you're in that gap right now, that's where you're at in your faith. You know that God's word is true but you struggle to obey it. Then that's your first step. You must grow in boldness in order to obey God. And my question to you would be if that's where you're at you need to grow in boldness. My question is, is your faith the primary influence of your decisions and your actions? Is your faith the primary influence in your decisions and your actions or is it something else? Is it how much money am I going to make? Is it will this get me the better job? What is the single primary? Is it what makes my wife happy? Is it what makes my husband happy? Is it what makes my children happy? What is the primary influence in your actions and decisions? If you're already growing in your boldness of faith, then we can move on to Josiah's step two. You need to remove adulterous activities from your life. Make no mistake, if you're a Christian, then you are supposed to be in covenant relationship with Jesus. He's the king. That means you are no longer the king of your life. That means you do not get to decide what is right and wrong for your life. The king does. That means you do not get to decide what you should do. The king does. That means you don't get to decide what your calling is. The king does. So if you need to remove adulterous activities from your life, then bro you need to get it. Stop playing around with it. Stop trying to find a way to make it okay. As much as I would like this to be true, vanilla ice cream is never going to be a vegetable. Your sin is never going to be righteous. And I don't care how good you feel about it. And I don't care how much you like it. And I don't care how much you think it might be good for you in the long run. It's not. Get rid of the adulterous activities. If you don't struggle with adulterous activities, then let's look at Josiah's third step. Prioritizing God as the center point of your life. Are you actively putting God first in your lifestyle? That's your day-to-day activities. The way the youth pastor said it when I was growing up, if your life was a silent movie, would it still be a Christian film? Can someone tell by your actions that you belong to the kingdom of Christ? Or do you just look like another American going to work and driving a car? Is there enough actions of your life to denote a Christian lifestyle? Or do you just think like a Christian but live like an American? If you are not struggling to grow in boldness, you're not struggling with adulterous activities, you are not struggling to prioritize God, then there's only one step left. Submit to the word of God. And here's where I got to make the point. Submitting to the word of God comes with the responsibility to learn it correctly. Just like Josiah did. He went and sought Huldah in order for him to know it right so he could obey it better. If you say you submit to the word of God but you don't read it, you're a hypocrite. If you say you submit to the word of God but you don't study it, then you're at best a weak Christian or at worst still a hypocrite. If we are not learning, then you are not growing. That's just, I mean obviously as a teacher that plays well for my style of growth. When I want to learn, I read a book. I learn something new, helps me grow. That's, that's, I've learned how to motivate myself to growth. I grow through learning. I have a good friend, his name's Dave. He never watches my sermon so I can pick on him while I want. David is more of, so I'm what they would call an intellectual Christian. I learn and that changes me. Dave is like a social Christian. He loves his small group, he loves his Bible study, he loves his accountability group. He changes by ironing and ironing, iron sharpened Zion with other men. Put him in a social situation and man his faith gets turned up. There are other people who their faith gets activated when they're worshiping or when they're praying, when their emotions touch their faith, man that fire just lights up. I can't tell you which one of those you are. I can tell you after 20 years of ministry, I don't think there's a fourth category. Everyone that I have met in my 20 years of ministry falls into one of those three categories. Their faith is either ignited through learning, their faith is either ignited through feeling, or their faith is either ignited through relationships. Just throwing it out there. But if you're not learning and submitting to the word of God regularly, you're still not engaging your faith in daily life. That's how we can use Josiah's reforms to make a better year. Because the simple fact is, and I told you I was going to ask you this last year, are you any stronger of a Christian than you were a year ago? And obviously everybody wants to say, of course I am pastor, that's why I'm in church. Okay, enumerate for me. List. Spell it out specifically. How have you grown in the last year? What new things have you learned? What new activities did you stop doing? What new activities did you start doing? I don't just want your lip service, I don't just want your words. The apologist in me says show me the evidence. Show me the evidence in an enumerated list that you are a stronger, more mature Christian than you were last year. And if you can't make a list that gets above three, then maybe we should have a better year this year than last year. Right? I realize this message ends a little heavier than it started. That's why I had to make the Jesus fart a joke in the middle of it. All right. So let me give you your takeaway as we roll this one in for a landing. I apologize that I went long, but I wanted to make sure you saw the whole thing. So here it is. Sincerely of faith is visible in the actions of life. Like Josiah, we must boldly destroy sinfulness and prioritize godliness if we want to experience revival.