Series Outline
Wednesday, September 20, 2023 4:17 PM
Outline of the book:
Ch1 -Introduction
Ch2,3 -NT Churches
Ch4,5 -Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 -The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 -Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 -Eternal Kingdom
7 Weeks to teach
1: Introduction (Rev 1:1-3)
2:
Revelation Page 1

Introduction to Revelation
Monday, September 25, 2023 9:35 AM
Key Questions:
Who wrote the Revelation?
A man named John (Rev 1:4)
While it has been challenged over the years, all of the
first century witnesses of the text affirm the Apostle
John is the author.
When was Revelation written?
Early Date: AD 64-65 - Nero's persecution
Nero preferred execution (Peter & Paul)
Late Date: AD 95-96 - Domitian's persecution
Domitian preferred exile (John)
The Emperors:
Nero was emperor during the early date
Nero killed Peter & Paul
Domitian was emperor during the late date
Domitian preferred to exile
The Earthquake
Laodicea experienced a devastating earthquake in
AD 60. Nero offered tax relief to help them rebuild,
the citizens turned them down. The reconstruction
wasn't finished until AD 87-90.
They Laodiceans are "rich, wealthy, and need of
nothing" in 3:17. Which is more likely, they are
Revelation Page 2

nothing" in 3:17. Which is more likely, they are
"rich" 5 years into their 25 year rebuilding project or
after it is completed?
Who is Revelation talking about?
Supersessionism: The Church has replaced national
Israel
Dispensationalism: The Church is grafted into national
Israel
When is Revelation talking about?
Preterist: First Century
Historicist: Christian Church history
Futurist: In the future from our perspective
What is Revelation talking about?
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's
outstanding promises.
The 4 Promises:
The Eden Promise
Genesis 3:15
15 And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and
between your offspring and hers; he will crush your head,
Revelation Page 3

between your offspring and hers; he will crush your head,
and you will strike his heel.”
Called the Proto-Evangelum
The first mention of Jesus and salvation in the Bible
Eve's offspring is JESUS
Satan "strikes" Jesus
Jesus "crushes" Satan
The Abrahamic Covenant
Genesis 12:1–3
1 The LORD had said to Abram, “Go from your country, your
people and your father’s household to the land I will show
you.
2 “I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you; I
will make your name great, and you will be a blessing.
3 I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you I
will curse; and all peoples on earth will be blessed through
you.”
Genesis 13:14–17
14 The LORD said to Abram after Lot had parted from him,
“Look around from where you are, to the north and south,
to the east and west.
North, South, East, West - a physical land, not
allegorical
15 All the land that you see I will give to you and your
offspring forever.
Revelation Page 4

offspring forever.
And your offspring forever - the inheritance is ongoing
16 I will make your offspring like the dust of the earth, so
that if anyone could count the dust, then your offspring
could be counted.
17 Go, walk through the length and breadth of the land, for
I am giving it to you.”
Land… giving to you - the land is an everlasting
inheritance for Israel
The Davidic Promise
2 Samuel 7:4–16
4 But that night the word of the LORD came to Nathan,
saying:
5 “Go and tell my servant David, ‘This is what the LORD
says: Are you the one to build me a house to dwell in?
LORD - the covenant name for God
Build me a house - a permanent home for God among
His people
6 I have not dwelt in a house from the day I brought the
Israelites up out of Egypt to this day. I have been moving
from place to place with a tent as my dwelling.
Dwelling - the tabernacle was God "dwelling" with His
Revelation Page 5

Dwelling - the tabernacle was God "dwelling" with His
people
7 Wherever I have moved with all the Israelites, did I ever
say to any of their rulers whom I commanded to shepherd
my people Israel, “Why have you not built me a house of
cedar?” ’
Built me a house - the Temple was a permanent
"dwelling place" for God among His people
8 “Now then, tell my servant David, ‘This is what the LORD
Almighty says: I took you from the pasture, from tending the
flock, and appointed you ruler over my people Israel.
I took you/appointed you - God called and elevated
David throughout his life. David was faithful, God was
the cause.
9 I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have
cut off all your enemies from before you. Now I will make
your name great, like the names of the greatest men on
earth.
10 And I will provide a place for my people Israel and will
plant them so that they can have a home of their own and
no longer be disturbed. Wicked people will not oppress them
anymore, as they did at the beginning
I will provide a place - God gave the land as part of His
promise
11 and have done ever since the time I appointed leaders
Revelation Page 6

11 and have done ever since the time I appointed leaders
over my people Israel. I will also give you rest from all your
enemies. “ ‘The LORD declares to you that the LORD himself
will establish a house for you:
12 When your days are over and you rest with your
ancestors, I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, your
own flesh and blood, and I will establish his kingdom.
Offspring/flesh and blood - the promised ruler must be
in the line of David
13 He is the one who will build a house for my Name, and I
will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
Throne of his kingdom forever - the promise is for a
"forever king"; a ruler who will reign "forever" in David's
line
14 I will be his father, and he will be my son. When he does
wrong, I will punish him with a rod wielded by men, with
floggings inflicted by human hands.
15 But my love will never be taken away from him, as I took
it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you.
16 Your house and your kingdom will endure forever before
me; your throne will be established forever.’ ”
Endure forever - the "forever king" will rule in God's
sight eternally. This cannot be solely human king
Revelation Page 7

The New Covenant
Ezekiel 36:26–28
26 I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you; I
will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a
heart of flesh.
The new heart will be one of life, not cold rigidity
27 And I will put my Spirit in you and move you to follow my
decrees and be careful to keep my laws.
The Spirit will be "inside" the people of God, producing
obedience
28 Then you will live in the land I gave your ancestors; you
will be my people, and I will be your God.
In the land - the New Covenant involves the land
Be my people - the New Covenant is a community
Be your God - the New Covenant is allegiant to God
alone
Luke 22:20
20 In the same way, after the supper he took the cup,
saying, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is
poured out for you.
John 3:16–18
Revelation Page 8

16 For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only
Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have
eternal life.
Believes in him - the New Covenant is one of faith in
Christ
Eternal life - the New Covenant offers eternal life by
faith
17 For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn
the world, but to save the world through him.
Save the world - the New Covenant is about salvation
18 Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever
does not believe stands condemned already because they
have not believed in the name of God’s one and only Son.
Believes - the New Covenant is based on faith, not merit
or ancestry
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises. Creation will be free from the presence of, effects
of, and desire to sin forever.
Revelation Page 9

Chapter One
Monday, October 2, 2023 1:22 PM
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises. Creation will be free from the presence of, effects of,
and desire to sin forever.
The Frame:
Four outstanding promises set our expectations for what to
look for in the book of Revelation. They are: (1) a son of Eve will
defeat sin forever, (2) the descendants of Abraham will receive
the promised land inheritance (3) a descendant of David will
rule as a "forever king", (4) Jesus will accomplish these in His
kingdom built on faith in Him.
Review:
John the apostle wrote Revelation in AD 95-96 after being
exiled to Patmos by Emperor Domitian. We will be reading
Revelation from the futurist perspective in which chapters 4-22
describe events which haven't happened yet.
Key Verse for interpretation:
1:19 Write, therefore, what you have seen, what is now and
what will take place later.
Three different times:
have seen (past) - chapter 1
is now (present) - chapters 2,3
will take place (future) chapters 4-22
Revelation Page 10

Outline of Revelation:
Ch1 - Introduction
Ch2,3 - New Testament Churches
Ch4,5 - Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 - The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 - Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 - Eternal Kingdom
Chapter One:
Ch1 Outline:
1:1-3 - Divine Author Greeting
1:4-8 - Human Author Greeting
1:9-20 - John's vision from Patmos
Revelation 1:1–20
[Divine Author Greeting]
1 The revelation from Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show
his servants what must soon take place. He made it known by
sending his angel to his servant John,
From Jesus Christ - this info comes from Jesus Himself
His servants - Jesus's servants are the intended recipients
To show/take place - the purpose is to reveal future events
Angel to… John - Jesus sent the info via angel to John
2 who testifies to everything he saw—that is, the word of God
and the testimony of Jesus Christ.
Testifies - John is the witness of the things he saw
Revelation Page 11

Testifies - John is the witness of the things he saw
3 Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this
prophecy, and blessed are those who hear it and take to heart
what is written in it, because the time is near.
Blessed - lit. being favored by God's divine grace
same as Jesus used in the sermon on the mount
[Human Author Greeting]
4 John, To the seven churches in the province of Asia: Grace and
peace to you from him who is, and who was, and who is to
come, and from the seven spirits before his throne,
John, - typical NT letter, the writer identifies himself first
To the seven churches - NT letter, the writer identifies his
audience
Seven spirits - could be a way of referring to the Holy Spirit
The number 7 appears 54 times in Revelation and
usually refers to that which is flawless or complete
5 and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, the firstborn
from the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To him
who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood,
And Jesus Christ - taken together: The Father, Spirit, and
Son
Firstborn from the dead - the first to receive glorified new
life
Rules of kings - Jesus is the ruler of all human authority
Freed from sin - John clearly understands salvation in Christ
Revelation Page 12

Freed from sin - John clearly understands salvation in Christ
By his blood - John understands Jesus blood bought
salvation
6 and has made us to be a kingdom and priests to serve his God
and Father—to him be glory and power for ever and ever!
Amen.
Made us to be - the work of Jesus accomplishes both
Kingdom and priests - the New Covenant in Christ's blood
creates a kingdom of priests
7 “Look, he is coming with the clouds,” and “every eye will see
him, even those who pierced him”; and all peoples on earth
“will mourn because of him.” So shall it be! Amen.
Coming with the clouds - imagery from Daniel 7:13-14 of
the Son of Man coming to God the Father, receiving all
authority, and establishing an everlasting kingdom
See him/pierced him/will mourn - imagery from Zechariah
12:10 in which God pours out a "spirit of grace" and the
people mourn over their treatment of Him
8 “I am the Alpha and the Omega,” says the Lord God, “who is,
and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty.”
Alpha and Omega - the first and last letters of the Greek
alphabet; a phrase that speaks to the sovereignty of God
9 I, John, your brother and companion in the suffering and
kingdom and patient endurance that are ours in Jesus, was on
the island of Patmos because of the word of God and the
Revelation Page 13

the island of Patmos because of the word of God and the
testimony of Jesus.
I, John - the author identifies himself again
Companion in suffering - believers were persecuted for
Christ
Island of Patmos - John refers to his exile
10 On the Lord’s Day I was in the Spirit, and I heard behind me a
loud voice like a trumpet,
The Lord's Day - either Sunday, or the Day of the Lord
In the Spirit - the vision came to John via the Holy Spirit
11 which said: “Write on a scroll what you see and send it to the
seven churches: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira,
Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea.”
A scroll - the message was to go to all of the churches
12 I turned around to see the voice that was speaking to me.
And when I turned I saw seven golden lampstands,
Turned to see - the images John shares are prophetic
visions
Seven - repeated 54 times in the book; flawless or complete
Lampstands - that which stands to give light to their
surrounding
13 and among the lampstands was someone like a son of man,
dressed in a robe reaching down to his feet and with a golden
sash around his chest.
Revelation Page 14

Son of man - a reference from Daniel 7:13, a messianic
reference
Robe / Sash - imagery of a royalty and priestly attire
14 The hair on his head was white like wool, as white as snow,
and his eyes were like blazing fire.
White hair / blazing eyes - another reference to Daniel 7:9
15 His feet were like bronze glowing in a furnace, and his voice
was like the sound of rushing waters.
Bronze feet - the bronze altar was the place of judgment
Rushing waters - Ezekiel 43:2
16 In his right hand he held seven stars, and coming out of his
mouth was a sharp, double-edged sword. His face was like the
sun shining in all its brilliance.
Right hand - the place of authority
Seven stars - the angels of the seven churches being
addressed
Double-edged sword - this is a weapon of war, stabbing to
death
17 When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. Then he
placed his right hand on me and said: “Do not be afraid. I am
the First and the Last.
When I saw him - again a reference to "sight" as in a vision
Fell at his feet - the only proper response to divine
glory/authority
Revelation Page 15

glory/authority
Right hand on me - the authority of God, comforting His
servant
18 I am the Living One; I was dead, and now look, I am alive for
ever and ever! And I hold the keys of death and Hades.
Living One/dead/alive - Jesus confirms His death,
resurrection, and authority as the true King of Kings
19 “Write, therefore, what you have seen, what is now and
what will take place later.
Write - this is a command from Jesus to John
What you have seen - the past
What is now - the present
What will take place later - the future
20 The mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand
and of the seven golden lampstands is this: The seven stars are
the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are
the seven churches.
The mystery of - Jesus explains that which John doesn't
understand
Seven - again a number of fullness, completion, etc.
Angels - better translation "messengers" or the leaders of
the churches in those areas.
History Note:
During the imperial worship of the Roman emperor
Domitian, he had coins minted with an image of his son
surrounded by seven stars! John ends this first chapter
Revelation Page 16

surrounded by seven stars! John ends this first chapter
show Jesus as the true King and Emperor of all creation.
The Takeaway:
Revelation chapter one shows King Jesus fully complete and
without a flaw, speaking to and through His messenger, John.
He stands not as the baby from Bethlehem, but as the
sovereign Ruler of all who stands ready to judge and defeat sin.
Revelation Page 17

Chapters 2,3
Tuesday, October 10, 2023 9:57 AM
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises. Creation will be free from the presence of, effects of,
and desire to sin forever.
The Frame:
Four outstanding promises set our expectations for what to
look for in the book of Revelation. They are: (1) a son of Eve will
defeat sin forever, (2) the descendants of Abraham will receive
the promised land inheritance (3) a descendant of David will
rule as a "forever king", (4) Jesus will accomplish these in His
kingdom built on faith in Him.
Review:
John the apostle wrote Revelation in AD 95-96 after being
exiled to Patmos by Emperor Domitian. We will be reading
Revelation from the futurist perspective in which chapters 4-22
describe events which haven't happened yet.
Key Verse for interpretation:
1:19 Write, therefore, what you have seen, what is now and
what will take place later.
Three different times:
have seen (past) - chapter 1
is now (present) - chapters 2,3
will take place (future) chapters 4-22
Revelation Page 18

Outline of Revelation:
Ch1 - Introduction
Ch2,3 - New Testament Churches
Ch4,5 - Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 - The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 - Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 - Eternal Kingdom
Chapters 2&3 Outline:
2:1-7 - Letter to Ephesus
2:8-11 - Letter to Smyrna
2:12-17 - Letter to Pergamum
2:18-29 - Letter to Thyatira
3:1-6 - Letter to Sardis
3:7-13 - Letter to Philadelphia
3:14-22 - Letter to Laodicea
Letter to Ephesus
Revelation 2:1–7
1 “To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: These are the
words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand and
walks among the seven golden lampstands.
Him who holds the seven stars - Jesus, the one with all
authority
Right hand - the place of authority
2 I know your deeds, your hard work and your perseverance. I
know that you cannot tolerate wicked people, that you have
Revelation Page 19

know that you cannot tolerate wicked people, that you have
tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and have
found them false.
I know you - the Shepherd knows the sheep
Cannot tolerate wicked people - they didn't allow evil in
their church
Tested those who claim - they tested false teachers
3 You have persevered and have endured hardships for my
name, and have not grown weary.
Persevered / not weary - their faith had endurance in
difficulty
4 Yet I hold this against you: You have forsaken the love you had
at first.
Hold this against you - despite their strengths, they had lost
love
The love you had at first - they were known for their love of
people
Eph. 1:15-16
For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the
Lord Jesus and your love for all God’s people
5 Consider how far you have fallen! Repent and do the things
you did at first. If you do not repent, I will come to you and
remove your lampstand from its place.
Revelation Page 20

Repent and do - Jesus called them to "go back" to loving
people
6 But you have this in your favor: You hate the practices of the
Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
Practices of the Nicolaitans - likely including pagan sexual
immorality
7 Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the
churches. To the one who is victorious, I will give the right to eat
from the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.
Lesson 1: Passion for right teaching should not erode love for
people.
Letter to Smyrna
Revelation 2:8–11
8 “To the angel of the church in Smyrna write: These are the
words of him who is the First and the Last, who died and came
to life again.
Died… life again - Jesus, the one who has overcome death
9 I know your afflictions and your poverty—yet you are rich! I
know about the slander of those who say they are Jews and are
not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
Synagogue of Satan - Jews persecuting the church
Revelation Page 21

Synagogue of Satan - Jews persecuting the church
10 Do not be afraid of what you are about to suffer. I tell you,
the devil will put some of you in prison to test you, and you will
suffer persecution for ten days. Be faithful, even to the point of
death, and I will give you life as your victor’s crown.
Do not be afraid / suffer - severe persecution was coming
Even to the point of death - this is the measure of faith
required
11 Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the
churches. The one who is victorious will not be hurt at all by the
second death.
Second death - this is a reference to hell
One of two churches not be corrected, only encouraged
Lesson 2: Jesus calls all Christians to be faithful regardless of
the circumstances
Letter to Pergamum
Revelation 2:12–17
12 “To the angel of the church in Pergamum write: These are
the words of him who has the sharp, double-edged sword.
Double-edged sword - Jesus stands ready to judge
13 I know where you live—where Satan has his throne. Yet you
remain true to my name. You did not renounce your faith in me,
Revelation Page 22

remain true to my name. You did not renounce your faith in me,
not even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was
put to death in your city—where Satan lives.
Satan has his throne - either emperor or idol worship
Remain true - faith in the face of opposition
14 Nevertheless, I have a few things against you: There are
some among you who hold to the teaching of Balaam, who
taught Balak to entice the Israelites to sin so that they ate food
sacrificed to idols and committed sexual immorality.
Balaam - found in Numbers 22
Entice to sin - this included two things: idols & sexual
immorality
15 Likewise, you also have those who hold to the teaching of
the Nicolaitans.
Likewise… Nicolaitans - this suggest their teaching was
similar
16 Repent therefore! Otherwise, I will soon come to you and will
fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
Repent - Jesus calling His own people to repent
17 Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the
churches. To the one who is victorious, I will give some of the
hidden manna. I will also give that person a white stone with a
new name written on it, known only to the one who receives it.
Lesson 3: Idols and sexual immorality have no place in true
Revelation Page 23

Lesson 3: Idols and sexual immorality have no place in true
Christianity.
Letter to Thyatira
Revelation 2:18–29
18 “To the angel of the church in Thyatira write: These are the
words of the Son of God, whose eyes are like blazing fire and
whose feet are like burnished bronze.
Blazing fire … bronze - references: Dan. 7:13, Ezek. 43:2
19 I know your deeds, your love and faith, your service and
perseverance, and that you are now doing more than you did at
first.
I know your deeds - the shepherd knows His Sheep
Now doing more - their active faith was increasing
20 Nevertheless, I have this against you: You tolerate that
woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophet. By her teaching she
misleads my servants into sexual immorality and the eating of
food sacrificed to idols.
Tolerate Jezebel - a female "prophet" who lead the church
into idolatry and sexual immorality (1 Kings 16:30-33)
21 I have given her time to repent of her immorality, but she is
unwilling.
Given her time - Jesus allowed for a time of sin to look for
repentence
Revelation Page 24

repentence
22 So I will cast her on a bed of suffering, and I will make those
who commit adultery with her suffer intensely, unless they
repent of her ways.
Bed of suffering - a judgement for Jezebel for sinful
leadership
23 I will strike her children dead. Then all the churches will know
that I am he who searches hearts and minds, and I will repay
each of you according to your deeds.
Strike her children - followers of Jezebel, not actual kids
24 Now I say to the rest of you in Thyatira, to you who do not
hold to her teaching and have not learned Satan’s so-called
deep secrets, ‘I will not impose any other burden on you,
Her teaching - the rest of the Christians were to hold to
right teaching
25 except to hold on to what you have until I come.’
Hold on - they are told to "hold on" to right teaching in the
face of immorality invading the church
26 To the one who is victorious and does my will to the end, I
will give authority over the nations—
27 that one ‘will rule them with an iron scepter and will dash
them to pieces like pottery’—just as I have received authority
from my Father.
Revelation Page 25

from my Father.
28 I will also give that one the morning star.
29 Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the
churches.
Lesson 4: Even when false teaching and immorality invades the
church, true Christians are to hold to biblical doctrine.
Letter to Sardis
Revelation 3:1–6
1 “To the angel of the church in Sardis write: These are the
words of him who holds the seven spirits of God and the seven
stars. I know your deeds; you have a reputation of being alive,
but you are dead.
Know your deeds - Jesus knows His people
Reputation - these Christians were no longer who they once
were
2 Wake up! Strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I
have found your deeds unfinished in the sight of my God.
Found your deeds - Jesus is the one who will measure our
deeds
In the sight of God - we must prioritize God's view of us
over man's
3 Remember, therefore, what you have received and heard;
hold it fast, and repent. But if you do not wake up, I will come
Revelation Page 26

hold it fast, and repent. But if you do not wake up, I will come
like a thief, and you will not know at what time I will come to
you.
Received and heard - the church was founded on the
gospel
Like a thief - we will not get any advanced notice of Jesus
return
4 Yet you have a few people in Sardis who have not soiled their
clothes. They will walk with me, dressed in white, for they are
worthy.
Few people - there was a "righteous remnant" in the city
5 The one who is victorious will, like them, be dressed in white. I
will never blot out the name of that person from the book of
life, but will acknowledge that name before my Father and his
angels.
Book of life - a way of referring the Lord's record of our life
& faith
6 Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the
churches.
Lesson 5: Until Jesus returns, Christians should value God's
design over their own desires.
Letter to Philadelphia
Revelation 3:7–13
Revelation Page 27

7 “To the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: These are
the words of him who is holy and true, who holds the key of
David. What he opens no one can shut, and what he shuts no
one can open.
Key of David - the Davidic authority as the "forever king"
No one can open - the sovereign authority of Christ
8 I know your deeds. See, I have placed before you an open door
that no one can shut. I know that you have little strength, yet
you have kept my word and have not denied my name.
I know your deeds - Jesus knows the actions of His people
Little strength - Christians remained faithful regardless of
self
9 I will make those who are of the synagogue of Satan, who
claim to be Jews though they are not, but are liars—I will make
them come and fall down at your feet and acknowledge that I
have loved you.
10 Since you have kept my command to endure patiently, I will
also keep you from the hour of trial that is going to come on the
whole world to test the inhabitants of the earth.
Keep you from the hour of trial - a reference to PRE-TRIB
rapture
Whole world - the Great Tribulation is a worldwide focus
11 I am coming soon. Hold on to what you have, so that no one
will take your crown.
Revelation Page 28

12 The one who is victorious I will make a pillar in the temple of
my God. Never again will they leave it. I will write on them the
name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new
Jerusalem, which is coming down out of heaven from my God;
and I will also write on them my new name.
13 Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the
churches.
Lesson 6: Christians should expect a victorious King Jesus to
return with power and rescue His people.
Letter to Laodicea:
Revelation 3:14–22
14 “To the angel of the church in Laodicea write: These are the
words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the ruler of
God’s creation.
15 I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish
you were either one or the other!
I know your deeds - Jesus knows His people
Cold or hot - both of these are GOOD, both are refreshing
Hot Springs
Cold Springs
Laodicea was on a river and water was a part of their
lifestyle
16 So, because you are lukewarm—neither hot nor cold—I am
Revelation Page 29

16 So, because you are lukewarm—neither hot nor cold—I am
about to spit you out of my mouth.
Lukewarm - this is the negative choice compared to hot &
cold
Lukewarm water points to spiritual apathy
17 You say, ‘I am rich; I have acquired wealth and do not need a
thing.’ But you do not realize that you are wretched, pitiful,
poor, blind and naked.
I am rich - their wealth left them blind to their spiritual
condition
18 I counsel you to buy from me gold refined in the fire, so you
can become rich; and white clothes to wear, so you can cover
your shameful nakedness; and salve to put on your eyes, so you
can see.
19 Those whom I love I rebuke and discipline. So be earnest and
repent.
Love & rebuke - this is not the standard idea of comfort
20 Here I am! I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my
voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with that
person, and they with me.
21 To the one who is victorious, I will give the right to sit with
me on my throne, just as I was victorious and sat down with my
Father on his throne.
22 Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the
Revelation Page 30

22 Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the
churches.”
Lesson 7: Christians should not allow wealth or apathy to erode
their passion or faith in Christ.
The Takeaway:
Seven Lessons from Jesus to His Church:
1: Passion for right teaching should never erode love for
people.
2: Faith should never depend on circumstances.
3: Idols and sexual immorality have no place in Christianity.
4: When false teaching and immorality invade the church, true
Christians should hold to biblical teachings.
5: Until Jesus returns, Christians should value God's design over
their own desires.
6: Christians should expect a victorious King Jesus to return
with power and rescue His people.
7: Christians should not allow wealth or apathy to erode their
passion or faith in Christ.
Revelation Page 31

Chapters 4,5,6,7
Tuesday, October 17, 2023 12:56 PM
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding promises.
Creation will be free from the presence of, effects of, and desire to sin
forever.
The Frame:
Four outstanding promises set our expectations for what to look for in
the book of Revelation. They are: (1) a son of Eve will defeat sin forever,
(2) the descendants of Abraham will receive the promised land
inheritance (3) a descendant of David will rule as a "forever king", (4)
Jesus will accomplish these in His kingdom built on faith in Him.
Review:
John the apostle wrote Revelation in AD 95-96 after being exiled to
Patmos by Emperor Domitian. We will be reading Revelation from the
futurist perspective in which chapters 4-22 describe events which haven't
happened yet.
Key Verse for interpretation:
1:19 Write, therefore, what you have seen, what is now and what will
take place later.
Three different times:
have seen (past) - chapter 1
is now (present) - chapters 2,3
will take place (future) chapters 4-22
Outline of Revelation:
Ch1 - Introduction
Revelation Page 32

Ch1 - Introduction
Ch2,3 - New Testament Churches
Ch4,5 - Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 - The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 - Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 - Eternal Kingdom
Outline of Chapters 4 & 5
4:1 - John's next vision
4:2-11 - The Throne Room of God
5:1 - 4 - The Scroll
5:5-8 - The Lamb
5:9-14 - Worship of the Lamb
Revelation 4:1
1 After this I looked, and there before me was a door standing open in
heaven. And the voice I had first heard speaking to me like a trumpet said,
“Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this.”
After this - this begins the "future" part of the futurist perspective
4:2 - Throne in Heaven - this is God Almighty on His throne in Heaven
4:8, 11 - [Angelic Praise] - the praise of the angels remind the reader of
God's eternality and authority
[chapter 5 is a continuation of the heavenly vision, the numerical break is
an interruption and should be ignored]
5:1 - A Scroll - lit. /biblion/ meaning "a document, book or scroll". This is
where we get our English word "BIBLE" from.
5:1 - Both sides - illustrates the amount of information on the scroll
Revelation Page 33

5:1 - Both sides - illustrates the amount of information on the scroll
5:1 - Seven seals - the 7 refers to perfection, the scroll required the
authority of God Himself to open, thus the contents carries the full
weight of heavenly authority
5:6 - Seven horns / eyes - the 7 refers to perfection, horns represent
dominion or authoritative rule, the eyes represent "sight" or
omniscience. Taken together, the Lamb has all knowledge, power, and
authority.
Revelation 5:9
9 And they sang a new song, saying: “You are worthy to take the scroll
and to open its seals, because you were slain, and with your blood you
purchased for God persons from every tribe and language and people and
nation.
Worthy - the Lamb is worthy because of His sacrificial death
Purchased - lit. 'bought, acquired, redeemed"
For God - salvation is not for US, but for our being reunited with God
[The rest of chapter 5 illustrates Jesus is the worthy Lamb who alone has
the authority to break the seals of God's authority and reveal His plans
for the world.]
Outline of Chapters 6,7
6:1-2 - The 1st Seal - The Antichrist (white horse)
6:3-4 - The 2nd Seal - War (red horse)
6:5-6 - The 3rd Seal - Famine & Inflation (black horse)
6:7-8 - The 4th Seal - Death (pale horse)
Revelation Page 34

6:7-8 - The 4th Seal - Death (pale horse)
6:9-11 - The 5th Seal - Martyrs Prayer
6:12-17 - The 6th Seal - Cosmic Catastrophe
[Chapter 7 serves as an interlude of protection in the midst of terrible
judgment.]
7:1-8 - 144,000 Faithful Israelites protected
7:9-18 - Christians worshiping the Lord IN HEAVEN during the tribulation
Revelation 6:1–8:5
1 I watched as the Lamb opened the first of the seven seals. Then I heard
one of the four living creatures say in a voice like thunder, “Come!”
2 I looked, and there before me was a white horse! Its rider held a bow,
and he was given a crown, and he rode out as a conqueror bent on
conquest.
Conquest - This rider is the Antichrist, the false reversal of Jesus's
righteous rule. He will subdue to the world by force under his
authority
3 When the Lamb opened the second seal, I heard the second living
creature say, “Come!”
4 Then another horse came out, a fiery red one. Its rider was given power
to take peace from the earth and to make people kill each other. To him
was given a large sword.
War - this rider will instigate war between nations and people
5 When the Lamb opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature
say, “Come!” I looked, and there before me was a black horse! Its rider
was holding a pair of scales in his hand.
Revelation Page 35

was holding a pair of scales in his hand.
6 Then I heard what sounded like a voice among the four living creatures,
saying, “Two pounds of wheat for a day’s wages, and six pounds of barley
for a day’s wages, and do not damage the oil and the wine!”
Famine - this rider will inflate prices and cause severe famine
Day's wages - the prices in view here are overly high, illustrating
inflation due to scarcity of food
7 When the Lamb opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth
living creature say, “Come!”
8 I looked, and there before me was a pale horse! Its rider was named
Death, and Hades was following close behind him. They were given power
over a fourth of the earth to kill by sword, famine and plague, and by the
wild beasts of the earth.
Pale horse - the horse is the color of decaying flesh
Fourth of the earth - the earth's population is currently over 8 Billion,
this means 2 billion people will die.
This is equal to ALL the people living in:
North, Central, and South America
Europe
Pacific Islands, Australia, & New Zealand
9 When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those
who had been slain because of the word of God and the testimony they
had maintained.
Testimony maintained - these are martyrs who died for the faith
10 They called out in a loud voice, “How long, Sovereign Lord, holy and
true, until you judge the inhabitants of the earth and avenge our blood?”
Revelation Page 36

11 Then each of them was given a white robe, and they were told to wait
a little longer, until the full number of their fellow servants, their brothers
and sisters, were killed just as they had been.
Full number - God knows the number of martyrs still alive
12 I watched as he opened the sixth seal. There was a great earthquake.
The sun turned black like sackcloth made of goat hair, the whole moon
turned blood red,
13 and the stars in the sky fell to earth, as figs drop from a fig tree when
shaken by a strong wind.
14 The heavens receded like a scroll being rolled up, and every mountain
and island was removed from its place.
15 Then the kings of the earth, the princes, the generals, the rich, the
mighty, and everyone else, both slave and free, hid in caves and among
the rocks of the mountains.
Hid in caves - this seal drives fear into all disobedient people as the
wrath of God is visible on a cosmic scale
16 They called to the mountains and the rocks, “Fall on us and hide us
from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the
Lamb!
Wrath of the Lamb - this is an equally biblical view of Jesus
17 For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can withstand it?”
Great day of wrath - the same as the Great Terrible Day of the Lord
Chapter 7 Introduces an interlude of protection for two groups
Revelation Page 37

Chapter 7 Introduces an interlude of protection for two groups
1 After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth,
holding back the four winds of the earth to prevent any wind from
blowing on the land or on the sea or on any tree.
Four winds - these are the winds of wrath, not literal wind
2 Then I saw another angel coming up from the east, having the seal of
the living God. He called out in a loud voice to the four angels who had
been given power to harm the land and the sea:
3 “Do not harm the land or the sea or the trees until we put a seal on the
foreheads of the servants of our God.”
Do not… until - God provides for the protection of Israel
4 Then I heard the number of those who were sealed: 144,000 from all the
tribes of Israel.
144,000 - these are Israelites ALIVE on earth at this time
5 From the tribe of Judah 12,000 were sealed, from the tribe of Reuben
12,000, from the tribe of Gad 12,000,
6 from the tribe of Asher 12,000, from the tribe of Naphtali 12,000, from
the tribe of Manasseh 12,000,
7 from the tribe of Simeon 12,000, from the tribe of Levi 12,000, from the
tribe of Issachar 12,000,
8 from the tribe of Zebulun 12,000, from the tribe of Joseph 12,000, from
the tribe of Benjamin 12,000.
9 After this I looked, and there before me was a great multitude that no
Revelation Page 38

9 After this I looked, and there before me was a great multitude that no
one could count, from every nation, tribe, people and language, standing
before the throne and before the Lamb. They were wearing white robes
and were holding palm branches in their hands.
Nation, tribe, people, etc - this is a portrait of salvation in heaven
10 And they cried out in a loud voice: “Salvation belongs to our God, who
sits on the throne, and to the Lamb.”
11 All the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders
and the four living creatures. They fell down on their faces before the
throne and worshiped God,
12 saying: “Amen! Praise and glory and wisdom and thanks and honor
and power and strength be to our God for ever and ever. Amen!”
13 Then one of the elders asked me, “These in white robes—who are they,
and where did they come from?”
14 I answered, “Sir, you know.” And he said, “These are they who have
come out of the great tribulation; they have washed their robes and made
them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Blood of the lamb - these are martyrs who died during the seal
judgments
15 Therefore, “they are before the throne of God and serve him day and
night in his temple; and he who sits on the throne will shelter them with
his presence.
16 ‘Never again will they hunger; never again will they thirst. The sun will
not beat down on them,’ nor any scorching heat.
17 For the Lamb at the center of the throne will be their shepherd; ‘he will
lead them to springs of living water.’ ‘And God will wipe away every tear
Revelation Page 39

lead them to springs of living water.’ ‘And God will wipe away every tear
from their eyes.’”
Blessed in the Presence - the martyrs are also saved from the
Tribulation, spending the rest of eternity in the presence of the Savior
The Takeaway:
The Lamb who saves is also the Lamb who will mute out wrathful
judgment on the sinful world. Christians should never question that the
loving God can also judge wickedness.
Revelation Page 40

Chapters 8,9
Monday, October 23, 2023 1:56 PM
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises. Creation will be free from the presence of, effects of,
and desire to sin forever.
The Frame:
Four outstanding promises set our expectations for what to
look for in the book of Revelation. They are: (1) a son of Eve will
defeat sin forever, (2) the descendants of Abraham will receive
the promised land inheritance (3) a descendant of David will
rule as a "forever king", (4) Jesus will accomplish these in His
kingdom built on faith in Him.
Review:
John the apostle wrote Revelation in AD 95-96 after being
exiled to Patmos by Emperor Domitian. We will be reading
Revelation from the futurist perspective in which chapters 4-22
describe events which haven't happened yet.
Key Verse for interpretation:
1:19 Write, therefore, what you have seen, what is now and
what will take place later.
Three different times:
have seen (past) - chapter 1
is now (present) - chapters 2,3
will take place (future) chapters 4-22
Revelation Page 41

Outline of Revelation:
Ch1 - Introduction
Ch2,3 - New Testament Churches
Ch4,5 - Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 - The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 - Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 - Eternal Kingdom
Outline of Chapters 8 & 9
8:1-5 - The 7th Seal & The Golden Censer
8:6-7 - The 1st Trumpet (Earthly destruction)
8:8-9 - The 2nd Trumpet (Oceanic destruction)
8:10-11 - The 3rd Trumpet (Fresh water polluted)
8:12-13 - The 4th Trumpet (Celestial destruction)
9:1-12 - The 5th Trumpet (Locusts from the Abyss)
9:13-21 - The 6th Trumpet (200 Million Strong Army)
Revelation 8:1–11:14
1 When he opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven
for about half an hour.
silence - this is odd considering the view of the throne
room in chapters 4 and 5; this likely indicates respect,
submission, or anticipation of what comes next.
2 And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven
trumpets were given to them.
Angels - these are actual angels, heavenly beings
Revelation Page 42

Angels - these are actual angels, heavenly beings
Trumpets - this is the instrument used for announcing
decrees
3 Another angel, who had a golden censer, came and stood at
the altar. He was given much incense to offer, with the prayers
of all God’s people, on the golden altar in front of the throne.
Prayers - this is either the prayers of the martyrs of ch6, or
all Christians who pray
4 The smoke of the incense, together with the prayers of God’s
people, went up before God from the angel’s hand.
5 Then the angel took the censer, filled it with fire from the
altar, and hurled it on the earth; and there came peals of
thunder, rumblings, flashes of lightning and an earthquake.
Hurled it - the angel can only do this is given permission by
God. It is possible the "prayers" are asking for judgement on
the sinful world
6 Then the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared
to sound them.
Seven trumpets - these take place AS the 7th Seal
7 The first angel sounded his trumpet, and there came hail and
fire mixed with blood, and it was hurled down on the earth. A
third of the earth was burned up, a third of the trees were
burned up, and all the green grass was burned up.
Trees / grass - this loss of vegetation intensified the famine
Revelation Page 43

Trees / grass - this loss of vegetation intensified the famine
8 The second angel sounded his trumpet, and something like a
huge mountain, all ablaze, was thrown into the sea. A third of
the sea turned into blood,
Like a huge mountain - a meteor strikes the ocean
Into blood - the death in the ocean taints the remaining
water
9 a third of the living creatures in the sea died, and a third of
the ships were destroyed.
Ships destroyed - any ships in the ocean at the strike are
destroyed; this would have also had significance for John's
readers as Rome was a powerful naval presence on the
waters
10 The third angel sounded his trumpet, and a great star,
blazing like a torch, fell from the sky on a third of the rivers and
on the springs of water—
Fell from the sky - a second meteor or celestial body
11 the name of the star is Wormwood. A third of the waters
turned bitter, and many people died from the waters that had
become bitter.
Wormwood - a bitter desert plant only mentioned here in
the NT. It is mentioned in the OT and is always associated
with sorrow and bitter judgment. This fresh water pollution
will be poisonous to humans bringing a large death toll.
Revelation Page 44

12 The fourth angel sounded his trumpet, and a third of the sun
was struck, a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that
a third of them turned dark. A third of the day was without
light, and also a third of the night.
Sun / Moon - John sees some kind of celestial cataclysm
that damages the normal cycle of light seen on earth. This
would also make temperatures drop inducing extreme cold.
13 As I watched, I heard an eagle that was flying in midair call
out in a loud voice: “Woe! Woe! Woe to the inhabitants of the
earth, because of the trumpet blasts about to be sounded by
the other three angels!”
Woe! - lit. an interjection stating horror and dread
Woe! X3 - the first four trumpets focus on the earth, the
sea, the waters, and the heavens. The latter three will each
be a "woe" or a horror for mankind.
Parallels with the plagues of Egypt:
Hail and Fire
Waters turning to blood
Darkness
Death
[FIRST WOE: Demonic Locusts]
1 The fifth angel sounded his trumpet, and I saw a star that had
fallen from the sky to the earth. The star was given the key to
the shaft of the Abyss.
Revelation Page 45

the shaft of the Abyss.
Fallen star - a fallen angel
Given the key - a fallen angel given authority over God's
confinement of other fallen angels… most likely Satan
himself
2 When he opened the Abyss, smoke rose from it like the smoke
from a gigantic furnace. The sun and sky were darkened by the
smoke from the Abyss.
Abyss - lit. "place with no bottom"
3 And out of the smoke locusts came down on the earth and
were given power like that of scorpions of the earth.
Given power - the demonic locusts were given power, it's
not theirs
4 They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any plant
or tree, but only those people who did not have the seal of God
on their foreheads.
Not to harm grass - another clue they aren't regular locusts
Seal of God - they torment un-saved individuals
5 They were not allowed to kill them but only to torture them
for five months. And the agony they suffered was like that of
the sting of a scorpion when it strikes.
Not allowed - another example of the restraint on their
power
Like that of the sting - describes the effects, not the sting
Revelation Page 46

Like that of the sting - describes the effects, not the sting
itself
6 During those days people will seek death but will not find it;
they will long to die, but death will elude them.
Seek death - the torment from the locusts will make people
want to die, but they will not be able to
7 The locusts looked like horses prepared for battle. On their
heads they wore something like crowns of gold, and their faces
resembled human faces.
Looked like - these are descriptions of John's view of them
8 Their hair was like women’s hair, and their teeth were like
lions’ teeth.
9 They had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the sound
of their wings was like the thundering of many horses and
chariots rushing into battle.
10 They had tails with stingers, like scorpions, and in their tails
they had power to torment people for five months.
Five months - likely the literal amount of time of the
torment
11 They had as king over them the angel of the Abyss, whose
name in Hebrew is Abaddon and in Greek is Apollyon (that is,
Destroyer).
Abaddon/Apollyon - both words mean "Destroyer", likely
Revelation Page 47

Abaddon/Apollyon - both words mean "Destroyer", likely
Satan
12 The first woe is past; two other woes are yet to come.
[SECOND WOE: 200 Million Strong Army]
13 The sixth angel sounded his trumpet, and I heard a voice
coming from the four horns of the golden altar that is before
God.
14 It said to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, “Release the
four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates.”
Four angels - either fallen or faithful angels
15 And the four angels who had been kept ready for this very
hour and day and month and year were released to kill a third
of mankind.
This very hour - these four angels have been waiting for this
moment
Third of mankind - after the previous 25% that is HALF of
humanity!
16 The number of the mounted troops was twice ten thousand
times ten thousand. I heard their number.
2 x 10,000 x 10,000 = 2 Hundred Million
a: human army
b: demonic army
Revelation Page 48

17 The horses and riders I saw in my vision looked like this:
Their breastplates were fiery red, dark blue, and yellow as
sulfur. The heads of the horses resembled the heads of lions,
and out of their mouths came fire, smoke and sulfur.
Saw in my vision - John is seeing a vision via the Spirit
Heads of horses / lions - human army: describing machines
of war; demonic army: describing the shape of the demons
themselves
18 A third of mankind was killed by the three plagues of fire,
smoke and sulfur that came out of their mouths.
Fire, smoke, and sufur - human army: descriptions of
modern weapons; demonic army - description of spiritual
attacks
19 The power of the horses was in their mouths and in their
tails; for their tails were like snakes, having heads with which
they inflict injury.
20 The rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues
still did not repent of the work of their hands; they did not stop
worshiping demons, and idols of gold, silver, bronze, stone and
wood—idols that cannot see or hear or walk.
Rest of mankind - the remaining 50% of the world's
population
Still did not repent - the response is clear, humanity still
worships fallen idols rather than repents.
Revelation Page 49

21 Nor did they repent of their murders, their magic arts, their
sexual immorality or their thefts.
Nor did they repent - the army's slaughter did not bring
repentance; humanity continues to sin
The Takeaway:
God's judgment of sin will be awesome. Chapters 8 and 9
describe the wrath of God being poured out on a sinful
creation. Yet, even within this scene, God protects His people.
His love is as great as His judgment.
Revelation Page 50

Chapters 10-12
Monday, October 23, 2023 1:56 PM
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises. Creation will be free from the presence of, effects of,
and desire to sin forever.
The Frame:
Four outstanding promises set our expectations for what to
look for in the book of Revelation. They are: (1) a son of Eve will
defeat sin forever, (2) the descendants of Abraham will receive
the promised land inheritance (3) a descendant of David will
rule as a "forever king", (4) Jesus will accomplish these in His
kingdom built on faith in Him.
Review:
John the apostle wrote Revelation in AD 95-96 after being
exiled to Patmos by Emperor Domitian. We will be reading
Revelation from the futurist perspective in which chapters 4-22
describe events which haven't happened yet.
Key Verse for interpretation:
1:19 Write, therefore, what you have seen, what is now and
what will take place later.
Three different times:
have seen (past) - chapter 1
is now (present) - chapters 2,3
will take place (future) chapters 4-22
Revelation Page 51

Outline of Revelation:
Ch1 - Introduction
Ch2,3 - New Testament Churches
Ch4,5 - Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 - The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 - Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 - Eternal Kingdom
Outline of Ch10-12
10:1-11 - Interlude: The Angel & The Little Scroll
10:1-4 - John is given secret revelation from God
10:5-7 - Angelic announcement about God fulfilling prophecy
10:8-11 - John eats the bittersweet scroll
11:1-14 - Interlude: The Two Witnesses
11:1-2 - John measures the Temple
11:3-6 - The arrival of the Two Witnesses
11:7-10 - The death of the Two Witnesses
11:11-13 - The Resurrection of the Two Witnesses
11:14 - the ending of the Second Woe
11:15-19 - The Seventh Trumpet
12:1-17 - The Woman, The Child, & The Dragon
12:1-2 - The Sign of the Woman
12:3-4 - The Sign of the Dragon
12:5-6 - The Protection of the Woman & The Child
12:7-9 - Satan's Assault on Heaven
12:10-12 - Praise for the Victory of the Lamb
12:13-17 - The Dragon's Pursuit of the Woman
Interpretive Keys for Chapter 12:
The Woman is Israel
Revelation Page 52

The Woman is Israel
The Child is Jesus
The Dragon is Satan
Other Options for "The Woman"
The Church: The Church did not give birth to Jesus.
Mary, the mother of Jesus: Mary was never exalted or viewed
in worshipful terms in the earliest years of the faith. She was a
poor young girl who God used to bless the world. She is NOT
"the woman" character portrayed here. She was never
"hidden" in the desert or chased by a torrential river.
Chapter TEN
Revelation 10:1-11
1 Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven.
He was robed in a cloud, with a rainbow above his head; his
face was like the sun, and his legs were like fiery pillars.
Another angel - more likely an angel rather than Christ
Himself
2 He was holding a little scroll, which lay open in his hand. He
planted his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land,
Little scroll - the one scroll of Ch6, a smaller one
Left / right foot - symbolizes the authority given this angel
3 and he gave a loud shout like the roar of a lion. When he
shouted, the voices of the seven thunders spoke.
Revelation Page 53

shouted, the voices of the seven thunders spoke.
Seven thunders - seven could be symbolic; voices from
heaven
4 And when the seven thunders spoke, I was about to write; but
I heard a voice from heaven say, “Seal up what the seven
thunders have said and do not write it down.”
Do not write it down - whatever John heard is to be kept
secret
5 Then the angel I had seen standing on the sea and on the land
raised his right hand to heaven.
6 And he swore by him who lives for ever and ever, who created
the heavens and all that is in them, the earth and all that is in it,
and the sea and all that is in it, and said, “There will be no more
delay!
No more delay - the time for the Kingdom of Christ is near
7 But in the days when the seventh angel is about to sound his
trumpet, the mystery of God will be accomplished, just as he
announced to his servants the prophets.”
Mystery of God… prophets - the Kingdom of Christ
8 Then the voice that I had heard from heaven spoke to me once
more: “Go, take the scroll that lies open in the hand of the angel
who is standing on the sea and on the land.”
9 So I went to the angel and asked him to give me the little
Revelation Page 54

9 So I went to the angel and asked him to give me the little
scroll. He said to me, “Take it and eat it. It will turn your
stomach sour, but ‘in your mouth it will be as sweet as honey.’”
Eat it - reminiscent of Ezekiel
Sour/Sweet - revelation from God is sweet to know, but the
coming wrath will be "sour" to contemplate
10 I took the little scroll from the angel’s hand and ate it. It
tasted as sweet as honey in my mouth, but when I had eaten it,
my stomach turned sour.
11 Then I was told, “You must prophesy again about many
peoples, nations, languages and kings.”
Prophesy again - John's revelation for the world is not done
CHAPTER ELEVEN
Revelation 11:1–14
1 I was given a reed like a measuring rod and was told, “Go and
measure the temple of God and the altar, with its worshipers.
Measure - the action implies ownership, the Temple
belongs to God and so do the people
The Temple - this is the rebuilt Temple in Jerusalem on
earth
Revelation Page 55

2 But exclude the outer court; do not measure it, because it has
been given to the Gentiles. They will trample on the holy city for
42 months.
Trample - have the city of Jerusalem under their feet
42 months - the second half (3.5 years) of the Great
Tribulation
3 And I will appoint my two witnesses, and they will prophesy
for 1,260 days, clothed in sackcloth.”
Two Witnesses - these are two prophets appointed by God
for this time. Popular ideas have been (a) Elijah & Enoch
and (b) Moses & Elijah. Both comes with challenges new
prophets do not.
4 They are “the two olive trees” and the two lampstands, and
“they stand before the Lord of the earth.”
Two olive trees - two prophets from the Jewish people
Two lampstands - both are followers of Christ
5 If anyone tries to harm them, fire comes from their mouths
and devours their enemies. This is how anyone who wants to
harm them must die.
Harm them/fire - this is a supernatural defense for the
prophets
6 They have power to shut up the heavens so that it will not rain
Revelation Page 56

6 They have power to shut up the heavens so that it will not rain
during the time they are prophesying; and they have power to
turn the waters into blood and to strike the earth with every
kind of plague as often as they want.
Shut up the heavens - like Elijah
Water into blood - like Moses
7 Now when they have finished their testimony, the beast that
comes up from the Abyss will attack them, and overpower and
kill them.
Finished their testimony - their "witness" /mart-tor-ee-ah/
8 Their bodies will lie in the public square of the great city—
which is figuratively called Sodom and Egypt—where also their
Lord was crucified.
Sodom/Egypt - could refer to the false control of the Holy
City
Was crucified - clearly Jerusalem
9 For three and a half days some from every people, tribe,
language and nation will gaze on their bodies and refuse them
burial.
Gaze on their bodies - the people will revel in their death
10 The inhabitants of the earth will gloat over them and will
celebrate by sending each other gifts, because these two
prophets had tormented those who live on the earth.
Revelation Page 57

prophets had tormented those who live on the earth.
11 But after the three and a half days the breath of life from
God entered them, and they stood on their feet, and terror
struck those who saw them.
Terror struck - the power of God is awesome and fearful
12 Then they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them,
“Come up here.” And they went up to heaven in a cloud, while
their enemies looked on.
Come up here - God calls His servants to Himself
13 At that very hour there was a severe earthquake and a tenth
of the city collapsed. Seven thousand people were killed in the
earthquake, and the survivors were terrified and gave glory to
the God of heaven.
7,000 died - punishment for killing the Witnesses
Gave glory - another action pointing people back to God
14 The second woe has passed; the third woe is coming soon.
15 The seventh angel sounded his trumpet, and there were loud
voices in heaven, which said: “The kingdom of the world has
become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Messiah, and he will
reign for ever and ever.”
Kingdom of the World - Jesus is now bringing His rule to
earth
Revelation Page 58

16 And the twenty-four elders, who were seated on their
thrones before God, fell on their faces and worshiped God,
17 saying: “We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, the One
who is and who was, because you have taken your great power
and have begun to reign.
18 The nations were angry, and your wrath has come. The time
has come for judging the dead, and for rewarding your servants
the prophets and your people who revere your name, both
great and small— and for destroying those who destroy the
earth.”
19 Then God’s temple in heaven was opened, and within his
temple was seen the ark of his covenant. And there came
flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, an earthquake
and a severe hailstorm.
Ark of his covenant - the symbol of the victorious power of
God
CHAPTER TWELVE
Revelation 12:1–17
1 A great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the
sun, with the moon under her feet and a crown of twelve stars
on her head.
A great sign - signs direct attention and meaning; great
Revelation Page 59

A great sign - signs direct attention and meaning; great
speaks to the importance of the sign, not the size or scale
A woman - this is the nation of Israel; the Hebrew people
Sun, Moon, 12 stars - reminiscent of Joseph's dream
2 She was pregnant and cried out in pain as she was about to
give birth.
Give birth - the Jewish people brought forth their Messiah
to bless the world and fulfill Genesis 3:15
3 Then another sign appeared in heaven: an enormous red
dragon with seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns on its
heads.
Red dragon - this is Satan, the enemy of God and His people
4 Its tail swept a third of the stars out of the sky and flung them
to the earth. The dragon stood in front of the woman who was
about to give birth, so that it might devour her child the
moment he was born.
Third of the Stars - this is where we get the idea that Satan
convinced 1/3 of the angels to rebel against God. Satan is
opposed to Christ and the plan of God all the time.
5 She gave birth to a son, a male child, who “will rule all the
nations with an iron scepter.” And her child was snatched up to
God and to his throne.
Rule all the nations - this is Christ, the King of Kings
Revelation Page 60

Rule all the nations - this is Christ, the King of Kings
6 The woman fled into the wilderness to a place prepared for
her by God, where she might be taken care of for 1,260 days.
Fled into the wilderness - a place of safety with God
1,260 days - another reference to the second 3.5 years
7 Then war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought
against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back.
THEN war broke out - the "then" places this event after the
previous; this is a future assault on Heaven, not the original
angelic fall
8 But he was not strong enough, and they lost their place in
heaven.
Lost their place - like losing ground in a battle
9 The great dragon was hurled down—that ancient serpent
called the devil, or Satan, who leads the whole world astray. He
was hurled to the earth, and his angels with him.
Hurled down - now Satan is removed from heaven
altogether
Angels with him - fallen angels which we call demons
10 Then I heard a loud voice in heaven say: “Now have come
the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God, and
the authority of his Messiah. For the accuser of our brothers
Revelation Page 61

the authority of his Messiah. For the accuser of our brothers
and sisters, who accuses them before our God day and night,
has been hurled down.
Now have come - another reference to an event after the
assault
Brothers and sisters - this is hard to reconcile with the pre-
cosmic fall of Satan; why would John use "brothers and
sisters"
11 They triumphed over him by the blood of the Lamb and by
the word of their testimony; they did not love their lives so
much as to shrink from death.
Blood of the Lamb - impossible to have with a pre-cosmic
fall
12 Therefore rejoice, you heavens and you who dwell in them!
But woe to the earth and the sea, because the devil has gone
down to you! He is filled with fury, because he knows that his
time is short.”
Time is short - also fits better with a future assault view
13 When the dragon saw that he had been hurled to the earth,
he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child.
Pursued the woman - Satan now focuses his attack on Israel
14 The woman was given the two wings of a great eagle, so
that she might fly to the place prepared for her in the
wilderness, where she would be taken care of for a time, times
Revelation Page 62

wilderness, where she would be taken care of for a time, times
and half a time, out of the serpent’s reach.
Time, times & half a time - a reference to 3.5 years
15 Then from his mouth the serpent spewed water like a river,
to overtake the woman and sweep her away with the torrent.
16 But the earth helped the woman by opening its mouth and
swallowing the river that the dragon had spewed out of his
mouth.
Like a river - there is no clear interpretation of what this
Satanic attack is, only that God protects His people from it.
17 Then the dragon was enraged at the woman and went off to
wage war against the rest of her offspring—those who keep
God’s commands and hold fast their testimony about Jesus.
Her offspring - this is the Church of Jesus Christ
The Takeaway:
God chose Israel as the object of His love. So too, Satan will
select Israel as the object is his wrath. There is a very real
spiritual war going on and it will intensify during the Great
Tribulation period.
Revelation Page 63

Chapters 13
Tuesday, November 7, 2023 1:31 PM
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises. Creation will be free from the presence of, effects of,
and desire to sin forever.
The Frame:
Four outstanding promises set our expectations for what to
look for in the book of Revelation. They are: (1) a son of Eve will
defeat sin forever, (2) the descendants of Abraham will receive
the promised land inheritance (3) a descendant of David will
rule as a "forever king", (4) Jesus will accomplish these in His
kingdom built on faith in Him.
Review:
John the apostle wrote Revelation in AD 95-96 after being
exiled to Patmos by Emperor Domitian. We will be reading
Revelation from the futurist perspective in which chapters 4-22
describe events which haven't happened yet.
Key Verse for interpretation:
1:19 Write, therefore, what you have seen, what is now and
what will take place later.
Three different times:
have seen (past) - chapter 1
is now (present) - chapters 2,3
will take place (future) chapters 4-22
Revelation Page 64

Outline of Revelation:
Ch1 - Introduction
Ch2,3 - New Testament Churches
Ch4,5 - Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 - The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 - Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 - Eternal Kingdom
Outline of Chapter 13
13:1-2 - Calling the first beast (the antichrist)
13:3-4 - Worship of the antichrist
13:5-8 - Authority of the antichrist
13:9-10 - Calling for endurance of the faithful
13:11 - Calling of the second beast (the false prophet)
13:12-15 - Leading the false worship of the antichrist
13:16-18 - Authority over commerce through a mark
Revelation 13:1–18
1 The dragon stood on the shore of the sea. And I saw a beast
coming out of the sea. It had ten horns and seven heads, with
ten crowns on its horns, and on each head a blasphemous
name.
Dragon stood - the dragon is now doing the work from the
end of the previous chapter, he will be persecuting
Christians for their faith in Christ Jesus.
Of the sea - in biblical terms, the "sea" or "ocean" often
Revelation Page 65

Of the sea - in biblical terms, the "sea" or "ocean" often
refers to gentile people or gentile power. (Rev 12:17)
10 horns & 7 heads - horns present power, could be 10
nations or a group of nations banded together.
2 The beast I saw resembled a leopard, but had feet like those
of a bear and a mouth like that of a lion. The dragon gave the
beast his power and his throne and great authority.
Leopard, Bear, Lion - a direct reference to Daniel's dream in
Dan. 7
3 One of the heads of the beast seemed to have had a fatal
wound, but the fatal wound had been healed. The whole world
was filled with wonder and followed the beast.
A fatal wound - this will be the antichrist's way to being a
false resurrected messiah.
4 People worshiped the dragon because he had given authority
to the beast, and they also worshiped the beast and asked,
“Who is like the beast? Who can wage war against it?”
People worshiped the dragon - humanity's response will be
to place worship and faith in the antichrist as an object of
worship
5 The beast was given a mouth to utter proud words and
blasphemies and to exercise its authority for forty-two months.
Proud words / blasphemies - the words of the antichrist
will be against God's will and design
Revelation Page 66

will be against God's will and design
6 It opened its mouth to blaspheme God, and to slander his
name and his dwelling place and those who live in heaven.
Slander his name and dwelling place - the antichrist will be
100% opposed to God and His plans. He will stop at nothing
to steal worship from God and give it to himself.
7 It was given power to wage war against God’s holy people
and to conquer them. And it was given authority over every
tribe, people, language and nation.
Given power - notice the power had to be given to it, it did
not "take" or "possess" the power on its own.
8 All inhabitants of the earth will worship the beast—all whose
names have not been written in the Lamb’s book of life, the
Lamb who was slain from the creation of the world.
All inhabitants - this is the plan, Satan wants to replace
God, and thus will draw the world to worship him in his
"unholy trinity"
Lamb's book of life - the registry of citizens of Christ's
Kingdom
9 Whoever has ears, let them hear.
Let them hear - A literary device used by John to point the
attention of the reader to what he is about today?
10 “If anyone is to go into captivity, into captivity they will go. If
Revelation Page 67

10 “If anyone is to go into captivity, into captivity they will go. If
anyone is to be killed with the sword, with the sword they will
be killed.” This calls for patient endurance and faithfulness on
the part of God’s people.
If anyone - this is a sober view of this time, "embrace the
suck"
11 Then I saw a second beast, coming out of the earth. It had
two horns like a lamb, but it spoke like a dragon.
Second beast - this is not the dragon or the antichrist, this is
person is known as the "false prophet" together they
attempt to create a "false trinity" feigning the positions of
the holy trinity of the Godhead
Satan - the 'power' person pretending to be the Father
Antichrist - the 'resurrected' person pretending to be the
Son
False Prophet - the 'directing' person pretending to be the
Spirit
12 It exercised all the authority of the first beast on its behalf,
and made the earth and its inhabitants worship the first beast,
whose fatal wound had been healed.
All the authority - Satan gave his authority to the antichrist
(v4)
Inhabitants worship - the false prophet drives people to
false worship
13 And it performed great signs, even causing fire to come
down from heaven to the earth in full view of the people.
Revelation Page 68

down from heaven to the earth in full view of the people.
Great signs - the power of Satan will be displayed to cause
false worship of a false trinity
14 Because of the signs it was given power to perform on behalf
of the first beast, it deceived the inhabitants of the earth. It
ordered them to set up an image in honor of the beast who was
wounded by the sword and yet lived.
Because of the signs - the false worship is based on false
miracles
Deceived the inhabitants - people are lead away by false
power
Yet lived - this will be the false "resurrection" of the
antichrist
15 The second beast was given power to give breath to the
image of the first beast, so that the image could speak and
cause all who refused to
worship the image to be killed.
Given power - given from who? If Satan, he does not
possess this; if God, then why would God help Satan to
deceive mankind. It seems more reasonable to see this not
as real life, but a deception or imitation of God's power.
16 It also forced all people, great and small, rich and poor, free
and slave, to receive a mark on their right hands or on their
foreheads,
Forced all people - this is worldwide governmental
enforcement
Revelation Page 69

enforcement
17 so that they could not buy or sell unless they had the mark,
which is the name of the beast or the number of its name.
18 This calls for wisdom. Let the person who has insight
calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man.
That number is 666.
The number - many have tried and failed. This will remain a
mystery until the end of days when the beast is revealed.
The Takeaway:
Satan will raise up a "false trinity" to lead the world in false
worship through governmental and religious control.
Revelation Page 70

Chapter 14
Monday, February 12, 2024 12:50 PM
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises. Creation will be free from the presence of, effects of,
and desire to sin forever.
Who wrote Revelation?
A man named John (Rev 1:4)
When was Revelation written?
AD 64-65 (during Nero’s persecution of the Church)
Who is Revelation talking about?
The Church is grafted into national Israel
When is Revelation talking about?
Ch1 (past), Ch2-3 (present), Ch4-22 (future), see Revelation
1:19
What is Revelation talking about?
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises.
What promises should we look for Revelation to fulfill?
The Eden Promise (Genesis 3:15)
The Abrahamic Covenant (Genesis 12:1-3)
The Davidic Covenant (2 Samuel 7:14-16)
The New Covenant (Ezekiel 36:26-28, Luke 22:20, John 3:16-18)
Outline of Revelation:
Ch1 - Introduction
Revelation Page 71

Ch1 - Introduction
Ch2,3 - New Testament Churches
Ch4,5 - Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 - The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 - Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 - Eternal Kingdom
Outline of Chapter 14
14:1-5 - A vision of the Lamb's Triumph
14:6 - A vision of the Lamb's Judgment
Revelation 14
1 Then I looked, and there before me was the Lamb, standing on
Mount Zion, and with him 144,000 who had his name and his
Father’s name written on their foreheads.
Looked / before me - John is "seeing" these things in a
vision. They are literal things He sees which also have
spiritual significance
The Lamb - this is Jesus, now the triumphant King and Judge
Standing on Mount Zion - this can refer to either
(1) a sole spiritual Zion referring to the hearts of the
144,000
(2) a literal Zion on earth, the place of Jesus's earthly rule
(3) a heavenly Zion, the place Jesus's heavenly rule
144,000 - the same from 7:3-4 who were "sealed" by God.
These are humans alive on the earth during the Great
Tribulation
Revelation Page 72

Tribulation
Written on their foreheads - this is the opposite of the
"mark of the beast" this is the protective mark of the Father
guarding His people during the Great Tribulation
2 And I heard a sound from heaven like the roar of rushing
waters and like a loud peal of thunder. The sound I heard was
like that of harpists playing their harps.
Heard a sound - John now HEARS as well as SEES
From Heaven - the sound of worship is viewed as "from
heaven"
Rushing waters / thunder - the sound is loud and obscures
others
Harpists playing - the deafening sound gives way to worship
3 And they sang a new song before the throne and before the
four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song
except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth.
Sang a new song - this is a song of worship to the Lamb
(Jesus)
Before the throne/creatures/elders - clearly heaven, can't
be earth
Revelation Page 73

be earth
144,000
Redeemed from the earth - if the 144,000 are ON THE
EARTH, their redemption is from the apostacy of the Great
Tribulation
4 These are those who did not defile themselves with women,
for they remained virgins. They follow the Lamb wherever he
goes. They were purchased from among mankind and offered
as firstfruits to God and the Lamb.
5 No lie was found in their mouths; they are blameless.
John gives character traits of the 144,000 faithful on earth
1: did not defile themselves with women - this is either
literal sexual immorality or idolatry
2: they remain virgins - The only use in Scripture of male
virgins. Like Paul, these men chose to remain celibate to
serve the Lord
3: follow the Lamb wherever - their obedience is exemplary
4: they were purchased - they are saved, redeemed
believers
5: they are a "first fruits" of the kind of mass salvation we
will see during the Tribulation and Millennial Reign of Christ
Revelation Page 74

6 Then I saw another angel flying in midair, and he had the
eternal gospel to proclaim to those who live on the earth—to
every nation, tribe, language and people.
7 He said in a loud voice, “Fear God and give him glory, because
the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the
heavens, the earth, the sea and the springs of water.”
The "eternal gospel" is not just a sin transaction, but the
promise that Jesus will return to earth and bring judgment
on the sin of our world
This is a call to worship the Lamb, because judgment is
coming
8 A second angel followed and said, “ ‘Fallen! Fallen is Babylon
the Great,’ which made all the nations drink the maddening
wine of her adulteries.”
Fallen is Babylon - the identification of Babylon here could
be:
(1) a figurative term for the "world government" setup
by the Antichrist in the previous chapters
(2) a literal rebuilt Babylon
(3) the "world power" or influence of Satan behind the
scenes leading people and nations further from the Lord
Made all the nations drink - this sounds like a power at
Revelation Page 75

Made all the nations drink - this sounds like a power at
work during the Great Tribulation, so they could all be true
in that sense
9 A third angel followed them and said in a loud voice: “If
anyone worships the beast and its image and receives its mark
on their forehead or on their hand,
10 they, too, will drink the wine of God’s fury, which has been
poured full strength into the cup of his wrath. They will be
tormented with burning sulfur in the presence of the holy angels
and of the Lamb.
11 And the smoke of their torment will rise for ever and ever.
There will be no rest day or night for those who worship the
beast and its image, or for anyone who receives the mark of its
name.”
Third angel… said - this message is a warning of impending
doom for those who worshiped the beast during the Great
Tribulation. Judgement on the sin of the world is coming…
12 This calls for patient endurance on the part of the people of
God who keep his commands and remain faithful to Jesus.
Calls for patient endurance - staying faithful during
persecution was a main function of the early church and the
future church
People of God - this appears to refer to faithful still alive on
earth during the Great Tribulation
Revelation Page 76

earth during the Great Tribulation
13 Then I heard a voice from heaven say, “Write this: Blessed
are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.” “Yes,” says the
Spirit, “they will rest from their labor, for their deeds will follow
them.”
Blessed are the dead - those who die for their faith during
the Tribulation will "rest" from persecution.
Yes says the Spirit - the Holy Spirit confirms the message of
rest
Deeds will follow them - the Lord will remember the faith
of His people
14 I looked, and there before me was a white cloud, and seated
on the cloud was one like a son of man with a crown of gold on
his head and a sharp sickle in his hand.
I looked - another part of the vision John SAW
Son of man - this is Jesus, the divine Savior King
Sharp sickle - the gospel message ends with reaping
Mid-Trib Rapture? - some have tried to use this section of
Scripture to support a mid-tribulation rapture. This ignores
the context of this section which features judgment, not
joy.
Revelation Page 77

15 Then another angel came out of the temple and called in a
loud voice to him who was sitting on the cloud, “Take your
sickle and reap, because the time to reap has come, for the
harvest of the earth is ripe.”
Another angel - this angel is not commanding Christ, it is
announcing the time for Christ is harvest has come.
16 So he who was seated on the cloud swung his sickle over the
earth, and the earth was harvested.
Earth was harvested - this is the Lamb pouring out wrath on
His enemies; not a portrait we normally think of about
Jesus.
17Another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too
had a sharp sickle.
18 Still another angel, wfceho had charge of the fire, came from
the altar and called in a loud voice to him who had the sharp
sickle, “Take your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of grapes
from the earth’s vine, because its grapes are ripe.”
19 The angel swung his sickle on the earth, gathered its grapes
and threw them into the great winepress of God’s wrath.
Winepress of God's wrath - God pours His wrath out on the
unrepentant. Those who refuse to follow Him. This is the
destructive fury of the Messiah Savior King redeeming His
people and creation
Revelation Page 78

people and creation
20 They were trampled in the winepress outside the city, and
blood flowed out of the press, rising as high as the horses’
bridles for a distance of 1,600 stadia.
Outside the city - this is likely Jerusalem. If so, then the
mass deaths we see would most likely be those who die in
the final battle of Armageddon.
Blood flowed - this refers to literal human blood, shed at
the final battle when Christ returns to reclaim His throne
and people.
1,600 stadia - is about 200 miles
The Takeaway:
The return of Jesus will be joy for some and judgment for
others. Jesus is returning as the Savior King who tramples those
who stand against Him.
Revelation Page 79

Chapter 15-16
Monday, February 19, 2024 1:19 PM
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises. Creation will be free from the presence of, effects of,
and desire to sin forever.
Who wrote Revelation?
A man named John (Rev 1:4)
When was Revelation written?
AD 64-65 (during Nero’s persecution of the Church)
Who is Revelation talking about?
The Church is grafted into national Israel
When is Revelation talking about?
Ch1 (past), Ch2-3 (present), Ch4-22 (future), see Revelation
1:19
What is Revelation talking about?
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises.
What promises should we look for Revelation to fulfill?
The Eden Promise (Genesis 3:15)
The Abrahamic Covenant (Genesis 12:1-3)
The Davidic Covenant (2 Samuel 7:14-16)
The New Covenant (Ezekiel 36:26-28, Luke 22:20, John 3:16-18)
Outline of Revelation:
Ch1 - Introduction
Revelation Page 80

Ch1 - Introduction
Ch2,3 - New Testament Churches
Ch4,5 - Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 - The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 - Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 - Eternal Kingdom
Outline of Chapters 15-16
15:1 - a description of the next two chapters content
15:2-4 - a song of praise highlighting God's universal authority
15:5-8 - introduction to the seven bowl judgments
16:1-21 - the seven bowl judgments of God's wrath
Revelation 15:1–16:21
1 I saw in heaven another great and marvelous sign: seven
angels with the seven last plagues—last, because with them
God’s wrath is completed.
Saw in heaven - John is describing what he SAW in a vision
Marvelous sign - the angels and bowl SIGNAL coming
events
Because - John gives us the reason for the events
God's wrath - the final judgments are the wrath of God
2 And I saw what looked like a sea of glass glowing with fire
Revelation Page 81

2 And I saw what looked like a sea of glass glowing with fire
and, standing beside the sea, those who had been victorious
over the beast and its image and over the number of its name.
They held harps given them by God
Sea of glass - mentioned before in 4:6, but now mixed with
fire. Likely this is the majesty of God, now mixed with His
fury of wrath
Those who had been victorious - martyrs who did not
renounce the faith during the Great Tribulation
3 and sang the song of God’s servant Moses and of the Lamb:
“Great and marvelous are your deeds, Lord God Almighty. Just
and true are your ways, King of the nations.
Sang the song - those who persevered now praised; like
those rescued from tyranny in Egypt, these martyrs are now
freed from the tyranny of the Antichrist
Great and marvelous - God's deeds inspire awe
Just and true - God's actions can always be trusted
King of nations - God's proper place as king of all nations
4 Who will not fear you, Lord, and bring glory to your name? For
you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship before
you, for your righteous acts have been revealed.”
You alone are holy - God alone is "set apart" from all less
Revelation Page 82

You alone are holy - God alone is "set apart" from all less
than Him. He chose to create, love, and save humanity.
All nations will come - the authority of God will be
recognized
5 After this I looked, and I saw in heaven the temple—that is,
the tabernacle of the covenant law—and it was opened.
After this I looked - a chronological marker of a new
elements
The tabernacle - the place of God's presence and authority
6 Out of the temple came the seven angels with the seven
plagues. They were dressed in clean, shining linen and wore
golden sashes around their chests.
Seven angels with seven plagues - like the seals, and
trumpets, this is the last "set" of judgments on the earth,
they "conclude" God's judgment, signaling the end of it
7 Then one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels
seven golden bowls filled with the wrath of God, who lives for
ever and ever.
Golden bowls filled with wrath - wrath is the focus here
8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God
Revelation Page 83

8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God
and from his power, and no one could enter the temple until the
seven plagues of the seven angels were completed.
Until the seven plagues - this introduces the next chapter
This is the "heavenly cause" of the earthly woes
[chapter 16]
1 Then I heard a loud voice from the temple saying to the seven
angels, “Go, pour out the seven bowls of God’s wrath on the
earth.”
Go, pour out - the voice of God directing the angels
2 The first angel went and poured out his bowl on the land, and
ugly, festering sores broke out on the people who had the mark
of the beast and worshiped its image.
FIRST BOWL - Painful Sores on anyone who joined the
antichrist's false system of worship
Like the redemption from Egypt, God's faithful are spared
from His wrath while those who held His people captive
received it
3 The second angel poured out his bowl on the sea, and it
turned into blood like that of a dead person, and every living
thing in the sea died.
Revelation Page 84

SECOND BOWL - Sea Turned to Blood causing massive
death
4 The third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and springs
of water, and they became blood.
THIRD BOWL - Fresh Water Turned to Blood though not
mentioned, this likely has the same effect as the previous
verse, massive death
5 Then I heard the angel in charge of the waters say: “You are
just in these judgments, O Holy One, you who are and who
were;
You are just - only the One who is wholly just can judge
without impunity
You who are and who were - this illustrates God's
eternality
6 for they have shed the blood of your holy people and your
prophets, and you have given them blood to drink as they
deserve.”
They have shed blood - God's judgement comes to those
who killed His people in previous times
7 And I heard the altar respond: “Yes, Lord God Almighty, true
Revelation Page 85

7 And I heard the altar respond: “Yes, Lord God Almighty, true
and just are your judgments.”
8 The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and the sun
was allowed to scorch people with fire.
FORTH BOWL - Scorched Earth by the power of the sun's
rays
9 They were seared by the intense heat and they cursed the
name of God, who had control over these plagues, but they
refused to repent and glorify him.
Cursed the name of God - they KNEW the events were from
God
Refused to repent - the attitude of their hearts is rebellion
10 The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the
beast, and its kingdom was plunged into darkness. People
gnawed their tongues in agony
FIFTH BOWL - Darkness on the "throne of the beast" like
Egypt
11 and cursed the God of heaven because of their pains and
their sores, but they refused to repent of what they had done.
Refused to repent - again, the people at this time refuse to
repent
12 The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river
Revelation Page 86

12 The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river
Euphrates, and its water was dried up to prepare the way for
the kings from the East.
SIXTH BOWL - Demonic Influence to War
13 Then I saw three impure spirits that looked like frogs; they
came out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the
beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet.
Dragon, beast, false prophet - out of the false trinity
14 They are demonic spirits that perform signs, and they go out
to the kings of the whole world, to gather them for the battle on
the great day of God Almighty.
15 “Look, I come like a thief! Blessed is the one who stays
awake and remains clothed, so as not to go naked and be
shamefully exposed.”
16 Then they gathered the kings together to the place that in
Hebrew is called Armageddon.
Gathered the kings together - this is a joint military effort
to stage forces for the battle of Armageddon
17 The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and out
of the temple came a loud voice from the throne, saying, “It is
done!”
SEVENTH BOWL - Natural Devastation
18 Then there came flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of
Revelation Page 87

18 Then there came flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of
thunder and a severe earthquake. No earthquake like it has ever
occurred since mankind has been on earth, so tremendous was
the quake.
19 The great city split into three parts, and the cities of the
nations collapsed. God remembered Babylon the Great and
gave her the cup filled with the wine of the fury of his wrath.
20 Every island fled away and the mountains could not be
found.
21 From the sky huge hailstones, each weighing about a
hundred pounds, fell on people. And they cursed God on
account of the plague of hail, because the plague was so
terrible.
The Takeaway:
God's final bowl judgments will pour out wrath on an
unrepentant world. The faithful should be wise and refuse to
relent to the world's power.
Revelation Page 88

Chapters 17-19
Monday, February 26, 2024 1:16 PM
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises. Creation will be free from the presence of, effects of,
and desire to sin forever.
Who wrote Revelation?
A man named John (Rev 1:4)
When was Revelation written?
AD 64-65 (during Nero’s persecution of the Church)
Who is Revelation talking about?
The Church is grafted into national Israel
When is Revelation talking about?
Ch1 (past), Ch2-3 (present), Ch4-22 (future), see Revelation
1:19
What is Revelation talking about?
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises.
What promises should we look for Revelation to fulfill?
The Eden Promise (Genesis 3:15)
The Abrahamic Covenant (Genesis 12:1-3)
The Davidic Covenant (2 Samuel 7:14-16)
The New Covenant (Ezekiel 36:26-28, Luke 22:20, John 3:16-18)
Outline of Revelation:
Ch1 - Introduction
Revelation Page 89

Ch1 - Introduction
Ch2,3 - New Testament Churches
Ch4,5 - Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 - The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 - Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 - Eternal Kingdom
Outline of Chapters 17-19
17:1-6 - The Prostitute & The Beast
17:7-18 - Explanation of the Symbols
18:1-3 - Angelic Declaration of Babylon's Fall
18:4-8 - Warning to Escape Babylon
18:9-20 - The Commercial Fall of Babylon
18:21-24 - The Totality of Babylon's Destruction
19:1-8 - Rejoicing in Heaven
19:9-10 - Instructions to John
19:11-21 - The Return of the King
Revelation 17:1–19:21
[Chapter 17]
17:1-6 - The Prostitute & The Beast
The woman is false religion.
The beast is the restored Babylon/Roman state.
During the Tribulation there will be a restored Babylonian
empire in which authority of the state and the worship of
Revelation Page 90

empire in which authority of the state and the worship of
false religion will be reunited. This will mirror the Roman
empire of John's day.
No separation of church and state
1 One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and
said to me, “Come, I will show you the punishment of the great
prostitute, who sits by many waters.
One of the seven - of the angels with the bowl judgments
I will show you - John is given a view of the spiritual reality
Great prostitute - sexual immorality = false religion
Many water - represents many peoples (v15)
2 With her the kings of the earth committed adultery, and the
inhabitants of the earth were intoxicated with the wine of her
adulteries.”
Kings of the earth - humans given the responsibility of
authority
Committed adultery - worshiped false idols and gods
Inhabitants of the earth - those peoples the kings oversaw
3 Then the angel carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness.
There I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast that was covered
with blasphemous names and had seven heads and ten horns.
4 The woman was dressed in purple and scarlet, and was
glittering with gold, precious stones and pearls. She held a
Revelation Page 91

glittering with gold, precious stones and pearls. She held a
golden cup in her hand, filled with abominable things and the
filth of her adulteries.
5 The name written on her forehead was a mystery: BABYLON
THE GREAT THE MOTHER OF PROSTITUTES AND OF THE
ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.
Babylon the great - a restored anti-Christ Babylonian state
Mother of prostitutes - Babylon will get others to worship
falsely
6 I saw that the woman was drunk with the blood of God’s holy
people, the blood of those who bore testimony to Jesus. When I
saw her, I was greatly astonished.
Drunk with the blood - the woman was relished in the
killing of Christians to the point she is drink with it.
17:7-18 - Explanation of the Symbols
7 Then the angel said to me: “Why are you astonished? I will
explain to you the mystery of the woman and of the beast she
rides, which has the seven heads and ten horns.
Beast she rides - the false religion controls Babylonian state
8 The beast, which you saw, once was, now is not, and yet will
come up out of the Abyss and go to its destruction. The
inhabitants of the earth whose names have not been written in
the book of life from the creation of the world will be astonished
when they see the beast, because it once was, now is not, and
Revelation Page 92

when they see the beast, because it once was, now is not, and
yet will come.
9 “This calls for a mind with wisdom. The seven heads are seven
hills on which the woman sits.
10 They are also seven kings. Five have fallen, one is, the other
has not yet come; but when he does come, he must remain for
only a little while.
Seven kings - men who have been given the responsibility
to rule
11 The beast who once was, and now is not, is an eighth king.
He belongs to the seven and is going to his destruction.
12 “The ten horns you saw are ten kings who have not yet
received a kingdom, but who for one hour will receive authority
as kings along with the beast.
10 kings - men who will be given the responsibility to rule
13 They have one purpose and will give their power and
authority to the beast.
One purpose - the sole purpose of their authority is to give
it to
14 They will wage war against the Lamb, but the Lamb will
triumph over them because he is Lord of lords and King of
kings—and with him will be his called, chosen and faithful
followers.”
Revelation Page 93

Wage war against the Lamb - this is warfare against Jesus
after His millennial reign on earth
Lamb will triumph - Jesus wins!
15 Then the angel said to me, “The waters you saw, where the
prostitute sits, are peoples, multitudes, nations and languages.
The waters - these are whole nations who will be "lead" by
the Woman's control over the Babylonian state
16 The beast and the ten horns you saw will hate the prostitute.
They will bring her to ruin and leave her naked; they will eat her
flesh and burn her with fire.
Hate the prostitute - eventually, the Babylonian state will
turn against false religion, striking it down as she did
Christians
17 For God has put it into their hearts to accomplish his purpose
by agreeing to hand over to the beast their royal authority, until
God’s words are fulfilled.
18 The woman you saw is the great city that rules over the kings
of the earth.”
The woman is false religion.
[chapter 18]
18:1-3 - Angelic Declaration of Babylon's Fall
Revelation Page 94

18:1-3 - Angelic Declaration of Babylon's Fall
1 After this I saw another angel coming down from heaven. He
had great authority, and the earth was illuminated by his
splendor.
2 With a mighty voice he shouted: “ ‘Fallen! Fallen is Babylon
the Great!’ She has become a dwelling for demons and a haunt
for every impure spirit, a haunt for every unclean bird, a haunt
for every unclean and detestable animal.
3 For all the nations have drunk the maddening wine of her
adulteries. The kings of the earth committed adultery with her,
and the merchants of the earth grew rich from her excessive
luxuries.”
Nations - whole nations will be led into idolatry
Merchants - commercial idolatry will be rampant
Both are commonplace in first century Rome!
18:4-8 - Warning to Escape Babylon
4 Then I heard another voice from heaven say: “ ‘Come out of
her, my people,’ so that you will not share in her sins, so that
you will not receive any of her plagues;
Come out of her - stop committing idolatry
Share in sins/plagues - the plagues are for the idolatrous
5 for her sins are piled up to heaven, and God has remembered
her crimes.
Revelation Page 95

her crimes.
Remembered her crimes - God's judgment is just
6 Give back to her as she has given; pay her back double for
what she has done. Pour her a double portion from her own
cup.
7 Give her as much torment and grief as the glory and luxury
she gave herself. In her heart she boasts, ‘I sit enthroned as
queen. I am not a widow; I will never mourn.’
8 Therefore in one day her plagues will overtake her: death,
mourning and famine. She will be consumed by fire, for mighty
is the Lord God who judges her.
In one day - God will strike down all false religion in one day
18:9-20 - The Commercial Fall of Babylon
9 “When the kings of the earth who committed adultery with
her and shared her luxury see the smoke of her burning, they
will weep and mourn over her.
10 Terrified at her torment, they will stand far off and cry:
“ ‘Woe! Woe to you, great city, you mighty city of Babylon! In
one hour your doom has come!’
City of Babylon - a rebuilt Babylon / Roman empire
11 “The merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her
because no one buys their cargoes anymore—
Revelation Page 96

because no one buys their cargoes anymore—
Merchants - commercial idolatry will fall
Skip to 20
12 cargoes of gold, silver, precious stones and pearls; fine linen,
purple, silk and scarlet cloth; every sort of citron wood, and
articles of every kind made of ivory, costly wood, bronze, iron
and marble;
13 cargoes of cinnamon and spice, of incense, myrrh and
frankincense, of wine and olive oil, of fine flour and wheat;
cattle and sheep; horses and carriages; and human beings sold
as slaves.
14 “They will say, ‘The fruit you longed for is gone from you. All
your luxury and splendor have vanished, never to be recovered.’
15 The merchants who sold these things and gained their
wealth from her will stand far off, terrified at her torment. They
will weep and mourn
16 and cry out: “ ‘Woe! Woe to you, great city, dressed in fine
linen, purple and scarlet, and glittering with gold, precious
stones and pearls!
17 In one hour such great wealth has been brought to ruin!’
“Every sea captain, and all who travel by ship, the sailors, and
all who earn their living from the sea, will stand far off.
18 When they see the smoke of her burning, they will exclaim,
‘Was there ever a city like this great city?’
Revelation Page 97

‘Was there ever a city like this great city?’
19 They will throw dust on their heads, and with weeping and
mourning cry out: “ ‘Woe! Woe to you, great city, where all who
had ships on the sea became rich through her wealth! In one
hour she has been brought to ruin!’
20 “Rejoice over her, you heavens! Rejoice, you people of God!
Rejoice, apostles and prophets! For God has judged her with the
judgment she imposed on you.”
Poetic justice - God judges idolatry with the punishments
used on Christians at that time
18:21-24 - The Totality of Babylon's Destruction
21 Then a mighty angel picked up a boulder the size of a large
millstone and threw it into the sea, and said: “With such
violence the great city of Babylon will be thrown down, never to
be found again.
Never to be found again - there is no resurrection for
Babylon
22 The music of harpists and musicians, pipers and trumpeters,
will never be heard in you again. No worker of any trade will
ever be found in you again. The sound of a millstone will never
be heard in you again.
No entertainment or commerce will be had again
23 The light of a lamp will never shine in you again. The voice of
Revelation Page 98

23 The light of a lamp will never shine in you again. The voice of
bridegroom and bride will never be heard in you again. Your
merchants were the world’s important people. By your magic
spell all the nations were led astray.
24 In her was found the blood of prophets and of God’s holy
people, of all who have been slaughtered on the earth.”
[chapter 19]
19:1-8 - Rejoicing in Heaven
1 After this I heard what sounded like the roar of a great
multitude in heaven shouting: “Hallelujah! Salvation and glory
and power belong to our God,
2 for true and just are his judgments. He has condemned the
great prostitute who corrupted the earth by her adulteries. He
has avenged on her the blood of his servants.”
3 And again they shouted: “Hallelujah! The smoke from her
goes up for ever and ever.”
4 The twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down
and worshiped God, who was seated on the throne. And they
cried: “Amen, Hallelujah!”
5 Then a voice came from the throne, saying: “Praise our God,
all you his servants, you who fear him, both great and small!”
Revelation Page 99

6 Then I heard what sounded like a great multitude, like the
roar of rushing waters and like loud peals of thunder, shouting:
“Hallelujah! For our Lord God Almighty reigns.
7 Let us rejoice and be glad and give him glory! For the wedding
of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready.
8 Fine linen, bright and clean, was given her to wear.” (Fine
linen stands for the righteous acts of God’s holy people.)
19:9-10 - Instructions to John
9 Then the angel said to me, “Write this: Blessed are those who
are invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb!” And he added,
“These are the true words of God.”
10 At this I fell at his feet to worship him. But he said to me,
“Don’t do that! I am a fellow servant with you and with your
brothers and sisters who hold to the testimony of Jesus.
Worship God! For it is the Spirit of prophecy who bears
testimony to Jesus.”
19:11-21 - The Return of the King
11 I saw heaven standing open and there before me was a
white horse, whose rider is called Faithful and True. With justice
he judges and wages war.
12 His eyes are like blazing fire, and on his head are many
crowns. He has a name written on him that no one knows but
Revelation Page 100

crowns. He has a name written on him that no one knows but
he himself.
13 He is dressed in a robe dipped in blood, and his name is the
Word of God.
14 The armies of heaven were following him, riding on white
horses and dressed in fine linen, white and clean.
15 Coming out of his mouth is a sharp sword with which to
strike down the nations. “He will rule them with an iron
scepter.” He treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of
God Almighty.
16 On his robe and on his thigh he has this name written: KING
OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.
17 And I saw an angel standing in the sun, who cried in a loud
voice to all the birds flying in midair, “Come, gather together for
the great supper of God,
18 so that you may eat the flesh of kings, generals, and the
mighty, of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all people,
free and slave, great and small.”
19 Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their
armies gathered together to wage war against the rider on the
horse and his army.
20 But the beast was captured, and with it the false prophet
who had performed the signs on its behalf. With these signs he
had deluded those who had received the mark of the beast and
worshiped its image. The two of them were thrown alive into
Revelation Page 101

worshiped its image. The two of them were thrown alive into
the fiery lake of burning sulfur.
21 The rest were killed with the sword coming out of the mouth
of the rider on the horse, and all the birds gorged themselves on
their flesh.
The Takeaway:
At the end of the Great Tribulation, Jesus returns as the
righteous King of Kings and prepares to setup His Kingdom on
earth and bring an end to religious and commercial idolatry.
Revelation Page 102

Chapter 20
Tuesday, March 5, 2024 11:02 AM
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises. Creation will be free from the presence of, effects of,
and desire to sin forever.
Who wrote Revelation?
A man named John (Rev 1:4)
CORRECT MISTAKE
Between the two choices, the emperor and earthquake
evidence seems to indicate the later date.
When was Revelation written?
AD 95-96 (during Domitian’s persecution of the Church)
Who is Revelation talking about?
The Church is grafted into national Israel
When is Revelation talking about?
Ch1 (past), Ch2-3 (present), Ch4-22 (future), see Revelation
1:19
What is Revelation talking about?
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises.
What promises should we look for Revelation to fulfill?
The Eden Promise (Genesis 3:15)
Revelation Page 103

The Eden Promise (Genesis 3:15)
The Abrahamic Covenant (Genesis 12:1-3)
The Davidic Covenant (2 Samuel 7:14-16)
The New Covenant (Ezekiel 36:26-28, Luke 22:20, John 3:16-18)
Outline of Revelation:
Ch1 - Introduction
Ch2,3 - New Testament Churches
Ch4,5 - Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 - The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 - Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 - Eternal Kingdom
The Millennial Kingdom (differing views)
1: Amillennial (no millennium)
the 1,000 years is figurative.
Christ reigns in the church leading up to His return
1,000 is used figuratively in Scripture
2: Premillennial (a literal millennium)
The 1,000 years is literal
Christ's return is BEFORE His 1,000 reign
Multiple passages in the OT look for a future literal kingdom
1,000 years is mentioned in verses 2,3,4,5,6,7
3: Postmillennial (a figurative millennium)
The 1,000 years is figurative
The world must be prepared for Christ's reign BEFORE His
return
Revelation 20:1–15
Revelation Page 104

Revelation 20:1–15
1 And I saw an angel coming down out of heaven, having the
key to the Abyss and holding in his hand a great chain.
Having the key - Heaven holds the authority of the Abyss
The Abyss - a "bottomless" pit used as a holding cell for
demons before final judgment.
Great chain - a symbol of the authority to bind/capture
2 He seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the devil, or
Satan, and bound him for a thousand years.
The dragon - Satan / the Devil
Ancient serpent - referring to the Garden of Eden
Bound him - hence the chain
3 He threw him into the Abyss, and locked and sealed it over
him, to keep him from deceiving the nations anymore until the
thousand years were ended. After that, he must be set free for a
short time.
Locked and sealed - this will be 1,000 without Satan on
earth!
Keep him from - the purpose of the imprisonment is to
cease deception of "the nations" or humanity
Revelation Page 105

cease deception of "the nations" or humanity
After that - a reference to passing of time, subsequent
events
4 I saw thrones on which were seated those who had been given
authority to judge. And I saw the souls of those who had been
beheaded because of their testimony about Jesus and because
of the word of God. They had not worshiped the beast or its
image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their
hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ a thousand
years.
Two groups
Those who… judge
a: the 12 apostles
b: all believers in Christ
c: martyred believers
Whose who… beheaded - Christians martyred during
the Great Tribulation
5 (The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand
years were ended.) This is the first resurrection.
Rest of the dead - those who died, but were not martyred
during the Great Tribulation period
First resurrection - first, because it is not the rapture
Rapture is living mortal humans > glorified humans
Resurrection is non-material soul > glorified human
Revelation Page 106

Resurrection is non-material soul > glorified human
6 Blessed and holy are those who share in the first resurrection.
The second death has no power over them, but they will be
priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him for a
thousand years.
Blessed - to be fortunate
Those who share - the resurrection is a shared experience
They will be priests - they will serve God, His house, and
His people
7 When the thousand years are over, Satan will be released
from his prison
8 and will go out to deceive the nations in the four corners of
the earth—Gog and Magog—and to gather them for battle. In
number they are like the sand on the seashore.
1,000 years is over - hard to see this as figurative
Will be released - Satan will be released on the world again
Deceive the nations - this has always been the goal of the
enemy
Gather them for battle - from the beginning, Satan has
been the enemy of God, setting people apart from Him
Revelation Page 107

Sand on the seashore - the number who will stand against
Christ
9 They marched across the breadth of the earth and surrounded
the camp of God’s people, the city he loves. But fire came down
from heaven and devoured them.
Surrounded the city - Jerusalem, Jesus's capital city
Fire came down - like Elijah in the OT
10 And the devil, who deceived them, was thrown into the lake
of burning sulfur, where the beast and the false prophet had
been thrown. They will be tormented day and night for ever and
ever.
Devil… was thrown - this is when the devil actually goes to
Hell
11 Then I saw a great white throne and him who was seated on
it. The earth and the heavens fled from his presence, and there
was no place for them.
Great White Throne - the seat & symbol of God's sovereign
authority
Two Final Judgments:
1: The Great White Throne Judgment - for unbelievers, of
sin
Revelation Page 108

sin
2: The "Bema" Judgment - for believers, of service
12 And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the
throne, and books were opened. Another book was opened,
which is the book of life. The dead were judged according to
what they had done as recorded in the books.
The books - the book which records the actions of our life
Book of life - those who have been forgiven in Christ
What they had done - our sin must be accounted for, by
Christ's death, or by our own.
13 The sea gave up the dead that were in it, and death and
Hades gave up the dead that were in them, and each person
was judged according to what they had done.
14 Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. The
lake of fire is the second death.
15 Anyone whose name was not found written in the book of
life was thrown into the lake of fire.
Book of Life (two views)
1: The names of all who have been pre-selected by God
2: The names of all who have trusted in Christ
The Takeaway:
After the Great Tribulation, Jesus will reign on earth for 1,000
Revelation Page 109

After the Great Tribulation, Jesus will reign on earth for 1,000
years. Then the world will rebel one last time, and then final
judgments. Non-believers will be judged by their sin, believers
by their service to Christ.
Revelation Page 110

Chapters 21-22
Monday, March 11, 2024 11:09 AM
Key Thought:
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises. Creation will be free from the presence of, effects of,
and desire to sin forever.
Who wrote Revelation?
A man named John (Rev 1:4)
CORRECT MISTAKE
Between the two choices, the emperor and earthquake
evidence seems to indicate the later date.
When was Revelation written?
AD 95-96 (during Domitian’s persecution of the Church)
Who is Revelation talking about?
The Church is grafted into national Israel
When is Revelation talking about?
Ch1 (past), Ch2-3 (present), Ch4-22 (future), see Revelation
1:19
What is Revelation talking about?
Revelation is about the final fulfilment of God's outstanding
promises.
What promises should we look for Revelation to fulfill?
The Eden Promise (Genesis 3:15)
Revelation Page 111

The Eden Promise (Genesis 3:15)
The Abrahamic Covenant (Genesis 12:1-3)
The Davidic Covenant (2 Samuel 7:14-16)
The New Covenant (Ezekiel 36:26-28, Luke 22:20, John 3:16-18)
Outline of Revelation:
Ch1 - Introduction
Ch2,3 - New Testament Churches
Ch4,5 - Throne Room of God
Ch6-18 - The Great Tribulation
Ch19,20 - Millennial Kingdom
Ch21,22 - Eternal Kingdom
Outline of Revelation 21-22
21:1-22:5 - The Eternal Kingdom
21:1-7 - The reality of the Kingdom
21:8 - Those excluded from the Kingdom
21:9-27 - The beauty of the Kingdom
22:6-21 - Final words
22:6-11 - Assurance from John
22:12-16 - Assurance from Jesus
22:17 - Invitation to Eternal Life
22:18-19 - Warning against tampering
22:20-21 - The eminent return of Christ
Revelation 21:1–22:21
[The Reality of the Kingdom]
1 Then I saw “a new heaven and a new earth,” for the first
heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no
longer any sea.
Revelation Page 112

longer any sea.
NEW heavens/earth - emphasis on "better quality"
No longer any sea - represents the presence of enemies
Beast, gentile nations, demonic
locusts
2 I saw the Holy City, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of
heaven from God, prepared as a bride beautifully dressed for
her husband.
Coming down - refers to cause or origin, not floating city.
Description in next section describes walls, gates, and
foundations.
3 And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, “Look! God’s
dwelling place is now among the people, and he will dwell
with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with
them and be their God.
This, in my opinion, is the KEY to understanding the whole
story of the Bible. God is working to fulfill or restore our
relationship to Him better than it was in Eden!
4 ‘He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more
death’ or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things
has passed away.”
No more death, crying, pain - The new creation is where
this promise is realized.
5 He who was seated on the throne said, “I am making
everything new!” Then he said, “Write this down, for these
Revelation Page 113

everything new!” Then he said, “Write this down, for these
words are trustworthy and true.”
I am making - this is a creative act of God's power
Making everything new - this will be a creation made new
by God
6 He said to me: “It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the
Beginning and the End. To the thirsty I will give water without
cost from the spring of the water of life.
Alpha/Omega - there is nothing outside of God, He is all
powerful, all knowing
Water of life - the "water" Jesus spoke of in John 4
7 Those who are victorious will inherit all this, and I will be their
God and they will be my children.
Those who are victorious - who remain faithful in spite of
the torment and persecution faced at the time
[Those Excluded from the Kingdom]
8 But the cowardly, the unbelieving, the vile, the murderers, the
sexually immoral, those who practice magic arts, the idolaters
and all liars—they will be consigned to the fiery lake of burning
sulfur. This is the second death.”
But the - several lists like this exist in the NT. These will not
inherit the Kingdom, but judgement
Revelation Page 114

The second death - is Hell.
[The Beauty of the Kingdom]
9 One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the
seven last plagues came and said to me, “Come, I will show you
the bride, the wife of the Lamb.”
Show you - John is given another vision
10 And he carried me away in the Spirit to a mountain great
and high, and showed me the Holy City, Jerusalem, coming
down out of heaven from God.
11 It shone with the glory of God, and its brilliance was like that
of a very precious jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal.
12 It had a great, high wall with twelve gates, and with twelve
angels at the gates. On the gates were written the names of the
twelve tribes of Israel.
Tribes of Israel - Israel hasn't lost its distinction
13 There were three gates on the east, three on the north, three
on the south and three on the west.
14 The wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them
were the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
Apostles of the Lamb - either the actual 12, or representing
the Church, also a distinct entity from national Israel
Revelation Page 115

the Church, also a distinct entity from national Israel
While remaining distinct, Israel and the Church now form
one complete people of God
Skip to verse 27
15 The angel who talked with me had a measuring rod of gold
to measure the city, its gates and its walls.
16 The city was laid out like a square, as long as it was wide. He
measured the city with the rod and found it to be 12,000 stadia
in length, and as wide and high as it is long.
17 The angel measured the wall using human measurement,
and it was 144 cubits thick.
18 The wall was made of jasper, and the city of pure gold, as
pure as glass.
19 The foundations of the city walls were decorated with every
kind of precious stone. The first foundation was jasper, the
second sapphire, the third agate, the fourth emerald,
20 the fifth onyx, the sixth ruby, the seventh chrysolite, the
eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth turquoise, the eleventh
jacinth, and the twelfth amethyst.
21 The twelve gates were twelve pearls, each gate made of a
single pearl. The great street of the city was of gold, as pure as
transparent glass.
22 I did not see a temple in the city, because the Lord God
Revelation Page 116

22 I did not see a temple in the city, because the Lord God
Almighty and the Lamb are its temple.
23 The city does not need the sun or the moon to shine on it, for
the glory of God gives it light, and the Lamb is its lamp.
24 The nations will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth
will bring their splendor into it.
25 On no day will its gates ever be shut, for there will be no
night there.
26 The glory and honor of the nations will be brought into it.
27 Nothing impure will ever enter it, nor will anyone who does
what is shameful or deceitful, but only those whose names are
written in the Lamb’s book of life.
Lamb's book of life - this will be a place for the redeemed
only to live in right relationship with God
[Chapter 22]
1 Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, as
clear as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb
Water of life… from God - this NEW state will be fueled
with eternal life from God Himself
2 down the middle of the great street of the city. On each side
of the river stood the tree of life, bearing twelve crops of fruit,
yielding its fruit every month. And the leaves of the tree are for
the healing of the nations.
Revelation Page 117

the healing of the nations.
Tree of life - the same kind of tree as in Eden, not
necessarily the same exact tree, as this is a new creation
3 No longer will there be any curse. The throne of God and of
the Lamb will be in the city, and his servants will serve him.
4 They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.
See his face - as in Eden, walking with God
5 There will be no more night. They will not need the light of a
lamp or the light of the sun, for the Lord God will give them
light. And they will reign for ever and ever.
[Assurance from John]
6 The angel said to me, “These words are trustworthy and true.
The Lord, the God who inspires the prophets, sent his angel to
show his servants the things that must soon take place.”
Trustworthy & true - they are reliable and out reality
7 “Look, I am coming soon! Blessed is the one who keeps the
words of the prophecy written in this scroll.”
8 I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And
when I had heard and seen them, I fell down to worship at the
feet of the angel who had been showing them to me.
Revelation Page 118

Heard and saw - John is reassuring the readers of the
truthfulness of what he is writing. He is the witness
testifying to the truthfulness of what he has seen and
heard.
9 But he said to me, “Don’t do that! I am a fellow servant with
you and with your fellow prophets and with all who keep the
words of this scroll. Worship God!”
10 Then he told me, “Do not seal up the words of the prophecy
of this scroll, because the time is near.
11 Let the one who does wrong continue to do wrong; let the
vile person continue to be vile; let the one who does right
continue to do right; and let the holy person continue to be
holy.”
[Assurance from Jesus]
12 “Look, I am coming soon! My reward is with me, and I will
give to each person according to what they have done.
I am coming soon! - the words of Jesus Himself
13 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the
Beginning and the End.
14 “Blessed are those who wash their robes, that they may have
the right to the tree of life and may go through the gates into
the city.
Revelation Page 119

15 Outside are the dogs, those who practice magic arts, the
sexually immoral, the murderers, the idolaters and everyone
who loves and practices falsehood.
16 “I, Jesus, have sent my angel to give you this testimony for
the churches. I am the Root and the Offspring of David, and the
bright Morning Star.”
[ Invitation to Eternal Life ]
17 The Spirit and the bride say, “Come!” And let the one who
hears say, “Come!” Let the one who is thirsty come; and let the
one who wishes take the free gift of the water of life.
[Warning against tampering ]
18 I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this
scroll: If anyone adds anything to them, God will add to that
person the plagues described in this scroll.
19 And if anyone takes words away from this scroll of prophecy,
God will take away from that person any share in the tree of life
and in the Holy City, which are described in this scroll.
[The Eminent Return of Christ]
20 He who testifies to these things says, “Yes, I am coming
soon.” Amen. Come, Lord Jesus.
Revelation Page 120

21 The grace of the Lord Jesus be with God’s people. Amen.
The Takeaway:
The big story of the Bible ends with Jesus returning to restore
His people to relationship with Him and dwell with them in a
new creation.
Revelation Page 121