Observation W verse Additional notes
did God reject His people what Rom 11:1 picking up on the imagery of the last chapter, God is still holding His hands out for His people, He has not rejected them
by no means! what Rom 11:1 this is an emphatic declaration, God has not rejected Isreal, but rather has worked through their unbelief as he's about to show
I am an Israelite myself what Rom 11:1 if God had rejected all Israel, Paul would not be an apostle! Neither would any of the other apostles.
whom he foreknew what Rom 11:2 Paul reminds the Roman church that inspite of the Jews rejection of Jesus, they are not forgotten Paul then uses an example
from the story of the prophet Elijah to make the point
"I am the only one left" who Rom 11:3 In this story, Elijah believes He is the only prophet left who is true to God, but he is mistaken. He doesn't know there are others
I have reserved for myself who Rom 11:4 God knew the hearts and intentions of the 7,000 other faithful Jews. Just because Elijah in his human understanding did not
knew these others faithful Jews existed did not exclude God from knowing them.
So too… what Rom 11:5 Paul now makes an argument from analogy. Just as when Elijah thought he was the only faithful one left and was wrong…
chosen by grace what Rom 11:5 as then, God has "chosen" a faithful remnant to be true to Him in spite of the widerspread rejection of Christ by Isreal
the "chosen" verb here acts as the functional opposite of the "rejection" of verse one. It should be noted, that this gracious
"choosing" is speaking specifically of the Jewish people, not of Gentile Christianity as they are mentioned next.
if by grace / not by works what Rom 11:6 if God's gracious choosing of the Jews is done by His hand, then it is not in any way in response to their "works"
no longer grace what Rom 11:6 IF, God's choosing of the Jews were based on their works, then the idea of grace would not be true, they are mutually exclusive
people of Israel who Rom 11:7 when Paul uses this term here, he is speaking of the entire nation of Israel
elect among them who Rom 11:7 Paul limits the scope to chose who have been "chosen" within Israel, they are the true faithful
beyond recovery? what Rom 11:11 Paul then follows up with a reponse to an expected question, "Did Isreal fall so far from God they are doomed forever?"
Not at all! what Rom 11:11 again, we see Paul assuring that Israel's present rejection of the Messiah will not lead to the ultimate rejection forever
because of their transgression what Rom 11:11 Israel's rejection of their Messiah was due to their hardness of heart, but it does NOT lead to their ultimate damnation, rather
Israel's rejection leads directly to Gentile salvation!
to make Israel envious what Rom 11:11 not only did God use Israel's rejection to save the Gentile, but then He will use the Gentiles to draw back Israel herself
transgressions to riches what Rom 11:12 If Isreal's rejection of Jesus brought the riches of salvation to the world, how much more will their return to Christ bring us
apostle to the Gentiles what Rom 11:13 Paul freely admits his calling is to be an apostle to the Gentiles
in the hope… my own people who Rom 11:14 Paul's minsitry to the Gentiles also has a Jewish goal, to draw more Jews to recognize and submit to their Savior
rejection … acceptance what Rom 11:15 Paul repeats the thought of verse 12, if Israel's rejection brought life, what greater blessing with their acceptance bring
firstfruits… holy what Rom 11:16 here, Paul uses an analogy that would be very familiar to his Jewish audience, the concept of giving to God the first fruits
this was in essence declaring the whole harvest holy by giving to the Lord the first (and best) portion
root… branches what Rom 11:16 Paul now transitions from harvest and dough to roots and branches, we must be clear on which group is which, the roots are
the Jewish Christians, the branches are the Gentile ones
wild olive shoot who Rom 11:17 the "wild shoot" represents the Gentile Christians who have now become a part of the Body of Christ, but only because the
opportunity was created by the rejection of the Messiah by Israel
grafted in what Rom 11:17 the imagery is that the "wild" shoot is now a connected part of the whole
nourshing sap from the root what Rom 11:17 the Gentiles have received salvation and the Holy Spirit, both of which came from the Jews first (see John 4:22)
consider yourself superior what Rom 11:18 the pastoral purpose of the book of Romans looms large here as the Gentiles are warned not to consider themselves greater
than their Jewish brothers because of their relationship to them
do not support the roots what Rom 11:18 the Gentile Christians have salvation and the Spirit through the Jews, not inspite of them, this would be a completely different
bush, not one in which the "wild" was grafted into the original
so I could be grafted in what Rom 11:19 the Gentile perspective that Jewish rejection was done FOR the Gentiles or with the Gentiles in mind is just wrong. God worked
through Israel's rejection to save Gentiles, He did not cause Israel's rejection BECAUSE of Gentiles .
because of unbelief what Rom 11:20 the "branches" that were broken off (Jewish rejection) was because of their own unbelief, nothing more
you stand by faith what Rom 11:20 the Gentile Christians stand in relationship with God by faith, nothing more
don't be arrogant… tremble what Rom 11:20 a stern warning NOT to be too proud in one's faith, God's covenant with the Jews still stands
did not spare what Rom 11:21 God allowed the unbelief of His own covenant people to cause his temporary rejection, why would we Gentiles think He would
treat us any different?