Observation W verse Additional notes
what then shall we say what Rom 8:31 in reponse to the previous statement about God's working out His will in the lives of men, Paul leads his audience
if God is for us who Rom 8:31 remember, regardless of which salvation system one chooses to adhere, everyone agrees there will be people lost to hell
the "IF" here will only apply to the saved or elect. If God is for those He chose, called, justified, and glorified
who can be against us what Rom 8:31 the question is not whether opposition will be had, the obvious answer is yes. Remember the first century was filled with
violent persecution of Christians under the Roman empire. However, when the believer truly sees the oppositon in light of
God's divine and sovereign power, than the opposition pales in comparrison to the greatness and God Himself
did not spare His own Son what Rom 8:32 the sending of Christ by God the Father is a powerful example of the lengths God will go to (a) bring about his plan and
(b) illustrate His love and compassion to us, His wayward human creation
gave Him up for us all what Rom 8:32 the substituion of Christ for the sin of the world is a major point of Christian doctrine that can not be overlooked. Instead of
requiring the payment and penalty of sin from us (which we could not pay ourselves) God offers payment Himself.
how will he not graciously give what Rom 8:32 if God is so gracious as to not spare His own Son, how will He not also be gracious enough to bless those same children
who will bring any charge who Rom 8:33 If God is both the judge and Savior of humanity, and the audience of the letter is already justified, than who is left of any
higher authority to judge someone who has been chosen by God? It is a rheotorical question as there is no one higher
It is God who justifies what Rom 8:33 Again, Paul reminds his audience it is God who justifies or declares sinners "guilty, not guilty" of sin
who then… condemns what Rom 8:34 in a second rhetorical question, Paul now asks his audience who is left to condemn is God has justified?
No one who Rom 8:34 there is no one of higher authority than God, thus there is no one who can "outrank" or "veto" God's authority
Christ Jesus who died what Rom 8:34 here we have very early evidence that Christianity is based on the death and resurrection of Jesus. Competing hypothesis
or theories which attempt to explain away these two events are not plausible in light of early Christian teaching
raised to life what Rom 8:34 the greatest message of the Christan Gospel is the resurrection. Jesus was raised to LIFE, no longer dead, but alive again
this is one of the details that makes Christianity wholely unique, the historical resurrection is the backbone of the faith
is at the right hand of God where Rom 8:35 because of the reality of the resurrection, believers are assured not only of their own future resurrection, but also that
Jesus Himself, as the One True High Priest, also ministers for us before God the Father
Who shall separate us who Rom 8:35 If there is no one "higher" than God, and no one who can "condemn" us before God, the logical outcome is that we can
never be separated from the love of God in Christ
Shall trouble, hardship… what Rom 8:35 Paul lists very real and painful earthly difficulties faced by believers both then and today. He does not deny the reality of
these hardships, but rather casts them in light of the inifite gift of our inseperability from the love of God. In this life, we may
experience these hardships, but we should hold to the same attitude, that they are nothing compared to God's everlasting love
OT Quote: Psalm 44:22 what Rom 8:36 the quote here is from a Psalm that is written from a place of persecution. The Psalmist begins by remembering the great
things God had done which we passed down from previous generations. Because of these great things, the Psalmists
cries out to God for deliverance from the current trial. The closing line of the Psalm is thematically aligned with Paul's
argument in view here, "rescue us because of Your unfailing love" Psalm 44:26b
in all these things what Rom 8:37 Paul gives the scope of Christian "conquer-ing" here, seen as ALL things. Even in the midst of trial, Christians are conquerors
through Him who Rom 8:37 Christians are not conquerors in and of themselves. We are only given the status through Christ, the Savior and Victor
who loved us what Rom 8:37 it is the love of God which motivated His substitution and thus our victory, we did not create it nor can we control it
For I am convinced what Rom 8:38 Paul now speaks from his own personal persepctive about a theological point He is has become convinced of. The Greek word
used here carries the connotation of being persuaded to a belief or to yield to a belief one is introduced to
Separate us from the love of Godwhat Rom 8:38-39 Paul ends this chapter with a statement that is powerful as it is poetic, this is a sure memory verse for times of trial
in Christ Jesus our Lord what Rom 8:39 the terms of God's "love" is not up for interpretation or debate. The love for which we can never be separated is that found
solely in Chirst. It is God's love, demonstrated and propogated in Christ that we are inseperable from. We are not free to
create or manipulate our own idea of God or salvation to fit this model or message