Observation W verse Additional notes
commend to you what Rom 16:1 the verb used here by Paul is almost universally translated "commend" and means that he speaks favorably of this person
sister Phoebe who Rom 16:1 the term "sister" implies that she is a Christian woman. It is also suggested, as the Roman church is asked to "receive her in
the Lord" that she may well have been the carrier of the letter to the church at Rome.
a deacon what Rom 16:1 some translations have Phoebe listed as merly a "servant" the actual Greek word used by Paul is 'diakonos' and is the
same as the later mentioned servant leader position of deacon. This means that Phoebe was considered a 'deaconess' of the
church at Cenchreae. She may have been selected specifically to carry this letter to the Romans. While some will make the
distinction that Phoebe was a servant and not an official deacon, the text does not support this, it is an inference. Regardless
of which view one takes as to Phoebe's role, it is clear she was a named servant leader from her church commended by Paul
Cenchreae where Rom 16:1 this is a village seaport near east of the major city of Corinth
receive her in the Lord what Rom 16:2 Paul's request to the Romans is to 'receive' the instruction here is to receive her presence in a welcoming manner
worthy of His people what Rom 16:2 the ancient near eastern culture considered the reception given by a single individual to be a reflection of the group as a whole
give her any help what Rom 16:2 the instruction for help gives more credence to the notion that Phoebe was indeed the letter carrier as it pre-supposes her
presence with the Roman Christians in order to be able to receive help from them
the benefactor of many what Rom 16:2 the word Paul uses here is 'prostasis' and can be translated: benefactor, helping, patron, or succurour. The primary meaning
of the word is "a patroness or protectess" the intended meaning is not completely clear. Phoebe is either the person who has
provided financially for Paul and others, protected Paul and others, or both. Keeping in mind she is also a leader and likely
deaconess at the church in Cenchreae it is easy to see how this dual role could have been in operation. The area of Corinth was
a wealthy area and a women of means and leadership would have been a superb choice to carry the letter to the Romans
Priscilla and Aquilla who Rom 16:3-4 a married couple who, like Paul, were tent makers and also facilitated a church in their own house. They are mentioned in
Acts and also in several of Paul's letters
Epenetus who Rom 16:5 is apparently the first convert to Christ in Asia, this is the only mention of this person in the Bible
Mary who Rom 16:6 this Mary is not identified in any way with any other Mary in the Bible, she is however likely a servant leader in the Church
Andronicus & Junia who Rom 16:7 these two are not mentioned elsewhere in Scriptures. From this verse we can know they were Jews, had been converts to
Christianity longer than Paul, and had been imprisoned with Paul
among the apostles what Rom 16:7 the word translated 'among' may also be rightly translated 'esteemed by' thus this is not a direct reference to either being an
apostle in the narrow scope, as in the original twelve and the apostle Paul. However, the broader definition of the word
apostolos' is anyone who is "sent out" to do the work of the Gospel. Barnabas, Silas, and Timothy would all qualify as
"sent ones" in the broad definition while not being considered "called Apostles" in the narrow definition. It is best to see
these two here in the same light.
list of names who Rom 16:8-16 the list of names mentioned by Paul have no further details other than the ones shared here. This gives us a good reminder
that while the Scriptures took place in historical time, they did not record every detail of every person from that time. The
Holy Spirit guided the recording of Scripture to give bring man to the knowledge of salvation in Christ.
I urge you what Rom 16:17 Paul makes an appeal or request to the Roman Christians
watch out for what Rom 16:7 the phrase used here means virtually the same thing it does in English today. To "look out" or "watch out" for someone is not
only to be aware of their presence, but to be concerned about their actions as well
- those who cause division what Rom 16:17 causing division is the act of bringing a topic or situation to bear that strikes against the unity Paul has been writing about
- put obstacles in your way what Rom 16:7 obstacles by their nature inhibit the intended motion and activity. These people were trying to thwart the Church's mission
contrary to the teaching what Rom 16:17 for Paul, the only correct measure of right and wrong was in line with teaching of the Church, now we have this same info
in the form of the written Word of God. We must never forget the Scriptures alone are the rule for law and life as a Christian
keep away from them what Rom 16:17 the "them" in this verse is those who were teaching or leading "contrary to the teaching" of the Apostles, by defintion this makes
these people heretics for teaching contrary to the Apostles
not serving the Lord what Rom 16:18 Paul makes a clear designation about those who teach contrary to the Apostles and create division, they are teaching not for
the Lord, but for their own "appetites" or personal interests.
smooth talk… deceive what Rom 16:18 the "them" mentioned here are good public speakers and use their words to deceive those who are innocent or unknowing
wise/innocent, good/evil what Rom 16:19 Paul's desire is for the Roman Christians to be well versed in understanding and application of "good" but the exact opposite
of any and all things that could be considered evil
God of peace what Rom 16:20 this does not imply that God is always peaceful, but rather that Gods purpose is always to bring peace through the defeat
of sin and sin's agenda for mankind
crush Satan what Rom 16:20 the name Satan comes from the Greek word used here 'satanas' which means adversary or one who opposes God
grace…. Be with you what Rom 16:20 the grace of God is to wait faithfully and patiently while we in the Church Age wait for this crushing bow took place.
Timothy who Rom 16:21 the third generation Christian who traveled with Paul and is mentioned coming the Lord in Acts 16:1
Lucius, Jason, Sosipater who Rom 16:21 additional members of the early Church who likely travelled with or assisted Paul in his ministry.
Tertius who Rom 16:22 the actual individaul who penned the letter to the Romans, Paul's secretary
Gaius who Rom 16:23 one of the few people Paul mentions that he baptized himself (1 Cor 1:14)
Erastus and Quartus who Rom 16:23 another two Christians who find their home's and jobs in Corinth. It is likely that Paul wrote some or all of this letter there
now what Rom 16:25 Paul begins his final salauation
Benediction what Rom 16:25-27Paul's closing thought here is laiden with the theology and imagery of the letter as a whole, he as shared this theology
as well as person insights. He himself would not have been there when the letter was delivered or read. So these words
are being shared by a fellow worker of Paul