Observation W verse Additional notes
what then say we say? what Rom 4:1 Paul is contining the same argument from the previous chapter. He now uses Abraham as the "test case" for faith
Abraham who Rom 4:1 the father of the Hebrews, first patriarch, and the one chosen by God to receive His covnenant (Gen 12)
- our forefather who Rom 4:1 referring to Abraham as "our forefather" held special significance to the Jewish Christians who saw themselves as such
- according to the flesh what Rom 4:1 Paul is clear to highlight the Jews considered Abraham their father because of their earthly descendantcy
- IF in fact what Rom 4:1 the argument here is that IF Abraham was justified by works, he wasn't, but this is the argument Paul is making
- something to boast about what Rom 4:3 this links the words here to the presentation at the end of ch 2, Paul reminds them again that there is nothing left in the
human arena in order to brag about. IF Abraham had anything, HE would have. But…
Scripture say what Rom 4:3 Paul appeals to the authority of Scripture, in this case the Hebrew Bible or Christian Old Testament
- Abraham believed what Rom 4:3 one of the most powerful verses for understanding the real nature of salvation. It was because of Abraham's BELIEF not his
carrying of the symbol of the coveant that lead to his salvation. This also shows us that salvation by faith can and did
happen in the Old Testament. If Abraham was saved "by faith" anyone else could have been as well
- credited to him what Rom 4:3 the term "credited" here is an accounting term, it literally means to 'reckon, account, calculate, count over, etc' It means
the belief that Abraham "gave" to God was "recorded" as righteousness on the account of Abraham's life
- as rigtheounsess what Rom 4:3 the "righteousness" here is the state of being acceptable to God. This "acceptable-ness" was accounted to Abraham
Now, the one who works who Rom 4:4 Paul is going to expound on the analogy of working / earning with this example of a person who does a job
- wages are not credited / gift what Rom 4:4 because the person worked, the wages are not given as a gift that is "accredited" to the account of the workman
- as an obligation what Rom 4:4 the workman in Paul's analogy is not paid because of grace, he is paid because he is owed it. This is works-based salvation
those who believe they can work their way to rigtheousness are ultimately trying to be "owed" a righteous account from God
however what Rom 4:5 Paul will now present the opposite person from the workman who is paid because he is owed it
the one who does not work who Rom 4:5 this person has done no "work" to earn their righteous declaration.
- trusts God what Rom 4:5 this in an important part of this argument. Merely "not working" is not enough to guarantee salvation. This is why the
trusting God component of this second person is so important. If this were not here, we would be left with universalism
- who justifies the ungodly what Rom 4:5 it is God and only God who can justify someone, because HE is the one to whom the debt of sin must be paid
faith is… righteousness what Rom 4:5 it is by faith, and only by faith, that one's account with the Lord is creditted as righteounsness. No work can earn it.
David says the same thing who Rom 4:6-8 Paul now appeals to another larger than life Old Testament character to make his point, King David. Paul quote here from
Psalm 32:1-2 in which David also establishes salvation by faith in the Old Testament. David's quote focuses on the
state of "blessed-ness" that it is for those who the Lord no longer holds their sin against them, aka accounted as righteous
circumcised / uncircumcised who Rom 4:9 Paul then takes the theological understanding and now applies it to the pastoral purpose. Is the blessing of righteouness
by faith only going to apply to Jews? If one says "yes" to this, then salvation by faith can not also apply to Gentiles.
under what circumstances what Rom 4:10 Paul brings out a small point that speaks so loudly to the pastoral purpose of this book. Did Abraham receive credit as
being rigtheous before or after the sign of circumcision? This brings into full focus the difference between the Jewish
and Gentile Christians at the Church at Rome at the time of the letter.
but before! what Rom 4:10 because Abraham received the credit of righteousness by faith BEFORE the sign of circumcision, the sign itself can not be Q
the method or mode in which righteousness was applied to Abraham as it was received AFTER the righteousness itself
while… still uncircumcised what Rom 4:11 the sign of cicumcision was received by Abraham while he was still uncircumcised. This, would have been a large challenge
to the Jewish Christians who for generations had trusted in their covnential status as sign holders.
father… believe… uncircumcisedwhat Rom 4:11 Paul now illustrates that because Abraham believed while he was still uncircumcised, he is the "father" of all Gentile believers
father… believe… circumcised what Rom 4:12 Abraham is also the father of those who believe AND ARE circumcised. Because Abrham was both.
father, father argument by presenting Abraham as the "father" of both the Gentile and Jewish believers, the pastoral purpose of the book shines
through the text as Paul is uniting the different sides of the church with the same faith that their ancestor Abraham had