Observation W verse Additional notes
accept the one who Rom 14:1 on the heels of the closing thought of the previous chatper (to cloth one's self in Christ) Paul now gives a correction to
the Roman Chrisitans intent on restoring their unity. The 'receive' or 'accept' verb speaks to having relationship with
- whose faith is weak what Rom 14:1 the simple reality is we all have different levels of faith. Some saints have been walking with Christ for years and have put
in the time and discipline to grow in their faith, others are brand new and learning as they go, this is not a statement about
"worth" as a disciple, just a reality of the process of growing in faith. The 'weak' brother in view here is the one who can
not let go of the dietary food laws of the Old Testament, still trusting they hold sway in the area of holiness.
without quarreling what Rom 14:1 Paul recognizes the fact that disputes and quarells within the Body of Christ are real. Unity is not uniformity.
- over disputable matters what Rom 14:1 the term "disputable matters" illustrates for us that reality that not all matters within faith require full unity. There is room
for diversity within the unity of the body of Christ.
one persons faith who Rom 14:2 Paul moves from the general to the specific case of a particular dispute over the kinds of food that should be eaten
allows them to eat anything what Rom 14:2 this is the stronger believer, the one who is not drawn in or phased by existing food laws claiming to affect righteosness
faith is weak… eats vegetables what Rom 14:2 the weaker believer is 'weak' because of still being committed to food laws and traditions imported from Judaism
must not treat with contempt what Rom 14:3 here, Paul directs the Gentile or freed Jewish believer NOT to dispise to think less of the 'weaker' brother because of their
choice to adhere to the food laws, while Paul is clearly calling this weaker, it is not to be considered lesser
does not eat… must not judge what Rom 14:3 next, Paul directs the likely Jewish believers who are still committed to the dietary food laws to not think they are more
righteous or holy because they abstain from the marketplace food that had been sacrificed to idols
who are you who Rom 14:4 this question is posed to both sides of the Roman Church
- judge someone else's servantwhat Rom 14:4 because we are each a servant of the same king, it is not our place to judge the freedom or restrictions other believers
choose to live by.
to their own master who Rom 14:4 we are all servants of one master, God Himself
- servants stand or fall what Rom 14:4 we are all judged according to God's standards, not in comparison to one another. God's vote is the only one that counts
one person who Rom 14:5 Paul begins a second example of the division and judgment coming between Christians about worship
one day more sacred when Rom 14:5 the 'weaker' brother in view her could be Jewish or Gentile. The weaker Jewish brother still feels bound to the Sabbath
and the OT Laws that come with. The weaker Gentile believer may be distancing himself from the kinds of pagan celebrations
that he/she had participated in in the past, these likely included sinful practices.
be fully convinced… own mind what Rom 14:5 the final expectation for all believers, Jew & Gentile, weak & strong, is to be fully true with no hypocrisy in one's heart
one day as special… to the Lord what Rom 14:6 those Jewish believers who maintained keeping the Sabbath did so to honor and worship the Lord
eats meat… to the Lord what Rom 14:6 the Jewish or Gentile believer who eats the meat sold from the pagan sacrifices does so "to the Lord" by giving thanks for it
whoever abstains… to the Lord what Rom 14:6 the Jewish believers who choose to abstain from the meat also do so "to the Lord" as an act of worship
live/die… we belong what Rom 14:6 when believers live for the Lord, Christ is Lord of their lives. When we die and go to the Lord, Christ is Lord over death
when why do you judge what Rom 14:7-10 if Christ is Lord over both the living and dead, why do individual believers "promote" themselves to the Lord position
in order to judge someone else. We are all the Lord's servants, not one anothers (v4)
all stand… God's judgment what Rom 14:10-11we do not have the authority to judge one another because we are not the judge, God Himself is
we will each give an account what Rom 14:12 the truth for each of us is that we will each give an account of our lives to God in the end, we don't owe it to each other
therefore what Rom 14:13 because of the fact that we are God's sevants and we have no right to judge one another… Paul will make a conclusion
stop passing judgment what Rom 14:13 we must STOP passing judgment on one another. The word "judgment" here means to: have an opinion, approve of,
determine, separate, etc. this is an all-encompassing term for anything that places one person "over" another