Observation W verse Additional notes
therefore what Rom 5:12 Paul connects the point he is about to make to the previous section of the chapter, because of that… this
sin entered through one man who Rom 5:12 this is why Adam is referred to as the "federal head" because through his authority and position, sin entered the world (Gen 3)
death through sin what Rom 5:12 the punishment for sin has always been death, beginning in Genesis 3:21
all people sinned what Rom 5:12 this is called "original sin" or "inherited sin" all of humanity now has a "sin nature" because of Adam's sin. There is another
sense in which all of humanity was held in the loins of Adam, thus the consequences of sin are passed seminally to all of us
sin was in the world what Rom 5:13 sin did not need the law to be "in the world", we see in the punishment of the Great Flood, God's judgment on sin pre-Law
- not charged to accounts what Rom 5:13 sin was not enumerated or listed befor the Law, because the Law had not yet been given in order to define the specific
transgressions. Sin was merely all encompassing and worthy of destruction. This does NOT mean that all people who lived
between Adam and Moses were without sin.
nevertheless death reigned what Rom 5:14 even without specific commands to violate, humanity was still sinful and death reigned over them because of it
breaking a command what Rom 5:14 Adam sinned by breaking a direct command of God. The people who lived between Adam and Moses sinned because it was
the totality of their nature, not necessarily because they had a rule or law to break intentionally
pattern of one to come who Rom 5:14 Adam and the prototpe human is a pattersn of Christ who will be the prototype resurrected human in the new life to come
gift is not like the tresspass what Rom 5:15 there is a fundamental difference betweent he trespass of Adam and the grace of Christ,
Adams sin directly affects us as mortals, Jesus grace is applied to us only through faith, not automatically
judgment followed sin what Rom 5:16 God, in His justice, could not allow the transgression of sin to go unpunished,
- brought condemnation what Rom 5:16 the condemnation is to be "damned" or destined for death because of the required penalty of sin
gift brought justification what Rom 5:16 God's gift of grace brought us the "guilty, not guilty" verdict by paying for the sins we could not pay on our own
death one man < life one man what Rom 5:17 Paul illustrates the "greater than" value of God's grace to overcome the death that came through Adam
just as one… what Rom 5:18 Paul connects the two aspects inextricably. If we can accept that anyone can be saved through Christ, we must accept that
all are condemned through Adam. The two actions are opposite, but not equals. Christ remains greater
disobedience / obedience what Rom 5:19 Paul also makes it clear that Jesus's obedience to the Father overcomes Adam's disobedience to Him.
Law … tresspass increased what Rom 5:20 because of the giving of the Law, the specificity in which someone could sin increased
grace increased what Rom 5:20 just incase someone might attempt to argue that the increase of sin may at some point overtake grace, Paul is sure to point
out that grace increased "all the more" over the presence of sin because of the Law
grace might reign what Rom 5:21 God's grace "reigns" over sin and death as the only source of life to overcome the penalty of death due to all humanity
eternal life through Jesus who Rom 5:21 Jesus is the only source through which eternal life can be procured. He is the only way, truth, and life.
Q