Observation W verse Additional notes
Therefore what Rom 14:13 taking the first twelve verses as a pretext, the "therefore" now builds on the distinction between weaker/stronger brothers
stop passing judgment what Rom 14:13 because the weaker is wrong for judging the stronger, and the stronger is wrong for being irritated by the weaker, BOTH
are required to cease the judgment of the other. Both are in a sense, "guilty" of this dichotomy and must obey
I am convinced who Rom 14:14 Paul speaks here in the first person perspective of his view of the issue
fully… in the Lord what Rom 14:14 Paul not only speaks of his own opinion, but also that his opinion is in line with the Lord's discernment on the issue
nothing is unclean what Rom 14:14 this is a big statement for a former Hebrew Pharisee to claim for himself. Paul is speaking to the Jewish believers here
reminding them that nothing (in Christ) in unclean. This is the same lesson Peter learned from the Lord on the rooftop
in Acts when he was praying and received the vision of the "sheet" covered in food items.
But… what Rom 14:14 Paul offers a second view to his statement, namely that the nature of "unclean" and the perspective of "unclean" may be
different depending on the individual believer's perspective. This again reminds the audience of the weak/stronger brother
from earlier in the chapter and reminds us of the pastoral perspective of the book as a whole
if anyone regards… unclean what Rom 14:14 here Paul allows that one's perspective of "unclean" may have some bearing on what is and is not unclean for that person
Paul is not giving the authority here for one believer to determine that which is unclean for another. This is self imposed
brother or sisters who Rom 14:15 again Paul uses familial language to remind the audience the two "halves" of the church are related as family. Both Jewish
and Gentile Christian are part of the Lord's family and thus are related through their relationship to Him
is distressed what Rom 14:15 the word used here carries the following meanings: to offend, to make sorrowful, to make one uneasy, to affect with
saddness, to cause grief. The clear implication is the actions of the "stronger" (likely Gentile) brother causing negative
reactions in the weaker (likely Jewish) believers in Rome
- because of what you eat what Rom 14:15 the given cause of the distress in this verse is again, the "eating" of food that one (likely Jewish) considers unclean
- no longer acting in love what Rom 14:15 the final outcome of the stronger (Greek) brother causing distress for the weaker (Jewish) brother is that the stronger
brother is considered unloving in the action (eating/drinkging) towards the weaker brother who is still captive to legalism
therefore what Rom 14:16 a second conclusion is drawn, based on the unloving action of eating/drinking with a weaker believer
good be spoken of as evil what Rom 14:16 the "good" action in view here is the permissible exercise of Christian liberty, however, when around those who are
weaker and consider it wrong, the "good" action becomes bad and is then considered evil for causing distress
not a matter of eating what Rom 14:17 the larger point is the unity of the Church, not the legalistic laws we do or do not choose to live under
peace and joy in the HS what Rom 14:17 the peace and joy that should be evident in the lives of the believers are the main point, this unity is greater than personal
liberty in any issue
anyone who serves who Rom 14:18 another unifying statement that no matter which (weaker/stronger) side of the isle one is one, the calling to leave at peace
is the greater calling for all believers
pleasing to God what Rom 14:18 the truth given here is staggeringly simple. If one wishes to be pleasing to God, it is not found in legalistic rules, but in
the success of living in peace and joy with other believers. Unity is pleasing to God, not legalism or libralism
Therefore what Rom 14:19 another conclusion that builds to the next teaching, because unity is greater than legalism or libralism… the next point
make every effort what Rom 14:19 both Jewish and Gentile, weaker and stronger brothers are to do all they can, with all their energy to accomplish
- peace what Rom 14:19 peace is the absense of all conflict and the presence of tranquility, safety, and prosperity.
- leads to what Rom 14:19 the peace found between believers is not the end goal, but rather the means which leads to…
- mutual edification what Rom 14:19 edification is the act of building or building up, in context this is the building up of one another's Christian faith. This is
the purpose of Chrisitan peace, not just the "feels" of being safe, but the function of building up
do not destory the work of Godwhat Rom 14:20 the "work of God" is the growing or building up of one another's faith, this mutual edification is the "work of God"
food is clean what Rom 14:20 the food is not what is unclean, as all food is now "clean" in God's eyes
wrong… causing to stumble what Rom 14:20 the stumble here is not to cause someone to sin, but more accurately to cause another believer to take offense
it is better what Rom 14:21 the "better" meaning more God honoring choice is for the stronger brother to not engage in anything that might
cause the weaker brother to take offense. This places the responsibility for peace in both hands, the stronger brother to
consider the weaker and the weaker brother still responsible to not judge and grow in maturity
whatever you believe what Rom 14:22 Paul acknoweldges that all believers will not have the same opinions on these issues
keep them to yourselves what Rom 14:22 Paul also admonishes all believers to keep these issues between themselves and God
does not condem… approves what Rom 14:22 the stronger brother should not bring non-eternal condemnation on him or herself by that which is approves of. This should
not be viewed as eternal condemnation as one believer does not have the authority to do this for another
one who doubts is condemned what Rom 14:23 God is not condemning believers based on their opinions, the crux of this verse is that to engage in actions that contradict
one's own conscience is then sin. This is the believers responsibility to live in Christ with a clear conscience.