Well good morning! Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Pastor Bill. I am back. Hopefully Coach Bill treated you poorly. I hope so. And I hope that for those of you who are joining us for the first time or you're tuning in for the first time, today might feel a little weird. That's okay. One of the things that we do here at Catalyst is we don't apologize for what the Bible says. We're gonna study it. We're gonna look at it and we're gonna see how it applies to our life. Now here at Catalyst we are about one thing and that is loving people to life change in... That's right. Life change in Christ. I'm gonna change the sign over the door so that we remember those last two words. Life change in Christ. That's what makes the difference between a Sunday sermon and a life coach encouragement. We're about life change in Christ. Now usually this is the point where I would talk to you about the sermon series that we're about to start and give you all that information. This is a standalone. So for those of you who are wondering, oh my God, how long do I have to hear my pastor talk about sex? Just today. Today's a one-off. So everybody go... Right? Everybody take a breath. But let me give you the key thought for this message. If you get only one thing, here it is. Sex is good when it's holy. Right? Sex is good when it is holy. Now for some of you the idea of holy and sex don't go together in the same sentence. That is what I want to challenge today. That is the part of your brain that I want to carve off and move out of the way and replace it with what God's Word says. When sex is holy... So I want to teach you a new term this morning. It's called holy sex. Everybody say that with me. Holy sex. For all of you who didn't the first time, try it again. Holy sex. I want to talk about holy sex. And if you don't think that sex can be holy, let's rewind for a second. What does the word holy mean? Yes ma'am. It means to be set apart. It means to be set aside or moved over and be different from other things. So when we talk about holy sex, we are talking about sex that has been set apart. Now first I would like to ask you to turn with me to the book of Genesis. It should be very easy to find. It's the first one in your Bible. We're going to go to the very first chapter of the Bible. Because before I can talk to you about holy sex, I need you to understand where sex comes from. God created sex. So why do I feel authorized to speak about it in the Lord's house? Why is it not dirty or secretive or giggle boxy or whatever? Because God created sex. In Genesis chapter 1, I want us to look at Genesis 1, just verses 27 and 28. Just Genesis 1, 27 and 28. So here, let me read to you the two verses, then we're going to go back and kind of break them down a little bit. So here's verse 27. So God created mankind in his own image. In the image of God, he created them, male and female. He created them. Verse 28. And God blessed them and said to them, be fruitful and increase and number, fill the earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky and over every living creature that moves on the ground. Now, for those of you who are here in the beginning series, when we went through the book of Genesis, this is not going to be a surprise. But let's go back and look at just verse 27. There's two things I need you to see. First, so God created mankind in his own image. That word mankind is all of humanity. That should never be interpreted as God created men in his own image because God created humanity. God created humanity in his own image. That means every single human being who has ever been born or will ever be born is made in the image of God. We are all image bearers. Some of us are saved image bearers and some are non-redeemed image bearers. But salvation doesn't change the image bearing concept. That's the first thing. All humans are image bearers of God. Second, he created them male and female. So if God created all of humanity and in his sovereign authority, he chose to create two different sexes. A male sex that is anatomically different from the female sex, is God surprised by the sex act? No. Like just put this one in your noodle for a minute. Bake it. Is God surprised by the sex act itself? No. Because when God created male humans and God created female humans, he created them to work together. Make you really uncomfortable. He created them to fit together. So the idea that sex is anti-God or that sex isn't somehow unholy is just completely wrong. It's not like God created humanity and then Adam and Eve discovered sex on their own. And God went, oh I did not think of that. Right? How, I mean we all laugh about that. How laughable is that? The idea that God Almighty did not know what the male sex organ and the female sex organ could do together. And in fact, not only did he not know, look at verse 28. God blessed them and said to them, be fruitful. You want the new international billboard? No, you don't want the new international billboard. God blessed them and said, go make babies. Go be fruitful. Go make babies. But here's what I want you to understand. Go make babies was not the end of the instruction. What does he say there? He says, God blessed them and said, be fruitful, increase in number, make babies, have children, fill the earth and subdue it. So do you notice here that not only is God not surprised by sex, but sex is the means, not the goal of human life. Sex is the means by which we follow this very first instruction. It is not the goal of humanity. The goal of humanity actually comes after the have sex and have children. It says, be fruitful, increase in number, fill the earth and subdue it. Now why was humanity intended to subdue the earth? Well now we got to go back to our Genesis theology pre-fall. Keep in mind this is Genesis 1. There is no sin in the world at this point. So there is no sin with Adam and Eve's sex. I'll say that again. For those of us who were raised, and let me sidebar for a minute, for those of us who are raised in church, there is usually one view of sex. Sex is bad, evil, ugly. We should never talk about it. We should never recognize it. We should never let it be spoken about in church because it's so evil. And then when young people grow up and get married, congratulations. All of that evil, ugly stuff that we told you about, now you can have it. And it actually creates, I mean, I'm in a pastor's group on Facebook, it creates a lot of problems for young Christian marriages. When we pour into children and young people, sex is evil, sex is dirty, sex is ugly. You should not want it. Anytime you think about it, you're sinful and wrong and you need to go pay penance. Oh, but by the way, once you're married, it's totally okay to have sex with your wife. Go enjoy. And we've never framed what sex is about. And now you have an entire generation of young people that the only, the only definition of sex being given is the world's definition because the church is too afraid to talk about it. I mean Genesis 1 and God's mentioning sex. Pretty sure it's okay to mention for the rest of the 66 books too. So God creates male and female humans. He understands what the sex act is going to be. He understands that the sex act results with children. He blesses all of that as a means to accomplish his true purpose in humanity. But what humanity was made for was to be God's representatives in his creation. That's what that end is. To fill the earth and subdue it, it is to subdue it under the rule of God, not the rule of man. Adam was God's regent. He was never created to replace God's authority. So we haven't even made it out of Genesis 1 yet. God's not surprised by sex. God is not anti-sex. God is not anti-sex. But God creates humanity, instructs them to go have sex as the means by which to accomplish his ultimate will. This is why I consider sex to be holy. Because it existed in a time before sin. You cannot establish all sex as sinful when sex exists before the very first act of sin. They are having sex and having children before the fall. Or at least they're having sex. They haven't had children before the fall. But sex itself is created by God. So here's what I want you to understand. If you look at the back of your bulletin, I gave you a little fill in the blank here. It says, because God, and the first blank there is created. Because God created sex, he is the only one who can define it. Because God created sex, he is the only one who can define it. If you go out and write a book, and you just pick, pick. You want to write sci-fi. You want to write old fantasy. You want to write historical fiction. If you go out and write a book and it is the product of your full creativity, you do not ask anyone else for their opinion. When you create your work, you make the rules. The only person with the correct authority to define what sex is, is the one who created sex first. And this is, I think, where we get a lot of our theology of sex wrong. We start with sex is a human act. Sex is a human activity. Therefore, humans can choose what to do with it. That would be as much as saying that parents bought a brand new car for a teenager, but have no say in how the teenager drives it. We're the child working out the activity that our father has created. Right? If the teenagers weren't uncomfortable with the sex talk, they're really uncomfortable with the driving talk. Because God created sex, only God can define sex. Now, let's go to the next point here is this. Holy sex is not shameful. We need to get this out of our Christian thinking. Holy sex is not shameful. Turn the page over. Go to Genesis chapter 2 and I want to look at verses 20 to 25. 20 to 25. Now we're into chapter 2. Keep in mind we are still pre-sin. The fall doesn't happen until Genesis 3. So we are still existent in a creation that God himself said is very good. Genesis chapter 2 verses 20 to 25. Now we are going to zoom open this concept of God created male and female and we're going to see exactly how he did it. Genesis chapter 2 starting in verse 20. So the man gave names to all the livestock, the birds in the sky and all the wild animals, but for Adam no suitable helper was found. So the Lord caused the man to fall into a deep sleep and while he was sleeping he took one of the man's ribs and closed up the place with flesh. 22. Then the Lord God made a woman from the rib he had taken out of man and he brought her to the man. And man said, this is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. So she shall be called woman for she was taken out of man. 24. This is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife and they become one flesh. 25. Adam and his wife were both naked and felt no shame. So let's go back to verse 20. First thing I need to make sure we understand coming out of verse 20 is God gives Adam a job as his regent, as his authoritative representative on earth. He gives Adam a job and he begins to name all the livestock. In the Bible when you give a name you are also tacit amount to recognizing your authority over that object. So parents give their children's name because the parents retain the authority and responsibility to raise that child. In this instance Adam is giving names to everything in creation because they have been given to Adam under his authority and under his responsibility. But the end of verse 20 says, but for Adam no suitable helper was found. So let me explain this word helper because it has caused a lot of problems in the Christian Church. The Hebrew word used here that is translated in English helper is azer. A-Y-Z-E-R if you want me to spell it phonetically. Azer. Azer does not mean subservient. You hear that. Azer does not mean servant or subservient to. The word helper is not designed that Adam is in charge of Eve and Eve works for Adam. That is the incorrect understanding of this word. It literally means one who brings help, strength and assistance to another. In fact the word azer is used of God Almighty in his relationship to national Israel in the Old Testament. You don't need any more proof than that that the word azer is not subservient. God Almighty has never made himself subservient to national Israel but many times in the Old Testament he is the one who brings in the help, the strength and the assistance needed for national Israel supposed to be doing what they're supposed to do. They still screwed up and that's okay. But when God himself can describe himself as an azer we need to be very careful when we try to use that word helper and turn it into that the wife is subservient to the husband. She's not. In fact if you look at verse 21, the Lord caused the man to fall into a deep sleep and while he was sleeping he took one of the man's ribs and closed up the place with flesh. Many many many many pages of theological ink have been spilled over of all of the bones in the human body. Why did God pick a rib? In my opinion he picked the place that was most closest to the side to illustrate the equality of male and female. He didn't create Eve out of the bottom of Adam's foot to be stepped on. He did not create Eve out of the top of man's head to rule over him. He created Eve directly out of the side of Adam to illustrate their equality. Also keep in mind what was Adam made out of? Adam was made out of the dust of the earth itself. So when Eve is made from the same material that Adam is made out of and that material comes from the side location of equality, theologically what Genesis is trying to teach us is that both male and female are equal in the sight of God. They are both made as image bearers. They are both made from the same substance. They are both made to work the same task being his representatives on earth. But male and female are not identically the same. Verse 22, then the Lord God made a woman from and he taken out of man and he brought her to man. This is depict we we rehash this verse right here every time we have a modern-day wedding ceremony. So how does the wedding ceremony start? Me is the preacher guy. I'm up front. Normally the would-be groom is right here. His best man is right next to him. His best man and I, okay if you've never been in a wedding that I'm in I'm gonna get do secret right now and no one's ever gonna ask me to do their wedding. So while we're standing up in front and all the guests are coming in the best man and I are throwing jokes at the groom getting him to break getting him to laugh. It is the funnest part of any wedding ceremony. I kid you not it is hilarious. The best man sitting up there he's throwing shade about the first time he met his he met his wife-to-be and throwing jokes and I just not let soon as soon right before the you know there's this moment where the tension is really high right before the bride walks in and I just gently turn over the groom and I say hey hey just so you know when we're done here everybody knows what you're doing tonight. Yeah your grandmom sitting right there yeah she knows what you're doing tonight. Her daddy that's about to walk in the door yeah he knows what you're about to do tonight. So just just hold on never fails never fails instantly the groom's pressure comes off. Yeah it's great it's my favorite moment in all wedding ceremonies just know it's coming. But this moment right here is the father of the bride bringing his daughter to the groom. That's what this is. God is Eve's father and he presents her to Adam as the groom and he oversees the first union of marriage. It's right here in verse 22. He made him he brought her to the man but look at Adam's response in verse 23 he says this is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman. What is he saying? Adam recognizes Eve's equality. She is made of the same substances. She is equal to me and yet Adam does something different. He names Eve. Now this is where the authority and responsibility are different from positional relationship to God. Adam is responsible to lead his family but notice what he does here. He uses a word and what's interesting in our English language is man and woman woman that contains the same thing in the Hebrew it's the same way. The word woman in Hebrew contains the same root as the word man but with a differential. The differential is Eve is a female human. She is made of the same substance as me but she is made differently than me. This is Adam in a single sentence recognizing both Eve's equality as a as a female human being. She is equal to him but also recognizing her femininity keep in mind they're both naked. There's no clothes. It's very clear. Daddy she is different. Just as much as Adam was naming all of the other animals that were in pairs, God allows Adam to realize that it's not good for man to be alone. We skipped over that but trust me God knew what man needed because think about this if male and female fit so well together did God already not plan on making Eve until he made Adam? Like don't you think that the male anatomy doesn't make a whole lot of sense if there's not a female anatomy to go with it? Again I'm trying to be technical without vulgar right? God made Adam for Eve. God made Eve for Adam. God made their anatomies for one another to work together appropriately. So when Adam receives his bride right? He receives his bride from the father and he says this is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman for she was taken out of man. She was made of the same substance as me but she is surely different than me. Male and female are not the same. I mean at a chromosomal level. Let's take sociology out of it. Let's just talk chemistry and biology. XX and XY are not the same thing and they can never be made to be the same thing. They were created differently. You can never honor femininity by lessening masculinity and you can never celebrate masculinity if your celebration of masculinity degrades femininity. They were made by God to be glorious but different and normally in men's fraternity we get into a lot of that. Like I'm sorry. If you're a man who can't celebrate the power of femininity, you're not a real man. Get over yourself. Get over that fragile male ego and all that stuff we go through impurity and celebrate powerful women for being powerful women and being a powerful woman does not mean that you have to put down powerful men. The problem is when we try to vie as if one of us is supposed to be better than the other. The reality is the azer word means we are equal but different and that's okay because that's the way the creator created us. So I need you to understand that God created sex. I need you to understand men and women are built differently in case anyone didn't know that there's your surprise of the day and yet we are built differently intentionally. Look at verse 24. This is why. You notice that this is why. Normally we'll go to a man leaves his father and mother united to his wife and the two become one flesh. Why does a man leave his father and mother and unite with his wife? In order to understand that you have to understand 22 and 23. Why do men leave their family of origin unite with their new wife and create a new family element? Because that's the way God intended it and if you've ever noticed it tends to be that a new married couple will have a stronger bond with the wife's family than the groom's family. On the average that usually happens. Why? I don't know. I think it's interestingly coincidental but when God creates the first marriage he then tells us in 24 this is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife and they become one. Now that become one flesh. There's also a lot of theological ink to be spilled on this one. It does describe the physical sex act. I'm not gonna lie. That's not all it describes. That's not all it describes. That's the beginning. That's the 1.0 level of description. But when we see that the verse begins with this is why now we understand why we do that. Why do we do that? Because men and women were made from one flesh. Think about it. When God creates human flesh for the very first time what does he do? He pulls the dust of the ground. He breathes into it makes the first human. Then he makes Eve out of that human flesh that is Adam and then they come back together as one flesh in order to make another generation. We are not just doing something physical. We are doing what we were designed and commanded to do by our Creator. Male parts and female parts work together not by accident. By design. By design. So here the man and wife can become one flesh 25. Adam his wife were both naked and they felt no shame. Now the naked here does mean that they were literally unclothed. It also means they were without blemish. They were without sin. There's no sin at the end of chapter 2 which means there's no shame in sex when there is no sin. And this is what we fail to teach our young people. Sex is awesome. There's your tweetable quote. Sex is awesome Pastor Bill. Holy sex is awesome. God set apart sex on purpose. God set apart sex. So here you can see it's on the back of your bulletin. I'm gonna give you God's design for sex. Here it is. God's design for holy sex. Holy sex is one man, one woman, one marriage, one lifetime. That's God's design. And again I would argue since God created sex, only God can define it correctly. We participate in sex. We didn't make it. We didn't make sex. We didn't create sex. So therefore we as human beings are merely participating in an act of God's creation. We don't get the right to make the rules. Any more than humans get the right to change the law of gravity. Now we may use gravity to our advantage. We may learn how to fly planes but guess what we didn't do? We didn't change it. We must operate within the rules that our creation was made. God's design. Now let me say something about God's design. Humanity makes mistakes and we screw up greatly. Our mistakes in no way change God's design. God in His grace sent a Savior to overtake our failures when we brought sin into the world. God's design was always for us to have relationship with Him without sin and then we fail and God overtakes our failures. So for those who are living outside of God's design of one man, one woman, one lifetime, one marriage, there's grace. But grace don't change the rules. Grace doesn't change that He is the Creator creates holy sex. Now I now want you to turn to the book of Leviticus. This is probably every Christian's favorite book. It's the book of the law. Leviticus literally means the book of the law and now I want to show you why you should have holy sex. Am I gonna beat you over the head with the thou shalt nots? I don't think that's pointful. I'm gonna lead right to why we should be committed to holy sex because let me ask you a question. Ladies get your elbows ready. Gentlemen, when it comes to holy sex, one man, one woman, one marriage, one lifetime, if your wife, I'm checking the average age of who I'm about to say this to. Gentlemen, if your wife were to discover you looking at images of less than fully clad women, can I say it that way? That's it. That's a really pastor way to say that, right? If your wife were to discover you looking at images of less than fully clad women, would she be happy with you? No. All the ladies are going, you better say no. So here's the deal. If God's design were not one man, one woman, one marriage, one lifetime, the man could go back and say, well honey, I never kissed her, I never touched her, I never met her, so I'm not guilty. I'm still inside the marriage. No, you're not. Your commitment level has already left. Just because your body hasn't caught up with your commitment doesn't mean that the wife doesn't feel violated. Gentlemen, let me turn the shoe on the other foot. You come home from work to greet your wife and she puts you on hold because she's texting some other guy giggling and having a great time. Now how do you feel? You feel like your wife is sharing a part of herself with another man and you're probably pretty ripped about it, to be perfectly honest. This is why holy sex matters because holy sex is about commitment, not rules. And too many times as Christians we love to pull out that thou shalt not commit adultery from the Ten Commandments. We love to specify and enumerate all the different ways that God doesn't like sex. I think that is the wrong way to approach the issue. I think if we were to just merely focus on the right way that God's designed to enjoy sex, we could stop and ignore all of the thou shalt not stuff. In fact, if all you were to do, let's say you got a list from your wife, right? Honey, I just need to give me a list of all the things I'm not allowed to do so you'll feel like I love you. Right? The ladies are going, no, because you're gonna find something on that list that I haven't thought of yet that's really gonna take me off. That's why starting with the negative will never work. Starting with the negative of don't do that, don't do that, don't do that, don't do that, don't do that, don't do that, doesn't mean you actually love me. It just means that I have changed your opportunities. When you turn and say, I don't do that because I love you. I don't look at that because I love you. I don't talk like that because I love you. See, now you're prioritizing the relationship and when the relationship is in the right place, this stuff doesn't matter. But when the relationship is not in the right place and you have to be told don't do these things, then you don't love enough here. If you loved enough here, this would matter. And I see it a lot when I go to the gym, right? So, when I go to the gym, I got my earbuds in. I am not talking to anybody. I'm either like rocking out to some workout music or I'm listening to an audiobook. But one of the things I love to do at the gym is I love to watch how men look at women in the gym. I think it's hilarious. There's one of two categories. The first cat was three maybe. So, the first category is somebody sitting there, they're pumping weights and the gym I go to is over in New York. So, it's very close to the university. So, there's almost always some college level young lady in a very tight outfit doing her workout to go back home, right? So, this particular young lady walks across the floor of the gym and I love to watch all the guys. The guys do one of two things. They either go... Right? So, they're either rubbernecking just to watch her walk by or the other guys go, I'm not looking. Don't let her see. I'm looking. Girl, I'm not looking at you. I'm just here for me, right? Either way, they're reacting to her. They're either going, I'm not looking at that or they're going, oh, I need more of that. When the reality is, I gotta say, both of them are a little off to me. Both of them are a little off. The guy who's rubbernacking and looking at somebody that's not his wife, dude, you just deserve to be hit with the dumbbell. Let's just hit you and get it over with. But the guy that's so overly concerned about not looking also bothers me. I don't care if that young one was naked covered in barbecue sauce. Like, you're not my wife. Go away. Just get out of my way. Because, see, I love my wife enough that I don't care what you look like. Now, does it bother me? Yes. Do I get uncomfortable? A little bit. But just because you're not my wife. Those areas of your body, I'm allowed to look at my wife's areas. I'm not allowed to look at yours. And I don't want God to catch me looking, right? My wife catches me looking. I'm going to meet God. So, I need to worry more about God than I need to do about my wife. But when you put the relationship in the right place, it doesn't matter how many thou shalt nots I need to give you. If you're controlling your sex life by what you're not allowed to do, you're missing the point of how much I love this person. And my love for this person makes everything not this person not okay. That's holy sex. God has said this design, one man, one woman, one marriage, one lifetime. All of that, all you can eat. Have as much as benefits your marriage. And we'll get, and we'll get, no, trust me. We're gonna get into how much you're supposed to have in a minute. So, don't think you're not uncomfortable yet. You're gonna be way more uncomfortable in about five minutes. At least we can laugh. I was so worried that everybody was gonna be so nervous. It was like, you're a pin drop. It's gonna make this way harder. So, let's look at everybody's favorite book of the Bible, Leviticus. Turn to chapter 18. I want to look at verses 1 through 5. Leviticus chapter 18, 1 through 5. This is the don't do that in sex chapter. And I'm not gonna bother with those. What I want to show you is the why. If you get the why, hopefully your obedience will follow. If I teach you this and you still don't know how to be obedient, see me after church and I'm gonna hit you. Because it's the only thing I got left. If you won't obey the word of God, maybe you will obey the fear of the stick. So, watch this. Leviticus chapter 18, let's look at the first five verses. The Lord said to Moses, speak to the Israelites and say to them, I am the Lord your God. You must not do as they do in Egypt where they used to, where you used to live. And you must not do as they do in the land of Canaan where I am bringing you. Do not follow their practices. Verse 4, you must obey my laws and be careful to follow my decrees. I am the Lord your God. Keep my decrees and laws for the person who obeys them will live by them. I am the Lord. Now go back to verse 1. First off, does everybody notice the word Lord is in capital letters there? That's the English translators way of letting you know that this is the special covenantal name for God. I am Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel. So, the covenant God of Israel says, go speak to my peeps. Go tell my people I am the Lord your God. Israel and God are in a very serious covenantal committed relationship. You don't think God is serious about his relationship with Israel. Think about what analogy he uses every time the Israelites worship other gods. He calls them adulterers. You've adulterated, you've cheated on me with these other gods. So, when he says I am the Lord your God, it's like a man saying to his wife, girl I'm your husband. That's the, when as soon as you use the H word, I'm your husband. That automatically means there is a relationship between the two of us that nobody else is in on. I am your wife. You're gonna treat me like such. Why? Because this relationship, nobody else is in this relationship. This is one man, one woman, one marriage, one lifetime. This is us. Me, my wife, and Jesus. Nobody else is in this circle. That's what he's saying. When he says, I am Yahweh. I am your covenantal God. Then what does he says in verse three? Do not live as they do in Egypt. That's where you used to live. And do not live as they do in Canaan, where I am bringing you. This is probably the most important verse on holy sex that no one talks about. The people in Egypt and the people in Canaan did not live holy lives. God didn't step on either one of them. God didn't send Israel back to Egypt and go, let me tell you all the sexual stuff y'all not allowed to do no more because you suck. He didn't do that. He said, no, you are my chosen people. I am your covenant God. And because of our covenantal relationship, you don't get to live like those people. I just took you from that. By the way, I'm sending you there, but you don't get to live like those people. You will live committed to me because I am your God. In the same way, gentlemen, we live committed to our wives because we are their husbands. What is the church of Jesus? Then he comes back for his bride. We are justice, covenantially chosen. And we are to live in that covenantal relationship even when you're in bed. Because he created sex, he defined sex. And then he called us to live holy. You know what else I love about this verse? Do not live like they do in Egypt and Canaan. Every... Somebody messaged me this week and they were like, man, there's that meme going around like if God doesn't do something in America, he's gonna have to apologize to Sodom and Gomorrah. Like I get that. We live in a highly sexualized culture. Can I let you in on a big secret? We don't live in any more of a sexualized culture than Old Testament Israel did or than the New Testament church did. Sex goes all the way back to Genesis 1. And since the fall, the enemy has always been twisting sex. So how did they live in Egypt and Canaan? They lived in Egypt and Canaan worshiping with sex. So let me explain. The highest God in the Canaanite group was Baal, or Baal, B-A-A-L. He was the god of fertility. His mistress was named Ishtar. The way that the Canaanites believe... So when the Israelites are in their 40-year wilderness wandering, right, they're nomads. They don't stay and they don't farm. They have to keep moving from place to place and they keep their herds with them. When they make it to Canaan, it's this lush land, this lush provision that comes right up out of the ground. So the Canaanites believed that their highest God in their pantheon, Baal, was the god of fertility and he was also through fertility, was prosperity. So when it rained, the rain causes the crops to grow. They then eat from the crops. They can sell the crops. They are prosperous, right? So Baal's fertility is the rain coming down. The Canaanites believed that the rain coming down from the sky literally was the seed of Baal falling on the ground around them. Adults, you get where I'm going with that? I can be no more vulgar than that. Okay. So the Canaanites believed that the rain was the literal seeds from Baal, that he is spewing out on the ground and that that ground then produces fertility, it produces food, and for them to eat. So when they wanted to get Baal to give them the fertility, they would entreat their gods by doing the kinds of acts that they wanted Baal and Ishtar to do. So the way they worshiped was with sex. And I'm not just saying like married sex. I'm saying every form of sex that you can imagine they would do. That includes within your own family unit. That includes with your children, with your grandchildren. They would do as much sex as they needed to to get it to rain. Because they believed that they had to inspire, maybe I'll use that word, they had to inspire Baal to get hot under the collar enough to make love with Ishtar so that his seed would rain down. So they would do whatever was necessary to get their god turned on enough that seed would come down so they could have fertility. That's Canaanite worship. That's what it is. Also in the midst of fertility, if Baal wasn't giving them enough seed, they would give back their children in child sacrifice to him and to entreat him to be even more erotic. So Baal is prefigured in Canaanite idolatry as a giant statue of a man with a bull's head and horns. So he's this big towering figure. The bull is this huge symbol of masculine power and fertility. Super masculine. And inside the stomach area of the Baal idol, the stomach would be open and there would be a fire pit in here. They would stoke the fire. So symbolically, they're trying to stoke him his passion, his excitement. They would stoke the fire in his belly and then they would have all sorts of sex. And I mean every sex you can think of, they're doing it. Homosexual, heterosexual, incestual, bestiality, all of it happening right around this giant statue. They're trying to get him so that the seed will come down. If all of that didn't work, they would bring their firstborn child alive and place it on the burning altar and burn it alive while having sex in order to get the seed to come down from heaven. That's Canaanite worship. Just putting it in your minds when people say to me, oh we live in such a godless age. I'm like, bro we don't live with that. Praise Jesus. My children did not grow up seeing that. But that's where God was sending the Israelites. So when he says, don't be like the Canaanites. I'm thinking it's a pretty good reason for that. Now all of that, here's the other thing that's great. He also didn't tell Israel to go in and tell the Canaanites how evil and bad they are because Israel's job was to be the representative of God's love and grace. Throughout the Old Testament, there are plenty of Gentiles who convert to being a God-fearer and worship God correctly. There are. So Gentile salvation is not to the New Testament. It exists in the Old Testament. Rahab, my favorite story from Joshua. Rahab's faith changed her entire family and she was a pagan Gentile through and through. She was a pagan prostitute and her faith saved her whole family. So Gentile salvation in the Old Testament is a real thing. But God's people have been called to live differently and that includes in your bedroom. That includes your bedroom acts. Why? Because God created sex. He defined holy sex and God's people should obey God's laws. God's people should obey. So watch he says here in verse 3, don't do like they do in Egypt. Don't do like they do in Canaan. Do not follow their practices. For you must obey my laws and be careful to follow my decrees. I am the Lord your God. The reason God's people have holy sex is because they represent a holy God. Just think about that. The reason God's people have holy sex is because they represent a holy God. When someone does not represent a holy God, they have no reason to only have holy sex. So in my opinion, going out and picketing and beating people over the head like they live in Egypt and Canaan when they don't know who God is yet, you're putting the cart before the horse. You cannot force internal submission to the spirit by controlling external actions. It never works. Like how many of you were the five-year-old going sit in that chair, sit in that chair. You finally spanked me. I'll sit down because you're bigger than me and you're scary and now you've hurt me. But I'm still standing up on the inside. Yeah, that was me. Next time my parents are here, just tell them pray for them. I was the most difficult child ever until my internal will says, Lord, I choose to submit. I choose to limit this wonderful gift you've given me because you created it, because you defined it, and because you've called me to be holy. When we put holy sex where it's supposed to be, all those thou shalt nots, don't lay with a man, don't lay with a woman, please don't lay with your sheep. Can we just say that one? Like don't do those things. Why should we not do those things? Number one, the Bible had to say it because they were doing it. Okay? Bestiality, totally a thing in ancient Israel. It was totally normative. That was not outside the realm of normal for their lifestyle, for their lifetime. We face an entire generation, our country is so focused on sex, okay? But if you live in Egypt, I don't expect you to live for Jesus. If you live in Canaan, I don't expect you to live for Jesus. When you come to Jesus, you choose to submit to the rest of his will. You can't have one without the other. But this idea that we have to force everyone into holy sex, no, God is offended with everything that's not holy. Don't single out sex, you know? God is offended with words that are not holy. God is offended with motivations that are not holy. God is... Sure! And that's why I think Christians have made too much of the sex thing because if we make a big thing out of sex, then maybe my sin over here gets forgot about, right? My jealousy, my pride, my arrogance. No, God still needs your sin to change too. But the reason that holy people have holy sex is because they represent a holy God. And if you're not representing a holy God, then you're not a holy person. And if you are a holy person, then I have every right to expect you to act holy in your bedroom. Do you see how that works? We can forget about all the thou shalt nots. We don't have to enumerate the difference between fornication and adultery. We don't have to do all of that. All we have to do is say that's holy sex, have as much of a difference as we can. All we have to do is say that's holy sex, have as much of that as you want. Leave the rest alone. Why? Because I represent him and he created that. That's what holy sex is. Now, turn with me to the book of Jeremiah chapter 3 verse 6. I'm also going to put it for you on the screen. Here's where I need to end with because I need you to understand how significantly God views holy sex within marriage. Jeremiah chapter 3 verse 6. Have you seen what faithless Israel has done? She has gone up on every high hill and under every spreading tree and has committed adultery there. Now, by the time Jeremiah comes on the scene, we're two-thirds through the Old Testament. The United Monarchy is gone. The nation of God has now fractured into two. Israel is up here. Judah is down here. Jeremiah is a prophet down here in Judah. Israel is already well, well, well given into sin and Judah's still trying to hold on. God's still trying to get them and ultimately Judah will fall as well. Think about this for a second. Why does God choose adultery to describe his relationship with his people? He could have chosen anything. He could have chosen a law breaker. You know, we see a lot of that in the New Testament. You're a law breaker. He doesn't do that. He doesn't even mention the law there. He says, have you seen your adulterous sister? She gives it up to everybody. Every hill. I don't think that that spreading tree comment isn't exactly the way it sounds, right? She's gone because they would build altars on any high pointed place because they believed they were closer to Baal so their sex would get him more aroused, right? When God describes what his people are doing, he's describing them as a faithless wife who's just putting it out there every chance she gets on every high hill. You continue reading that chapter, it gets a little rough. He's like, you gave it to every single passerby. I thought after I found you, I thought after I redeemed you that you would love me but no, you went right out. It even says, I just love this too much. I can't give it up. Forget you. I mean, Jeremiah does not pull any punches. If God was not serious about holy sex, why does he use holy sex to describe his relationship with his people? That's the level. So, here's what I need you to think about. Those of you who are married, how covenantial, how hurt would you be to find that your spouse was sharing themselves physically with another person? How hurt would you be? That's how God feels when we don't obey holy sex. Because he said, wait a minute, I bought you, I redeemed you. Think about the entire book of Hosea. What did he tell Hosea to do? Spoiler alert, he tells her, he tells his own prophet, go marry that woman. Her name was Gomer and she was flighty. Gomer would go out and sleep with anybody if it got her money, if it got her prosperity. She would leave her husband and go live with other men. I mean, read the book of Hosea. It's amazing what God puts Hosea through as a testament to the way his people live. God chose the definition of sex, of holy sex, to describe his relationship with his people. That's the severity level of sex in the Bible. And that's the thing I don't think it's spoken about enough. Holy people are supposed to have holy sex because we represent a holy God. That's it. Let's not have to beat anybody who's not holy yet. Let's not have to beat them over the head with the don't do this. How about we get them, bring them to Jesus and we let the Holy Spirit change their heart and then they become holy people. We should not make sex a barrier to coming to Christ because when I read the Bible, I see that there is no sin greater than the sacrifice of Christ. There's also no ranking system in sin, okay? You might not like homosexuality more than heterosexuality. You might not like that. Guess what? I don't care. See, Coach Bill's still here a little bit. Well, and so for me, I grew up, I graduated in downtown Atlanta from a public high school for the performing arts. I grew up in the LGBT community before the letters were even written. Right? I grew up around gay and lesbian students. Some of them were my best friends. They were never offended that I was a Christian and I was never offended their relationships because they weren't Christians. They were pagans. They didn't know they were pagans. I didn't know they were pagans at the time because I didn't know what pagan meant but that's what they were. We should stop expecting pagans to act like Christians and we should stop letting Christians act like pagans. Don't, it cuts both ways. You got to have both. If I come across somebody who has not given their life to Jesus yet and you start talking about who they go to bed with before who died for their sins, you got the message of the gospel way wrong. Way wrong. Because who they go to bed with, it doesn't matter who they go to bed with. Without Jesus, they go to hell. So, that means that's the first thing. You have to catch fish before you clean them. We should stop making holy sex a barrier to come into Jesus. For those of you who have come to Jesus, I'm going to beat you over the head with holy sex because you say you represent a holy God. So, you're either a hypocrite or your salvation is not real or you have no discipline in your faith. But if you say you represent the holy God, then live like it. Live like God is saying, can you please stop cheating on me? How many times do I have to buy you back from your sin? How many times do I have to redeem you from your darkness? I am your God. You are my people. We are in this relationship together. Stop bringing other people into my bedroom. This is your heart belongs to me now. But see, when you're not married yet, when you're not in that committed relationship yet, well, then everybody's a target, right? Because I'm not committed. This, so let me give you the takeaway. I've already started waxing on it, but here it is. Christians are only to have holy sex. Holy sex is defined as one man, one woman, one marriage, one lifetime. That is what our design is. Now, does that mean that every single Christian is married to their first husband or wife? No, I'm not stupid. I'm not an idiot. I actually spent a really good amount of time this week researching the issues of divorce and remarriage before I preach the sermon to make sure that I was ready in case anybody had a question. That took up half my study time just wrapping my brain around that mess on where the Bible's at on stuff. But I'm not going to back down from that's God's design. When we fail him, we can experience grace and we come back into a covenantual relationship totally. But I'm not going to sit here and tell you that God's design is anything other than one man, one woman, one marriage, one lifetime. Christians are only to have holy sex and we need to stop expecting pagans to live like Christians. The gospel is more important than what someone does in their bedroom. It has to be. Because if you're trying, if you're afraid to share the gospel with someone because of their gender identity, because of who they like to be in bed with, then you don't know the gospel well enough or you don't love Jesus enough. Because there should, because here's the deal. If you let somebody go to hell because of whatever their sin is, self-righteousness, pride, arrogance, it has, might have nothing to do with sex. You can be a heterosexual unmarried male and still go to hell. Who knew? You can be a heterosexual, conservative, well-dressed, modest, powerful businesswoman and without Jesus, still go to hell. So we need to stop putting things before the gospel. We need to stop making the reception of Jesus more difficult than it should be. Once someone comes to Christ, then we start the process of life change in Christ. Until the life change moment, don't expect unbelievers to act like believers. When I sit down and I talk to somebody who's gay and they're like, do you think my lifestyle, God hates me? No, God loves you. God is as disappointed with you as he is with me. I'm still a sinner. I'm still arrogant. I'm still angry too much. I still don't treat my wife as well as the word calls me to. I'm still a failure. You're no better than me and you're no worse than me. But if somebody hasn't committed their life to Jesus yet, let's not make that step harder. Once you have, now you've limited. So now let me get as I close, let me give you the facts about holy sex. So here they are. Number one, the bible specifically commands married people to have sex. It does. The bible specifically commands married folk to have sex. Go to the book of first Corinthians. Paul talks about fasting. He specifically says to people, married couples don't forgo for too long lest you be tempted. The apostle Paul specifically says married couples, you need to be being intimate regularly. Okay? Husbands, if that's the note you want to write down from church today, go ahead. The bible said so. Ladies, let me tell you this. I also look this up. Statistically, statistically proved back in 2019-2020, heterosexual married couples have more sex than unmarried couples. Married people have more sex than unmarried people about eight to ten times per year more. Ladies specifically, married women have better sex than unmarried women. And I had to ask my wife what word I was allowed to use at this part of the sermon. So let's just use the word satisfaction. Ladies, you know where I'm going? Those of you who are giggling, you know exactly what I'm saying? Statistically speaking, married women have better sex than unmarried women do. Why? Because when it happens within that holy relationship, you have a partner who loves you, you have a partner who's obeying God, you have a partner who you trust. There's more conversation, there's more intimacy around the act itself. You can look this up. I didn't make it up. There's like two or three studies out there. People who have holy sex have more sex and have better sex than everybody else. So, when you think about our sex-driven culture and you think about the fact that our culture is no, like we're just not different. We are not different than the ancient Canaanites. We are not different than the New Testament church that lived in Corinth. They had a temple in Ephesus where you could go pay your tithe, sleep with any one of the prostitutes you wanted. Male, female, old, younger, didn't matter. You just picked one and go have sex with them in the temple because that's how you worship. We do not live in a culture that is any more sexualized than the one the scriptures took place in. If you don't understand the history, then bro, we got to study that Bible together. We got to realize that God's people have always been called to be holy regardless of who are around. So, stop making Egyptians feel bad about being Egyptian. Stop making Canaanites feel bad about being Canaanites and stop making holy people get okay with not being holy. That's what we should do. That's what holy sex means. You've been bought at a price. Those of us who are believers, you've been bought at a price. That price means you and I are now in an individual relationship with a holy God who wants us to obey him above all others. That makes you a set apart holy person and that makes your bedroom life set apart and holy for God. Your bedroom life should be active according to the scriptures. Like, no lie, should be active, should be loving, should be all that God created it to be because it is in that relationship that we go all the way back to the beginning and it's the means by which we follow God's commands. Holy sex is not evil. It's not bad. It's not dirty. It's not wrong. It's glorious. It's wonderful and it's designed that way on purpose.