If you are joining us online, thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family. Now here at Catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change in Christ. So if you're here this morning, whether you're in our sanctuary or you're part of our virtual audience, we love you. But we love you enough to tell you the truth is you should not be staying the same week after week going to church. Going to church should be like going to the gym. After a while there should be some sort of noticeable change. In your lifestyle, in your relationships, in your habits. Something should be changing to become more like Jesus every single day. And one of the ways that we manufacture that change, or really one of the ways the Lord manufactures that change in us, is through the studying of his word. So today we are going to continue our walk through the Psalms, some are in the Psalms, so I invite you to turn to Psalm number 8. Psalm number 8. I'm sure some of you thought we were going to just keep on going to 4. Well there's 150 Psalms. I can't do 150 Psalms in the whole summer, but we're going to start skipping a few. We're going to go to Psalm number 8. While you're turning there, let me give you the key thought that holds all of these sermons together. Here it is. The book of Psalms is ancient Hebrew lyrical poetry that expresses timeless relevance to anyone striving to live a life that honors God. It is ancient Hebrew lyrical poetry that expresses timeless relevance to anyone striving to live a life that honors God. A couple things you need to know about the book of Psalms. First is that the Psalms are written over a thousand year period. The earliest of which was written by Moses, there are several written by David, a guy named Asaph, and some of them are just unnamed, we're not sure who wrote them. Second, Psalms don't rhyme, because they were not originally written in English. That's not meant to be confusing, it's just meant that poetry looks different in different languages. And so we have to use different tools to understand what the poet is getting at. Today you're going to learn another poetry tool to use. Psalms can be described in four main categories. Praises, songs, laments, and imprecatory Psalms. I'm just going to put that right there. I don't even know what that was. Okay, we'll fix it later. Imprecatory Psalms are when you're asking God to have vengeance on behalf of the wrong done to a person. Like that whole, you know, jack-em-in-the-jaw last week we looked at. And then number four, the book of Psalms as we know it was likely compiled after the exile period. That doesn't mean the individual Psalms were not written earlier. Obviously since David didn't live in the exile period, something written by David has to be written earlier. But they weren't compiled into the book as we know it until now. So now let's go over our big Bible story and get to all the way to the exile period so we can sort of understand. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. He created a garden at a place called Eden. Into that he put Adam and Eve. Their first two children are Cain and Abel. The third kid is named Seth. That's right. They get kicked out of the garden. Humanity begins to spread across the globe. Sin becomes a major problem. God sends a punishment for sin in the form of a flood. He asks a man named Noah to build a boat named the Ark on which they put humans and animals to survive the retribution for sin. Humanity gets a restart. We fast forward Genesis 12. God chooses a man who was living in a place called Ur of the Chaldeans. He says, go to the land that I will show you. I'm going to be your God. You're going to be my people. Your descendants will be as numerous as the seashore or the sand on the seashore. That man's original name was Abram. Original name, Abram. God changed his name to Abraham. Then God repeats that same covenant promise from Abraham to his second born son. The name of the second born son of Abraham who's the covenant inheritor is Isaac. God repeats the covenant promise again to Isaac's second born son who also becomes a covenant inheritor. And that second born son name is Jacob. Then Jacob has 12 sons. They become known as the... Oh, then God changes Jacob's name from Jacob to Israel. Somebody said it right. God changes Jacob's name from Jacob to Israel. His 12 children become the 12 tribes of Israel. They move into the land of Egypt at the end of the book of Genesis to escape a famine. And then 400 years go by, they get enslaved. And now they're living in Egypt enslaved. They cry out for a redeemer. God sends them a man named Moses, his brother Aaron, sister Miriam. They lead the children of Israel through God's divine intervention. Ten plagues. They lead them out of Israel. They cross a body of water on dry ground. That body of water is called the Red Sea. Then they're supposed to go right into the promised land but there's an obedience problem. And they already after experiencing the plagues are worshipping pagan idols at the foot of Mount Sinai. So, God has them wander in the wilderness. For how many years? 40 years in the wilderness. For that entire leading generation to die off. A younger generation raises up to take its place. That younger generation is led... They lead the children of Israel into the land of Canaan. What is the name of the man who replaces Moses as the leader of Israel? Joshua. Joshua leads them into the land of Canaan. They slowly move in. They're supposed to move everybody out but they don't. Then they have even more disobedience problems. We get to the book of Judges where God appoints people to redeem his people every time there's a problem. In the book of Judges, everyone does what is right in their own eyes. Everybody decides for themselves what is good, what is bad, what is right, what is wrong. And then ultimately Israel becomes jealous of the pagan nations around them. And they say, God, we want a king. We want a human king like all the other kids have. And so they... God says, listen, if you want one, I'm going to give it to you. But it's not going to go the way you think. He's going to conscript your sons into military service. He's going to conscript your daughters into serving in his palace. The first king of the United Monarchy of Israel is named? Saul. The second one. David. The third one. Solomon. What happens after the reign of Solomon? Civil war. Yes, but civil war is what I was looking for, Michael. Civil war happens and the nation of Israel is never whole again. There is the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. And they remain two separate kingdoms for probably the middle to the second or two thirds through the Old Testament. And then God finally has to send them to time out because they still have an obedience problem. Have you noticed the key theme here? The entire book from beginning to end is our human obedience problem and how much God loves us trying to get us to fix it. So, God ultimately has to send the northern kingdom of Israel into a time out. He uses an external pagan nation to conquer them and carry them off. The name of that first pagan nation that conquers Israel? Assyria. Assyria carries off Israel. Judah was a little more obedient. Judah got to stay in its land. While Israel is carried off into Assyria, Assyria gets conquered by Babylon. Babylon finally comes in and conquers Judah, carries the rest of God's people into captivity. And then Babylon falls to Persia. And then Persia allows the people of God to come home. They are in total exile for 70 years. Then they finally allow to come home. That's Ezra, that's Nehemiah, that's Hezekiah. Them trying to rebuild the Jewish state after being in exile, conquered for 70 years. And that's when the book of Psalms is finally compiled. If you didn't understand all of that history that had gone on, you would often miss the settings in which these Psalms are written. These are either, again, there's the four categories. They can be praises of God, a song, which is actually what we're going to look at today, a lament, we looked at that last week, and an imprecatory song where you're calling down the judgment of God. If you didn't understand all that history that we have to review every week, you wouldn't understand where these people lived and what they went through that made them feel the way they feel, which is why the poetry is written. Now, today I would like to teach you two new terms or keys for interpretation. And I don't think I put these in my notes, but you can write them down. For those of you who like to take notes, the first is what's called an inclusio. No, that is not a Harry Potter spell. It is actually a form of biblical interpretation. When you hear the word inclusio, what does that sound like in English? Inclusion, right? An inclusio is bookends, where everything inside is included. So whenever you're looking at a psalm or a passage in scripture and you see that the first line and the last line kind of say the same thing, right? Like there's one psalm that starts, Oh Lord, oh Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. Guess what the last line of that psalm is. Oh Lord, oh Lord, how majestic is... You see that right there? That's an inclusio, Meaning everything that's included in that psalm follows that theme. Think bookends. If I bookend the theme at the beginning and the end, that's a big, blight, flashing sign that says, Hey, that's what this is about. The second one, and this is a little more technical, but it is called a chiasm. A chiasm. And I want you to imagine, so my children just got done with doing math with the greater than and the lesser than symbols, except they didn't call them the greater than and the lesser than symbols. What do they call them, Michael Joel? Alligator eating left and alligator eating right, right? Alligator eating left, alligator eating right. So this is what a chiasm is. If you can imagine that symbol, right? Just that greater than symbol. You see how it's like the top of an arrow, and it goes like this to the middle and it comes back out. When you outline something, and I have the outline, so those of you who want the outline, I'll give it to you. The psalm today follows this sort of triangle shaped outline where the beginning and the end are the same, the second and second to last are the same, and they meet here at a middle point. And so I can see here and here, and then everything is bending around this middle flex point. That is not accidental. That is an intentional way in which they wrote poetry back in the day. See, when we write poetry, usually it has to rhyme, or it's got to have a beat or a meter to it. Because why? That's our culture. That's the way we write. When they wrote, they used structure to communicate their point. So in today's psalm, the two interpretive keys that you need to understand, the first is that inclusio, bookmarks, bookends. There's a bookend at the beginning, a bookend at the end when it's repeated. That's a big point to our theme. And then the second is this triangle shaped chiasm where we have point A is at the beginning and the end, point B is the second and the second to last, and point C is here in the middle. So that's the way this psalm is going to be outlined. For those of you who like notes, A is, again, we've got to talk about a verse zero, because your Bibles don't have a verse zero, but they should. So point A, the top of the upper triangle, is verse zero in the first half of verse one. Then B is the second half of verse one and two. C is verses three and four. So point C again is five through eight, and then A again is nine. And that makes this triangle. And I want to explain that to you because I'm going to show you why that matters. So the final thing is, some of you are looking at me like a donkey staring at a new gate when I said verse zero, so let me explain what I mean. Most English Bibles, the first verse of Psalm 8 is, Lord our Lord. However, there's text in front of that. If you were reading the director of music, according to Giddith, a psalm of David, if you were reading in the Hebrew Bible, that would be verse one. Because that is part of the scripture text. Just like last week when it said, you know, David, when he's fleeing from Absalom, that's part of the psalm. It's meant to be included. So what does that verse zero tell us? We're studying a song. It even tells you, for the director of music, bro, cue that up and sing this to that. This is a song. Now, there is a little bit of debate in the scholarly community of what Giddith actually is. Is it a tune? Is it an instrument? Is it a tune played on a specific instrument? I can't tell you because unlike the harp and lyre, we don't have whatever that is today. But what I can tell you is, if we're saying, hey, worship leader, play it like that, that sounds like a song, right? Hey, worship leader, play it like this. You know, put it in that key for me. If my wife is leading worship, just in case anybody ever wants to know, her favorite key is B flat and her favorite time signature is 6-8. So, Vic, if you ever just sit down at the keys, give me B flat and 6-8, and your two-thirds, they are playing everything Melanie likes. It's just the way it always comes down. So if I were to say to the worship leader, hey, I want you to cue up Giddith for this song, we're going to be studying the way that they actually sang and worshiped God. So that's verse 0. Before I break it down, let's read the whole thing, and then I'll get back to that because I'm getting ahead of myself. I apologize. So this is Psalm 8. I'm going to start in verse 0, read all the way to the end, and then come back. You have made them rulers over the works of your hands and put everything under their feet. All the flocks and herds, the animals of the wild, the birds in the sky, the fish in the sea, and all that swims in the paths of the seas. Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. And anybody who was a Christian in the 80s and 90s is singing Sandy Patty in their head right now. I'm saying. Everybody who nodded, you're all old. Just stay with me. All right, so I already explained verse 0. In the Hebrew Bible, that would be verse 1. And it says, for the director of music, so now we're talking a song, according to Giddith, whichever this particular style or instrument was, also a Psalm of David. So we are reading today a worship song written by King David himself, left with musical instructions of how to play it. I just can't tell you exactly what Giddith is. So now that we know we're looking for a song, and you saw the Inclusio, right? The first verse and the last verse. That tells you what your primary theme is. It's super great. Like in our modern day worship song, usually you wait for the chorus. The chorus is the part of the song that you sing over and over and over that gets repeated, unless it's a modern worship song, in which case they put a bridge and a tag and a tag and a tag and a tag and a tag and a tag and a tag and a tag. But verse 1 and the end verse 8 say the same thing. Lord, which Lord is that? That's Lord, all capital letters. That's Yahweh. This is David writing a song of worship to the covenant God of Israel. Yahweh, our Lord. Now why do I have to say Lord, our Lord? He's literally saying Yahweh, our authority, our king, our emperor, our master. He who has all authority over all of us. Now keep in mind, when the king is saying, you are the king, that means this is the king of the king. This is the king of kings. So David is writing to the covenant God of Israel, who he is stating is the source of true royalty for the nation. Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. The word majestic here literally means how mighty, how great, or how magnificent. How mighty, how great, how magnificent. How magnificent is what? How magnificent is the name of the Lord. Now why is it important that the Lord's name is magnificent? Because in this day and age, the name represents the thing. The name represents the person. So what David is actually saying when he says, Yahweh, our king, how great is your name or how magnificent is your name. How great is your name. He's saying Yahweh, our king, how great are you everywhere. There is nowhere that you are not as great as you are here. There is nowhere that you are not the sovereign God of the universe. That's what he's saying. I mean he's saying it in a song obviously, so he's saying it poetically. How majestic, how magnificent is your name in all the earth. And then in the second part of verse 1, he then begins to describe why the Lord is so great. Why the Lord is so magnificent. You have set your glory in the heavens. So now we're not just talking about Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel. We are not just talking about the Lord, the one who holds authority over the king and all the people of Israel. We are also talking about the creator of the universe who has displayed his glory, power, splendor, weight. All of those words could be translated out of that Hebrew word there. You have displayed your glory, your splendor, your power. You ever heard somebody use the word heavy like Doc Brown from Back to the Future? Wow, that's so heavy. Whoa, totally heavy man. We're not talking about an idea that actually weighs something. What we're talking about is the impact of that thing is so great, is so heavy. That's what this word here means. Your glory, your power, your splendor, your weight. You have displayed, you the God of all heaven and earth, have displayed your splendor and power in the heavens. So much greater than a human. And keep in mind this is a king. This is a king, probably the most respected, the most honored king from the entire Old Testament who is saying, you my king, you Yahweh my king, there is nowhere that your name is not great because you have displayed your splendor in the skies and the heavens itself. They declare your glory. I don't know about you but I love to go outside at night in the winter. It's just too dag burn hot outside. I am not a summer person. For all of you summer people, I love you. I will pray for you, for you to come around and join all of us autumnels when cold weather and hoodies get here and the rest of us come back out to play. But there is something just awe inspiring about the night sky. When it's clear and it's maybe a little cool and crisp and you're standing out there with your mug of hot beverage and you're just looking up and there's just this amazing view and you're just looking up and there's just this sense of whoa, right? That whoa, that's this word here, glory, splendor, weight, whatever you want to throw into it, that's that. Whoa. You did all that. That's how great you are. That's how powerful you are. That's what David is expressing. Now keep in mind, David lived before the invention of electric light. They obviously had candles. They had lamps. But they didn't have giant, big LED powered like Home Depot size electric lights. So they have a whole lot less light pollution than you and I live with today. If he were to go outside at night, especially on a night when the moon was perhaps waning or waxing, the glory that he could see in the sky would absolutely trump what you and I can see when we go outside. And he sees all of this and he said, Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel, this is you. This is how great you are. This is how powerful, how much splendor you have. But that's not all. And then we get to verse two, which now starts. So the first part is the majesty of God, how majestic you are. Now the power of God. God's power is reflected in the universe and God's power is also reflected in humans. Look at verse two. This is a super poetic line. Let me see if I can break this down for you. So first, through the praise, that word praise literally means through the mouth opening verbal declaration, through the speech, through the saying, through the talking, through the singing of what? Of children and infants. Those two words mean the same exact thing that they mean in our English language today. An infant is smaller than a child and a child smaller than a teenager. Their words mean exactly the same thing. An infant literally is one who is still needing her mother for his or her mother for nutrients. Right? They're still a breastfeeding infant. A child is everything from the breastfeeding moment but still needs mom for all their capital needs. That's these two words here. And why does he choose these? Why does he choose these? Well, because I would say to you, children and infants represent the weakest part of humanity strength wise. You don't think that children and infants defend stuff, right? You wouldn't arm children and infants in a stronghold, a place of military power and might. No, you would take all the big burly dudes and the big scary women with spears and you would put them in a military stronghold for defense. You wouldn't put children and babies. And yet what David is saying is no, that's actually the opposite. God is so powerful. God is so majestic. Remember our covenant God, the God who's in relationship specifically with Israel is so powerful that even through the mere words, the mere speak, the mere praises of children and infants, God has established a stronghold against enemies. And then he goes on to define those enemies as two things, the foe and the avenger. The foe, the enemies foe and avenger, all three of those words have one thing in common. They are all people who treat Israel with hostility and violence. All of them, the foe, the avenger and the enemy. They're all categories of people who use violence for their end means. So what is he saying here in verse two? The power of God is not just seen reflected in the beauty and the majesty of creation in the sky. It is also reflected in the way God's power works through even the littlest of human beings. Even children and infants, the praise that they give to God is powerful enough to defend Israel from violent attack. That's how powerful God is. See, David was a man of war. David's a mighty man. You can go back and read those stories. David is not a stranger to military conflict. But David understood something about military conflict. Definitely you see it in the story with Goliath. David understood that it is Israel who fights the battle. That the sword happens to be in his hand, but it's the God of Israel who fights it. And so here in verse two, he's expounding on this majesty, this glory. And it's not just the big things. It's also the little things. The glory of God can be seen in the way my children give glory to God. The way my children pray. The way my children worship. The way my children ask questions about the things of God. God is so powerful that his majesty and splendor are reflected in them, not just in the big things overhead. So first you have the majesty of God, then we step into the power of God. And then we step into the middle of our little triangle here. The middle of our triangle starts verses three and four. When now we specifically speak of the way God creates. Watch, verse three. When I consider your heavens. Why the heavens are God's? Because he made them. When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and stars, which you have set in place. Again, big up here. God has made all. God has made all of that celestialness. And then what does verse four do? Verse four brings back to humanity again. So first, when I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and stars, which you have set in place. The giant cosmic creator. Verse four. What is mankind that you are mindful of them? Human beings that you care for them. How does David know that the God of the universe cares about human beings? Because he said his very first word, Yahweh. The covenant God of Israel who's already revealed himself and made a covenant with God's people. David knows that now does. Let's just be perfectly honest. Does David have a fully formulated like Imago Dei image of God doctrine the way we do? Probably not. Could he have understood? Did he have the texts? The Pentateuch, the Old Testament. Yeah, he totally did. Could he have understood that man is made in God's image? Yes, he absolutely could have. Can I guarantee you that David understood the image of God on man the way we understand today? I can't. But what I can look at, verse four, and I can see that David understands that the God who created everything cares and loves for human beings. Verse four. What is mankind that you are mindful of them? Human beings that you care for them. You see the parallelism? He's asking the same question two separate ways. What is mankind that you are mindful of them? Notice that word mankind means all humans. He didn't just say, what is Israel that you are mindful of us? He uses the global scope term. What is all human? Why are humans so important that you care for them? Why are we as creatures so valuable that you love them? I know we just got finished with VBS deep diving, the difference between creation and evolution. And I got to point out this is a huge one. If the story of evolution is true, human beings are not any special form of organism on this planet. We're all descended from the same universal organism. If evolution is not true, which means creation is true, then that means human beings are special. And there's something unique about us and our relationship with God that doesn't exist in the rest of creation. That clearly is the verse four implication. What are human beings that you care for them? That word care implies that you look in, that you know about them. Like, have we ever considered the fact that the God of the universe who literally spoke all existence into creation knows the details of my personal life? Knows the details of my yesterday? Knows the details of my tomorrow? Knows the details of my children's yesterday and my children's tomorrow? That's a pretty big deal. So verse four, all of a sudden we see this juxtaposed again. Big, big creation all the way down, scope down on human beings. Then verse five, we continue now talking about human beings. You have made them a little lower than the angels. You have crowned them with glory and honor. Glory and honor, another parallel statement talking about the specific way in which God has created human beings to reflect part, definitely not all, but part of this glorious nature that God has. So not only is he the God who can speak all of creation into existence, not only is he the God who specifically cares about human beings, but now I get to verse five, human beings were made a little lower than the angels. Now David's got an Old Testament angelology, so he knows that angels exist. He knows that angels are more powerful than humans. Does he know everything else that we probably know? Probably not, because he doesn't have the advantage of the rest of the Old Testament the way we do. But he knows that angels are real and he knows that angels are more powerful than humans. And what he says is in verse five that the God of creation, the God of the universe has made human beings just slightly lower than angels. Notice that that would mean by extension slightly greater than the rest of creation. He's talking about the image bearer concept, even though he's not using the same language that you and I would use to describe it today. He is absolutely describing the glory of God reflected in the specialty of humanity. You've made them a little lower than angels. You've crowned them with glory and honor. Verse six, you've made them rulers over the work of your hands. You have put everything under their feet. You see the parallelism again in verse six. Verse six is saying the same thing twice. What is it saying? Because of God's special love and care for humanity, because of the glory of God reflected in humanity, humanity is given an authority and responsibility that is greater than the rest of creation. So verse six, you have made them rulers. Where does the authority come from? David's a king. David understands that God is in charge. David understands that it's God who chose and anointed him for his leadership position. But he also understands that it's ultimately God that's behind authority and humanity altogether. You have put everything under their feet. And then starting in verse seven and verse eight, you get this really kind of illustrative view of creation. And he divides it into a couple different things. First, flocks and herds. Flocks and herds are domesticated animals. They're the animals that they would have held. So you get sheep, you get your goats, definitely mules, things they would use in an agrarian society. That's flocks and herds. The second group in verse seven, animals of the wild, that's all animals not domesticated. Right? So I can really say verse seven is domesticated animals and non domesticated animals. They would have understood those two categories. So all of the things that God has given human beings the authority over, domesticated animals, non domesticated animals. And then in verse eight, he further describes the category of non domesticated animals by breaking it down. So first, birds of the sky, fish of the sea, all that swims in the paths of the sea. So here's what I want you to see. Where do flocks and herds live? On land. Where do all non domesticated animals that they would have known about live? On land. Where do birds, where are they seen most? They really don't live solely in the air. But where do we see them? In the sky. Where do fish live? In the water. That pretty much makes all of creation. Right? He's saying in a very beautifully poetic way that God's special relationship and authority vested in humanity is over literally everything that lives on the ground, everything that lives in the water, and everything that flies in the sky. I'm going to teach you a really cool theological term. Ready for it? Everything. That's what it is. But you have to follow the argument the way the song is being built. It first talks about the glory of God in up here and in the small things. God's glory is reflected in all of creation and humanity. Then the specialty of humanity. God made humanity to reflect His glory. Part of reflecting His glory is God made humanity as stewards of all creation. And then seven and eight list every living thing on the planet. Now, when you get to verse eight, the fish of the sea and all that swim in the paths of the sea. The fish of the sea is anything that are in large bodies of water. Paths of the sea are small bodies of water. So, I don't really think that verse eight should be read in the sense of the way you and I might describe salt water versus fresh water. Although I guarantee you they understood the difference between salt water and fresh water. How do I know that? Because it's in the Bible. Does a spring spring forth both fresh water and salt water? Like they knew about the difference. But here the difference is more domain of living than the type of water that's actually mentioned here. So, humanity as God's special creation and reflector of His glory is given sovereign authority by God over domesticated land animals and non domesticated land animals. Verse eight, over the birds that fly in the sky, over the fish that swim in the deeper bodies, over anything that lives in the smaller deeper bodies. And then we get to verse nine, which is the other part of your inclusio where we began. Lord Yahweh, our Lord, King, sovereign authority, how majestic is your name in all the earth. Which brings us full circle with what is the theme of this song. The theme of this song is that God's majestic glory is reflected in His special relationship with humanity and their special relationship with Him. All of that comes from a man who was anointed king when he was a teenager. And you can go back in 1 Samuel and 1 Kings and you can read all the things that David went through. Now, what I can't tell you and I would love, oh my gosh, what I love. I'd love to be able to tell you in what season of his life did he write this. Right? Did David write this when he was out with the sheep? Did David write this when he was out with the sheep? You know, as an older teen and he hadn't faced Goliath yet? Did David write this during the Goliath season of his life? Where he began to grow in prominence but Saul was still king. Did David write this during the I'm a running for my life part when Saul was trying to kill him? Did David write it when he became king and was righteous? Did David write it when he was fooling around with Bathsheba and was unrighteous? Did David write it after the death of his child which was the punishment for his sin? Did David write it while his son Absalom was chasing him like the last one we looked at? Did David write it at the end of his life when he's about to go home to his king and pass the monarchy off to Solomon? I wish. Like, we're going to chalk this up and this is like question 135 that I've got when I make it to heaven. I'm going to find David and be like, yo, when did you write that? I can't tell you. And maybe, maybe that's a good thing. Because I'm not distracted by the individual circumstances of when he wrote it. Because what he wrote really applies to all of us in every stage of our life. Now I'm going to ask you to raise your hands but I want you to do it in your head. So if you have to sit on your hands to not actually raise them, do that now. But I want you to raise your hand in your head and I want you to ask a simple question. For all of you who would say yes, you totally agree that the God of all creation is truly glorious and majestic, raise your hand inside your head. Okay? Now keep it up in your head. Keep it up there. Okay? It's not going to get tired. Now how many of you realize that you are intended to be the reflection of that glory just like the night sky? How many of you see yourselves that way? How many see yourselves as the mirror that is intended to reflect the glory of the God of the universe? Because we too are in special covenant relationship with God. That's at the beginning of the first verse and the last verse. Yahweh. We are in special covenant relationship with God. We are under a different covenant than David was. But it's the same God. It's the same people. We are grafted into the same nation. We are given the same stewardship and responsibility of creation. But you and I have an extra responsibility. We have the responsibility of the gospel. Something that David did not have in his time. He had the responsibility to obey the law. He also had the responsibility to worship. But you and I carry a responsibility that David could have only dreamt about. He could have only looked forward to the time when the one true reigning king of kings would come and establish his kingdom. And we as his citizens, as the king of kings, Christ's citizens, you and I were custom built and fashioned by the God of all creation to reflect his glory. Not just his church. Did you know that this building that you and I are sitting in is not glorious? As much as we do an excellent job of being a good steward of this building, the building does not reflect God's glory. You know why? Because there's plenty of times Tyler and I can come here on a Wednesday and the air conditioner is not on and it's not comfortable and it doesn't feel very glorious. You know what? And so Tyler, I'm going to pick on you for a second, but that's because you and I, I know you and I have had this conversation. There are some times during the week where Tyler and I individually will just come here and we'll just sit in this room. None of y'all are here, obviously, because it's like a Tuesday or a Thursday. The room itself is not glorious. But when the presence of the Holy Spirit walks into this room inside of Pastor Tyler and he sits down in any one of these chairs and he communes with the living God, then the glory of God is present in the house of God. When you and I are here right now, the glory of God is present in the house of God. At 11 o'clock at night when this building is empty, it's just a building. Why? Because under the new covenant, you and I are the temple. Under the new covenant, you and I are what is built to reflect the glory of God. The problem is we don't teach it that way. I don't think we teach the gospel as you are a living, walking, talking billboard for Jesus. You are a living, walking, talking billboard for Jesus. Congratulations. Or maybe I should say it this way. You are a living, walking, talking billboard. What's your sign? Right? Do you walk around reflecting the glory of God? Or do you walk around reflecting the glory of whatever your cause is? Whatever your life's mission is? And it's not bad if you have a cause and you have a mission. But you weren't saved by Christ to be on that cause and that mission. That cause and mission works into the ministry of the way the Holy Spirit works in your life? Totally. I would be the first one to say you do not have to work in ministry to be a minister. You do not have to work at the church to share the gospel. In fact, I will admit to you it's harder for me to share the gospel than I think it is any of you. Because at least when Jim and Lisa go to work, they probably got at least one or two unsaved coworkers. Just going to guess. Did you know I don't have any unsaved coworkers? Like, did you ever realize that? Like, even when me and Tyler and Miss Nancy and Miss Lucy and Bill and Mel and all the ministry team leaders and all the deacons are here, I don't have any unsaved coworkers. Who am I supposed to share the gospel with? You have a much greater advantage than I do to reflect the glory of God. But do you wake up in the morning, you roll out of bed, walk in the bathroom, you look at all that's going on in the mirror, you know, you got to brush the stank off the teeth, got to brush the curls out the hair. Do you ever look in the mirror and say, I am a reflection of the glory of God? I have to admit I don't. I never thought of it that way until I really started trying to unpack what is David's point here. And if you follow the triangle, and I'm going to go back to my outline so I can explain it to you. Here's his point. The majesty of God is revealed in the power of God that ultimately brought about the creation of mankind and his image bearers. Through man, we were given responsibility to God to reflect his majesty back to him. And that's the way that chiastic structure works. We start and end with the majesty of God. We have the power of God and the responsibility of man. And ultimately the hinge point is God choosing to make us special. The gospel saves us for him. But that means we're also supposed to live for him. The gospel is not supposed to be pull out your get out. This is not my get out of hell free card. That's not what the gospel is supposed to be. The kingdom that Jesus died and rose to establish started the day of his resurrection. It doesn't start on the day of his return. That's what's kind of weird about the whole idea of kingdom of God. And I realize I'm running out of time so I can't unpack the entire concept. But here's what you need to understand. The kingdom of God began the day of the resurrection started. It's not realized on earth because God in his grace is giving us time to go do our job to go reflect the glory of God and draw as many into his kingdom as possible. But the kingdom started on April 9th, AD 30, the day of the resurrection. The kingdom got a huge like shot in the arm of adrenaline when the Holy Spirit fell 50 days later. And now we have an amazing ability to do the mission we've been left to do that we didn't have up until that point. But the kingdom started then. And now it's our job to reflect that glory. It's our job. And if you only memorize this one verse, whether it's the first one or the last one, Yahweh, I'm translating Lord our Lord, Yahweh our king. How magnificent is your name? If you'd just allow me just a small little translation there. Yahweh. How about this? Yahweh my king. How magnificent is your name in my life? That's my question for you today. Does the way you live Monday to Saturday reflect the majesty of God? Do you live like you're an actual ambassador reflecting his grace? Or do you just live like a normal like everyday Western American life? And then on Sundays put your Christian hat on when you come to church. You know, put your put your Christian shirt on and you put your Christian hat on your Christian dress on. And now I'm a Christian, but Monday to Saturday I'm not reflecting his glory. My challenge to you is memorize just that first line. Yahweh my king. How majestic is your name? How powerful is your name? How glorious is your name in my life?