We are going to continue our walk through the book of Psalms. So if you brought your Bibles, whether they're physical or digital, I'd ask you to turn to Psalm 14. Psalm 14, 1-4. While you're turning there, let me give you the key thought that's going to keep all of these messages together. Here it is. The book of Psalms is ancient Hebrew lyrical poetry that expresses timeless relevance to anyone striving to live a life that honors God. We've looked at this for several weeks now. The book of Psalms is ancient Hebrew lyrical poetry. And the key ideas that you need to keep in your mind as we go through Psalms is, number one, the Psalms were written by different authors over a period of more than a thousand years. The Psalms don't rhyme. They're not like poetry that we do in English because they use different literary devices to establish their point. Psalms can be described in four main categories. There are praises. There are songs, meaning ones that go to music. There are laments. And there are imprecatory Psalms. Also, the book of Psalms, as we see it today, was likely compiled after the exile period. So let's follow the big Bible story from the beginning to the exile period and we'll sort of see how much history of God's people happened while they were writing Psalms about him. So in the beginning, see? Catch off guard from the get-one. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. He planted a garden in Eden. And in there, He placed two human beings, Adam and Eve, then have two sons, Cain and Abel, then dies. And they have another son named Seth. Then after they sin, they are ejected from the garden and sin begins to run rampant. Fast forward to Genesis chapter 9. God sends a flood. He restarts humanity. He sends a man named Noah to build a big boat called the Ark. On that boat, how many humans? Eight. Noah, his wife, his sons, and their wives. Humanity restarts after the flood. Fast forward to Genesis 12. God chooses a man named Abram who's living in a land called Ur of the Chaldeans. And he says, go to the land that I will show you. I'm going to be your God. You're going to be my people. Your descendants will be greater than the stars in the sky or the sands on the seashore. He gives him that covenant. That covenant is ratified in Genesis 15. And he changes his name from Abram to Abraham. Abraham then has two sons. What is the oldest son of Abraham named? Ishmael. Then Ishmael gets a younger brother named Isaac. Isaac becomes the covenant inheritor of God's promise. So the same covenant promise that is said to Abraham in Genesis 12. It's ratified in 15. It's repeated to Isaac. And then Isaac becomes the covenant inheritor of relationship with God. Then Isaac has two sons. What is the older of Isaac's son's name? Esau. That's right. And then Esau has a younger brother named Jacob. Like his father, Jacob, the younger brother, becomes the inheritor of God's covenant promise. God then starts following Jacob. Jacob has to move away for a little bit. He ends up getting a couple of wives and coming back. And then Jacob has how many sons? 12. And those sons become... And then God changes Jacob's name to Israel. And Jacob's sons become the 12 tribes of Israel. At the very end of the book of Genesis, one of Jacob's youngest sons is sold into slavery by his brothers. Then wrongly accused of rape, sent to prison. God gives this man the ability to interpret dreams. And then God places him in Pharaoh's palace, second in charge of all of Egypt. That young man's name is? Joseph. And through that story, God places Joseph in the place of the Egyptian government, second only to the king himself, in order to bring all of his father and his brothers and his nieces and nephews and all those fun people. And he brings them into Egypt at the end of Genesis to protect them from famine. I heard it. To protect them from a famine. God uses famine to drive his people into this Egyptian incubator. Then how many years are they in Egypt before the book of Exodus begins? 400 years. Then all of a sudden Egypt goes, these guys are way too blessed. They're growing too much. If they rise up against us, we won't be able to hold them back. So they're enslaved. This begins the book of Exodus. God's people get enslaved. They cry out for a redeemer. There's a child who's born in Egypt. But then he has to flee and he goes and he moves out to Midian. He becomes a shepherd. He spends 40 more years out there. His name is? Moses. And then he marries a Midianite girl named? Oh, I heard it. Zipporah. Yep. Zipporah. He marries a Midianite girl named Zipporah. Then he comes back to Egypt and links up with his older brother named? Aaron. And his younger sister, older sister named? Miriam. And then God performs these miraculous feats, which we know is the plagues of Egypt. He pulls his people out of Egypt. They cross over the Red Sea and they park just outside the Jordan River. And before they're allowed to go back in the promised land, they have to renew the covenant at a place called Gilgal. I was going to ask you about that one, but I'll give it to you. They renew the covenant at a place called Gilgal. And it's important because they don't cross over into the promised land and receive those covenant promises until they renew their covenant obedience. And one of those covenant obedience was circumcision. Gents, no matter how old you were, everybody did it on the same day. So now that everybody's super uncomfortable in church, they eventually cross over the Jordan River, the Jordan parts, just like the Red Sea did when they left Egypt. The Jordan River parts and God's people cross on dry land into the promised land. And they're supposed to take over the promised land and live in obedience. Does that happen? No, it does not. They continue to live in disobedience. Then you get into the judges period where everyone does what is right in their own eyes. Everyone decides for themselves what is right and what is wrong and they live their own way instead of living it according to God's way. And then ultimately they get so far out there that they want to have something like all the other nations around them have. And so they ask God for a king. Who is the first king of the United Monarchy of Israel? Saul followed by David, followed by Solomon. And after Solomon's rule, what happens to God's people? Civil war or division, right? And they divide. And now the total nation of God's people gets split. It's not really in half because 10 tribes are up here. What is the Northern Kingdom called? Israel. What is the Southern Kingdom called? Judah. How many tribes up here? 10. How many tribes down here? 2, right? And they live that way for pretty much the rest of the Old Testament. And then they still can't live in obedience and God says, okay, now I got to put you in a time out. And God uses an external pagan nation to come in and take the Northern Kingdom captive. That nation who comes in and takes the Northern Kingdom captive is? Assyria. Then once they've taken him captive, God judges the Assyrians and the Assyrian nation falls to another Gentile nation and that nation is? Babylon. And then Babylon is allowed to come in and conquer the Southern Kingdom of Judah and then Judah gets carried away into captivity and now starts that 70-year clock. For 70 years, God's people are held in captivity away from the land that he gave them as an everlasting inheritance. But during that 70 years, God also judges Babylon and Babylon falls to what third pagan nation? Persia. Persia. And then the king of Persia lets them come home. It is during that period, that last part that we just talked about, that the book of Psalms is collected into the collection that you and I read today. All of that other history had already happened. God making covenants and God choosing a people and God doing miracles and God redeeming and God saving and then God disciplining and them not getting it and then them blessing him and then them not getting it and then still not getting it. A lot of not getting it happens between Genesis and the exile period. And then the book of Psalms is collected and it represents, if I go back to the way it represents, timeless relevance for anybody that is striving to live a life that honors God. And I'm sure if I really tried hard, I could find areas of my life that felt a lot like Genesis where God was making promises and I was super excited and I could see the things that he was doing. And then there's, you know what, sometimes it felt like Exodus where everything around me is just going wrong and I feel like my life is holding me captive and I'm living to my schedule instead of my schedule living me. And then there's a redemption period and I remember Christ at the cross and I could almost follow that through my life and I would understand how these Psalms feel. Now today we're going to read Psalm 14 and I'm going to go ahead and give you the Pastor Bill title of this Psalm. I'm titling this the Psalm about foolishness. I have known a lot of foolishness in my life culminating in my friendship with Jim Boucher. So I call this a Psalm about foolishness and I will explain as I get into my outline because I think this entire Psalm is dealing with foolishness. And I don't know about you but sometimes I feel like our world has way too much foolishness than it actually needs. So it's only 7 verses. Let's read the Psalm first then I'm going to go ahead and give you the outline of how I'm going to break it down and then we're going to walk through it together. So here we go. Psalm 14. Does anybody's Bible say for the director of music of David? Anybody? Okay. That's verse 0. Right? Remember we talked about in the Hebrew Bibles those subtexts are actually verse 1. So for us in English we're going to call that verse 0. So here we go. For the director of music of David. Verse 1. The fool says in his heart there is no God. They are corrupt. Their deeds are vile. There is no one who does good. The Lord looks down from heaven on all mankind to see if there are any who understand, any who seek God. All have turned away. All have become corrupt. There is no one who does good. Not even one. Do all these able doers know nothing? They devour my people as though eating bread. They can never call on the Lord. But there they are. Overwhelmed with dread. For God is present in the company of the righteous. You evil doers frustrate the plans of the poor. But the Lord is their refuge. Oh that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion. When the Lord restores his people, let Jacob rejoice and Israel be glad. That's it. Just those 7 verses. And if I didn't make it to verses 5, 6, and 7, you might have thought I was talking about today. So, that's what I told you. I said I think, I'm calling this the Psalm of Foolishness. Here's my outline. It's 3 basic sections. Verse 1 tells you the source of foolishness. Verse 2 through 4 describe the effects of foolishness. And 5 through 7 is the hope within foolishness. So 1 is the source. 2 through 4 are the effects. And 5 through 7 is hope. So let's talk about verse 0 really quick. For the director of music, that means that this was designed to either be read to music or sang to music. Notice it doesn't say to the tune of. Like our last one did. Told you, hey I want you to sing this to that tune. No, but it does say for the director of music. So it is written for use in a worship atmosphere. And it also says of David. So it lets us know that King David himself wrote these words. Then you get to verse 1. The source of foolishness is always the rejection of God. I really thought that would land better. Right? The source of foolishness is always the rejection of God. Look at this. The fool says in his heart, there is no God. Now who is the fool in the song? Well first let's talk about who's writing. King David. That means when, if you know that David is the author. Now you also know when in the big Bible story this song was written. You know it's during the second king of the united monarchy period. That means if you want to find out what happened, all you have to do is go to like 1st, 2nd, Samuel, 1st, 2nd kings. And you could hear, you could read the back story to what is David saying. What David is saying in my view is the gentile nations that surround his kingdom. Remember David came up as a warrior king. Right? The David and Goliath story happened when he was young. He was anointed king when he was so young that his daddy left him out in the field and introduced all of his brothers to the prophet. And the prophet had to go, you don't got another kid? Because they ain't it. And he's like, yeah, I mean the runts outside with the sheep, but like who cares about that? David was anointed king when he was so little, no one counted for him. And then he faces Goliath. And then he becomes the leader of the, you know, David and his mighty men. I always think of like, you know, Robin Hood and the men of Sherwood Forest. Right? They're constantly running around. Not necessarily the fox Robin Hood, more like the prince of thieves Robin Hood. You know, get a good outfit going on. So to me, when we're talking about the fool says in his heart, there is no God, he's not talking about a Jew, he's not talking about a Hebrew, because they're in covenant relationship with God. We're not the people who say there is no God. It's the gentile nations around them that reject the identity of the God of Israel. They are the fools who say there is no God. And then they go on to describe, or David goes on to describe the actions that come out of the rejection of God. What are those actions? Corruption, vile or evil deeds, and there is no one who does good. Now, interestingly, in the sentence, there is no God, that word in Hebrew is Elohim, not Yahweh. So, he's not saying, he's not using the covenant name for God, he's using sort of the general God, word God, like we would have in English today. We have the word God, and that doesn't mean I'm talking about Yahweh, that doesn't mean I'm talking about Jesus. It means I'm using a general term for God. That's why I think when he says the fool in his heart says there is no God, he's saying the fool in his heart says there's no generic God. We're not talking about specific covenant God here. But the product, the source is the rejection of God. What is the product, what is the foolishness that David is frustrated in his day? He's frustrated that they're corrupt, their deeds are vile, there is no one who does good. Literally, these are people who all they bring is ruin and destroy. The connotation here is that which is made good is now ruined, just like rust on a car. Rust doesn't add, right? I don't know anybody, like Jim, I know I'm not a super big into cars, but I'm pretty sure that rust doesn't add value. It doesn't add structural integrity. It doesn't even add aesthetics. It doesn't even add a lot of anything. That's this word, the corrupting of something. Means you took something that was good and you made it less good. You took something that was ideal and you made it non-ideal. That's what that word to corrupt means. So the rejection of God always leads to the ruin, the destroy, the lessening of quality and value of anything that is good. Yeah, I could totally get that. I could totally see where that happens. But here's what's really neat. Humans can only become corrupt if they were incorrupt to begin with, right? The only reason you can have rust on a car is if the metal was there first, rust free. The only reason that we can recognize corruption in the human image is because the human image originally didn't have corruption. How do you recognize rust on a car? Because you know what a non-rusty car looks like. This is where, I just got to point this out, like the apologist in me can't let this go. This is where the Christian worldview shines. Everybody wants to come at us and go, I can't believe in your God because there's so much evil in the world. How can you believe in a good God if there's so much evil? That's like saying how can you believe in rust on a car if there was no bumper? Right? Let's rewind that idea for a minute. Do you know how I can know that there's evil? Because I know what a good thing is. Do you know how I know what a rusty bumper looks like? Because I know what a good bumper looks like. To quote C.S. Lewis, C.S. Lewis in fact said in his book, Mere Christianity, a man does not call a line crooked unless he has some idea of a straight line. The only reason we can recognize evil is because we were originally designed and made to be good. You can't corrupt something that wasn't good to begin with. So in this rejection, and remember, I'm still talking about David's day. Like the end of the sermon I get to editorialize about 2024. I'm still talking about in David's day, people corrupted themselves by rejecting the God of Israel. And they corrupted that image. Now granted, does David have the fully born out doctrine of the image of God, the Imago Dei that you and I have today? Probably not. I don't think he had the full systematic theology that we have. We have the full benefit of the rest of the Old Testament and the New Testament to get there. But did David understand that there was something special about humans because God made a covenant relationship with them? Yes. I 100% think he could have understood that. So the source of all this foolishness, the source of all this corruption is the rejection of the God of Israel. Then we get to verse 2 and now we're going to look at the effects of that foolishness. What are the effects that come from rejecting God? Verse 2 gives you the first effect. There's a loss of understanding. So verse 2, the Lord, notice the change in word there? Now we're not talking about the random word for God. We're not using Elohim. Now we're using Yahweh. So now David is talking specifically about the covenant God of Israel. So the covenant God of Israel looks down from heaven on all mankind to see if there are any who understand, any who seek God. Well the first effect of the foolishness that comes from rejecting God is the full loss of understanding. And what's interesting is David figures the covenant God of Israel. Now why is God looking down from heaven? Because God's place of authority is higher than his own. In the same way that David understood, if he sat on the royal throne, he's looking down at his subjects, right? So the elevation poetically puts God in that place of authority over what? Over heaven. He's in authority over all mankind. See David has now zoomed out. He's not just talking about one king, whether it's him being the king of Israel or whether the Philistine king being the king of the Philistines. He has zoomed out now to the authority of all of heaven, of all of mankind. God looks down from his position of authority and he's the only one who holds that rightful And he looks down and he's going, is there like no one who gets it? I'm sorry, when I picture God sitting on the throne in heaven, I have to admit, he comes across like 35% sarcastic. I don't know if anybody else's God has that. Tell me about that. How's that work for you? No, I'll just wait here. Let me know when you're done. Let me know how that works out for you. And he turns to the Holy Spirit and he goes, hey, I haven't figured it out yet. Hang on. No, no, no, don't tell him yet. No, let's watch him. Yeah. Like to me, sometimes, sometimes God's patience is humorous. You know, I don't know if you've ever lived through a moment where you look back and you go, man, that was dumb. Right? You ever have, you just look in your rear view mirror, it doesn't matter if it was a week, a month or five years back and you go, wow, God knew I was going to do that and he loves me anyway. Yeah. I think this is this moment where God is looking down and he's looking at all of heaven. He's looking at all of the things that are happening in the world. He's looking at all of heaven. He's looking at all of mankind. And he's realizing that in their rejection of him, they have lost the ability to understand reality. And I would say again, the apologist in me thinks that the Christian worldview is significantly stronger than the atheist worldview. The atheist worldview can't explain the beginning of the universe. The atheist worldview can't explain the beginning of life. The atheist worldview can't explain why we as humans have a morality that we hold ourselves to that we make value judgments between good and evil, between morally right and morally wrong. The atheist worldview can't establish any of those. Why? Because when you reject God, you have lost understanding of the fundamental principles of reality. And that's what he's saying here in verse two. The second effect of foolishness that comes in verse three is corruption of purpose. He said, all have turned away. All have become corrupt. There is no one who is good, not even one. By rejecting the existence and the authority of God, people have turned away from him. Why? Because he's no longer the authority that you look to. The reality is I think everyone has an authority in their heart and in their mind. That authority might be yourself. That authority might be your mom, your dad, if you're a child. That authority might be a specific desire, whether it's success, whether it's money, whether it's pleasure, whether it's fame, whether it's what it could be. But everybody has an authority that they answer to. When you reject God and you supplant his position of authority in your life with anything else, you now have a problem. All have turned away rejecting him. They've been drawn away by some other God substitute. I am not the size I am because I don't like sugar. I am the size I am because I like sugar. I like sweet things. I have whole food categories. We've got the ice cream category. We've got the cookie category. We've got the cake category. We've got the cheesecake category because it is a cake, but it ain't cake. It's cheesecake. We've got the brownie category. These are important food groups for me. And guess what? I don't like sugar-free cake. I don't like sugar-free candy. Why? Because it doesn't taste as good. Right? When you reject the substance that makes life meaningful, it just doesn't taste as good. Like, I'm sorry, big boy, we've got to relate. We've got to relate in the way we work. If Jesus were a brownie, he'd be double fudge. Now, the argument we have a lot of times in my home is if Jesus were ice cream, what flavor would he be? So I'm going to let you guys keep that one to yourselves. That can be your lunch conversation. Anybody who doesn't pick vanilla can be wrong. It's okay. We'll pray for you next week. But because, in verse 3, because we've rejected God, because we have now corrupted our purpose, and now let's go back to Genesis 1, what is the purpose of human beings? See, here's another thing that the Christian worldview has that the atheistic worldview just can't do. And we talked about it a lot in VBS. If atheism is true, there is no God. If atheism is true, then the following statements are true. The universe popped into existence for no other reason and for no cause. Life itself, self-organized for no reason and no cause. Life then evolved on this planet from a single common ancestor to all of the known living forms that we have today, all the way from one cell bacteria to human beings. We are all part of the same chain. And that means human beings are not special. That means your life is no more valuable than the blade of grass in your front yard. Your life is no more valuable than an amoeba. Your life is no more valuable than bacteria. If atheism is true, human beings are not special in any way, shape, or form. The problem is we don't live that way. We have laws that say we don't live that way. I'm not committing genocide when I mow my lawn. You know the blades, have you ever thought about the number of blades of grass you have to cut down when you mow your lawn? And I don't even have a big lawn. Micah just gets on the tractor and gets it done, right? Emily gets on the tractor and gets it done. But why is that not genocide? Because I don't consider the life of my children the same as the blades of grass. But if atheism is true, human beings are not special. You are not special in any way. And then that purpose for which we were created to reflect and honor God and to serve him in obedience gets completely corrupted. And the only thing we have left is to serve ourselves. The only thing we have left is what brings me the most joy, the most happiness, the most self-fulfilling pleasure is the only value in life. It ultimately turns into what's called nihilism, which means there is no end. Nihilism just ends in nothingness. You're here and when the electrical impulses in your brain stop, you don't exist anymore. And ultimately your life didn't really make a difference because you're just here and then you're gone. That's the end of the atheistic worldview. And in my opinion, that is a massive corruption of what God originally designed when God designed humans for eternity. But we're just auditioning during our life. You ever thought about that? Human beings are designed for eternity. In Genesis one and two, we were designed for everlasting life in obedience with God because in the middle of the garden, there were two trees, the tree of knowledge of good and evil. And what was the tree right next to it? The tree of life. If we had, if humanity had remained in obedience to God, humanity would have lived in face to face relationship with God in a place of blessing where all provision was given for eternity, endless life. That's what we were built for. But sin came in, that rejection of God. What was Satan's original temptation? God didn't really say that. That was his, he just misquotes God. God didn't really say that. And then instantly we corrupt, we thwart, we rust out what we were designed to be, which is his regents. Humanity was designed to represent and worship God. And here, now in verse three, all have turned away. Our entire purpose is corrupted. There's not even one good person. And that leads to verse four, the third effect of foolishness, which is the mistreatment of God's people. So not only have they rejected God, not only have they corrupted their original purpose, but now we're going to mistreat God's people. Verse four, do all of these evildoers know nothing? Like y'all just don't get it. They devour my people as though eating bread. So who is he talking about? Number one, let's rewind. Who are David's people? Israel. He's the king of Israel. Who are the evildoers, the Gentile nations that surround Israel? The Philistine, I mean you can read through the first, second Samuel, first, second Kings, first, second Chronicles. All those battles with all those different Gentile nations that worshiped pagan idols. They come in and they devour my people as though eating bread. I don't know about you, but my wife loves carbs. She loves carbs in the form of bread. I love carbs in the form of sugar, which makes our house super healthy. Super healthy. Anybody who's a diabetic, you just need to breathe before you come into my living room. And then you add in my youngest child who's like half made of sugar and like you can just breathe in our house and get a sugar high. The eating of bread. But see, we live in a day and time where you can just go to ShopRite and you can buy like five different kinds of bread. Right? You can buy sandwich bread and you can buy pita bread and you can buy naan. You can buy all these beautiful different kinds of bread. But that's not the way David's bread was in his day. Bread took time to pick the wheat or the barley. Then you had to mill it. Then you had to bake it. This is a much more celebrated food. It's a delicate food in their day much more than in our day where you could go and pick up a loaf of bread and just, you know, smack out a grilled cheese or a PBJ anytime you want. Bread in his day is a treat. So now think about that as you read this sentence. They devour my people like it's a treat. They devour my people like it's a delicacy to be enjoyed. The violence that he's talking about here, even though he's using these images of bread. And you might be thinking marble or rye or toast or French bread. And now I'm going to get you really hungry before you go to lunch. Talked about brownies and now we're on to bread. The attitude in verse four is that the Gentile nations around Israel, they savor mistreating the people of God. That's what he's saying when he said they devour us like bread. They savor and enjoy the mistreatment of God's people. That's that's rough. Then now now we switch to the third part of my outline here. We get to verses five and six. Now we got to talk about the hope that happens within foolishness. So here we go. The first hope happens here in verse five. The hope is that God's presence will always be with his people. But there they are. He's talking about all the Gentiles who love to mistreat us like they love their French loaf. There they are overwhelmed with dread. Why? Because God is present in the company of the righteous. Yes. Get a jawbone. Let's go. God's present in the company of his eyes. Notice he didn't say they're not mistreating us because God is present. No, God is present while they mistreat us. That same in the New Testament. The Holy Spirit was in them while they were persecuted. So don't think just because God is present that they don't have to experience the mistreatment. That is not the story of the Bible. In fact, Jesus, what did Jesus who said the world's going to hate you because it hated me first. Yeah, Christians are not supposed to get a red carpet everywhere in the world. We will be mistreated. Just think about this. If we represent the king who was killed for telling the truth, how can we expect anything greater than that? They'll hate us because they hated him. So the number one, the hope within foolishness is that even though we live in foolishness, God is still present with his people. The second hope in verse six, God will protect his people. Look at this. You evildoers frustrate the plans of the poor, but the Lord, covenant God of Israel, but Yahweh is their refuge. Why do the evildoers frustrate the plans of the poor? Because they are corrupt and greedy. We already saw that in the beginning, right? Out of their corruption, out of their greediness, out of their desire to take more than that is theirs, they are making life harder for anybody they can subjugate, i.e. the poor. But Yahweh is the refuge. That word refuge literally means a place of safety. No matter who tries to steal from you, God is your safety. God is your safe place. That doesn't necessarily mean they're not going to take your stuff. And then we get to verse seven. The third hope within foolishness is that ultimate salvation comes from Israel. Now keep in mind, this is David talking during the United Monarchy period, all the way back, first second Samuel, first second Kings. And what does he say? Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion. Zion is another name for Israel. So he's saying is, oh, I can't, if you'd allow me to editorialize this verse, oh, Lord, I cannot wait for the day when you bring salvation for your people from your people. Until then, I'll wait for it. Until then, I'll savor it. I'll wait upon it. Because why? Because the second half of verse seven, when Yahweh restores his people, let Jacob rejoice. Let Israel be glad. There's your parallelism. That's why we talked about Jacob and Israel being the same guy. So what's the parallel here? In verse seven, David looks forward and he says there's going to come a day when God will bring salvation for Israel from Israel. And when that salvation is fulfilled, there will be endless rejoicing. Who is David talking about in verse seven? Jesus. But is he talking about Jesus's first incarnation or is he talking about Jesus's second coming? Right. He's talking about the part that we haven't seen yet either. So the same forward look, the same hopeful look that David looks into the future, we should also look into the future. And again, if you would allow me to editorialize verse seven here. Oh, the day that salvation in Christ comes and is fulfilled in Israel, when the Lord restores his people, we will worship. That's what he's saying. When that day comes, when Jesus returns, the evildoers will be in terror. But the people of God will be in triumph and we will rejoice and we will worship because that salvation that was looked forward to all the way back when David was king. Is still the salvation you and I are waiting for today. So many times we think about church and we're stuck in our American mindset of church buildings, steeples, bricks, worship teams, sound, light, live streaming. You realize the people of God worship in almost every other country on the planet, right? And there are countries in this world today that persecute Christians. There are countries in this world today that murder Christians. There are countries in this world today that the Bible is an illegal document. You don't think those people are waiting for the King of Kings and Lord of Lords to come back and install his rule and say, no, let my people rejoice. Stop hampering their worship. Stop holding back their worship. And this is usually the point where a lot of people like to dog the American church because we're so blessed and we're so distracted by our blessing. And I think that's true. We are super blessed. But here's what I think. I think our blessing is actually a distraction from what's our real problem. And here's here's this is just my personal opinion. I think the greatest problem with the church in America is apathy. We're so comfortable. We don't know what right I have protected by the First Amendment for my right to worship. So I don't know what it means to pray that my church is allowed to worship. Now, because I lived being a pastor through covid. Yeah, I totally do. Especially when I lived in Virginia and the government would whether the governor of Virginia would he like issue statements like every single week trying to tell churches what they could and couldn't do. And I had to sit down with the elder team and we had to read them all the time. And we had to understand where is that line between biblical civil disobedience and going our governing authorities because both are biblical. Like that was my only taste of what it must feel like to be a Christian in foreign soil where you're not protected by the blessing of this country. We are not protected that we're just allowed to walk down the street and say the name of Jesus whenever we want. Nobody's going to slit my throat for it. We got to realize that that's just as dangerous. That's just as insidious of a squashing of the gospel as a country where you're not allowed to speak the name of Jesus. What's the difference between not being allowed to speak the name of Jesus and not caring if we speak the name of Jesus? Isn't the outcome still the same? The outcome is the gospel is not shared because this group people is not allowed to and this group people just doesn't care. The outcome is still the same. And that's why I think we need to get to the end of verse seven, which is where we rejoice. So let me bring this in for landing because I know communion helps that makes the service run a little long. So here's your outline. Verse one tells us that the source of human foolishness is the rejection of God and his authority in your life. The effects of that rejection are a loss of understanding about reality, corruption of your purpose and the mistreatment of God's people. The hope that exists within that foolishness that we all have to live in is that God is present with his people. God protects his people and God is coming back for his people. Thank you.