Well, good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. For all of you who are worshiping with us here in our Wilmington campus and all of you who are online, thank you for being a part of our family and worshiping with us today. Today is a little bit different. We have a standalone sermon. Because I have kind of a one Sunday before we get to Christmas. And so I was trying to figure out what could we put on a single Sunday and have a standalone sermon. So we are going to be looking at the book of 2 John. So if you want to find it, it's way at the back of your Bible. 1st, 2nd, 3rd John, Judean Revelation. However, this gives us a wonderful opportunity to get back to something that we have done a lot. But that you're a little bit out of practice with. And that's the big Bible story. So while you're listening to 2 John, I would like to review the big Bible story with you. And we're going to get this on video because several people have asked, Hey, can we get a video of our church doing the big Bible story? So if you know the answers, I need you to call them out. Nice and big and loud. So here we go. Here is the big Bible story. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And onto the earth, he planted a garden at a place called Eden. Into Eden, he put two human beings, Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve chose their desires over God's design. And they are thrust out of the garden. They have their first two children, Cain and Abel. Unfortunately, sin runs rampant through humanity. It begins to spread to the point that God regrets that he has made human beings. And he's going to send a flood. But in order to bring salvation from the consequences of that flood, He selects a single individual. And he says, You are still righteous. You're going to build me a boat. We're going to call it the Ark. And through you, animal life that breathes air will be saved. That man's name was? Noah. Through Noah and his sons and their wives, humanity gets a restart. Then we get to Genesis chapter 12. And God chooses another man living in the land of Ur of the Chaldeans. And he says, I will be your God and you will be my people. I will bless those who bless you. I will curse those who curse you. I will bring a nation from you. And from that nation, I will bless the world. And God changed that man's name to? Abraham. Abraham. And he is the first forefather, the first patriarch of Old Testament Israel. Abraham then has two sons. And the covenant promise is communicated to the younger of his two sons named? Isaac. And Isaac likewise has sons. And the covenant promise is repeated again to? Jacob. Jacob. So Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, they are the three patriarchs of Old Testament Israel. And then Jacob has like a lot of kids. He's got like a dozen. And the older brothers get jealous of the younger brother. And if you read the story, I definitely think the younger brother kind of had a little bit of a comment, to be honest, probably deserve to get knocked down a few pegs. I'm not really sure getting sold into slavery by your family is a good idea. But the older brother sell the younger brother into slavery in the land of Egypt. He then he starts as a slave. He rises through the ranks and he's in the right place at the right time for God to do a miracle which will ultimately save all of God's people. The younger brother's name who is sold into slavery, who becomes the high regent of Egypt, his name was? Joseph. And that's just the book of Genesis. We get to the end of the book of Genesis and Jacob and his sons and his grandchildren, they all move into the land of Egypt. But Egyptians don't like shepherds. They think them to be very dirty or very disgusting. And so they have to place them kind of on the bat 40 and for double extra extra star points. What's the name of the land that Pharaoh places Israel in within Egypt starts with a G. Goshen. That's right. Places them in the land of Goshen. And that ends the book of Genesis. God's people are blessed while in the Egyptian incubator. They begin to grow. They get to multiply. They begin to become very wealthy. And along comes a Pharaoh who did not remember what God did through Joseph for the kingdom of Egypt. And he enslaves God's people and they cry out for a deliverer under the oppression of slavery. The Egyptians are slaughtering their babies and drowning them in the Nile. And God hears the cry for a deliverer. And he raises up a young man who is born a slave raised in the palace for 40 years, then leaves town and is taught to be a shepherd in the land of Midian for another 40 years. And then finally comes back as the blessed deliverer of Israel. That man's name was Moses. His older brother's name is Aaron. And his older sister's name is Miriam. And Aaron and Moses perform what we now call the 10 plagues of Egypt through the power of God. On their way out of town, Miriam, Moses' older sister, leads all of the women of Israel in worshipping God. And they get to the edge of a body of water. After having experienced all the miracles in Egypt, they reach the edge of this body of water. Pharaoh and his army are barreling down on them, chasing them down. And Moses takes his staff and he famously slams it into the water. And the water stands up on both sides and they cross on dry ground. The name of the body of water is the Red Sea. And the children of Israel walk across the Red Sea on dry ground. They make it to the other side. And God intends for them to go to the promised land, the land of Canaan. He intends for them to be saved from Egypt and to go directly into the land that he promised Abraham more than 400 years ago. But they have a disobedience problem. They reach the foot of a specific mountain. And Moses goes up the mountain to talk with God and ultimately bring down the law. See, the children of Israel moved into Egypt as a family. They come out of Egypt as a nation. They're at the foot of this particular mountain. Moses goes up. They receive the law. Or Moses receives the law. He comes down and he finds them worshipping a golden calf, worshipping an idol. The name of the mountain on which the law is received is Mount Sinai. So God is displeased with his children and with Aaron specifically, who was Moses' brother, who spoke to Pharaoh, saw the miracles, and yet still led the children of Israel into idolatry. Because of the idolatry, they now have to wander in the wilderness. The entire generation who were adults during the time of the Exodus story, who experienced the plagues, who walked across in dry ground, the adults who were in charge, they had to die. And rather than strike them dead, they wander in the wilderness for 40 years and most of them die either from plagues or from old age. They then make it to the land of Canaan and they have to cross again on dry ground. This is the part most people forget. So they make it to the land of Canaan and there's a river that they have to cross. It's kind of a pretty famous name. And they make it to the side of this river and there's a young man who's now leading them. Who is the name of the young man who took over leadership after Moses? Joshua. Joshua leads the children of Israel to the edge of this particular river. And when the priests who are carrying the Ark of the Covenant set their toes into the river, the river itself stops flowing. And just like they crossed the Red Sea on dry ground, they crossed this river on dry ground. The name of that river is the River Jordan. I heard somebody say the River Jordan. They crossed the Jordan on dry ground and now they have moved into the land of Canaan. Joshua then begins to lead them in taking the land. There's some good. There's definitely a lot of bad. The Book of Joshua. They make a lot of mistakes, but ultimately they move in. And I would love to tell you that they just began to live obediently and we can fast forward to the New Testament. Unfortunately, anybody who's read the Old Testament knows that's not the case. They move into the land of Canaan and they begin to just do whatever they want to do. That this reaches the Book of Judges. The Book of Judges is typified by a single statement where everyone did what was right in their own eyes, their own own ways, own eyes. Everybody did what was right in their own eyes. They decided for themselves what's good, bad or indifferent. Kind of the same problem we had all the way back in Eden recreated now in the Book of Judges. They continue to do whatever they want instead of what God wants. And they ultimately lead to rejecting all of God's authority by asking him for something that they were never supposed to have. They reject God's authority and they ask for a king. They ask for a human king. They want a king like all the other nations have. And so God says, fine, if this is what you want, this is not my problem. If this is what you want, this is not my design for you. It's not my desire for you. But if it's what you want, I will allow you to make this choice. And I will give you a human king. Just understand this. He's going to tax you a lot. He's going to put your sons into the military and he's going to put your daughters into his service and into his harem. That's what he's going to do. And the first king selected for the United Monarchy of Israel's name is Saul, followed by David, followed by Solomon. Saul, David, Solomon, the only three kings who are over the United Kingdom of Israel. After Solomon, what happens? Civil war. Civil war, that's right. Civil war happens and God's kingdom is fractured into two pieces. There is the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. And this is the way they exist for the whole middle of the Old Testament. There's the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. How many tribes are in the northern kingdom of Israel? Ten. Ten. How many tribes are in the southern kingdom of Judah? Two. Two, that's right. And ten plus two equals? Twelve. Twelve, that's how they know they're all there. Right? So they continue to live as two separate nations fighting different battles and sometimes fighting one another. And they still cannot obey God. And God finally says, listen, you guys need a time out. I told you when you moved into this promised land that the price for living in my grace was your obedience. And they continue to reject God and God says, fine, it's time to put you in a time out. And God uses an external pagan nation in 722 BC. And they come in and they invade the northern kingdom of Israel and they carry them away into captivity. The name of the pagan nation that defeated Israel is? Assyria. Assyria, that's right. And then Assyria falls to another up and coming pagan nation. Assyria falls to? Babylon. Babylon. Babylon then finally in 586 BC comes in and invades the southern kingdom of Judah and carries the rest of God's people into captivity. That's the story of Daniel. Daniel is in fact one of those young men who is carried off into captivity in Babylon. Jeremiah's ministry in Jerusalem takes place at this time. Now all of God's people are in Babylon. They're in captivity. They will be there for how many years? Seventy. Seventy. No, no, not 400 yet. They're in their captivity for 70 years. Jeremiah says, guys, you're going to be here for 70 years. Settle in. Marry your sons. Marry your daughters. Plant gardens. Do good for the city. But I will come back for you. When the 70 years comes to its conclusion, God brings in a third pagan nation to overthrow and destroy Babylon. The name of the nation that destroyed Babylon is? Persia. God brings in the Persians. They defeat the Babylonians. In fact, that's at the end of the book of Daniel. Daniel actually served in both the Babylonian court and the Persian court. King Cyrus of Persia allows everyone to go home. And there's actually three different times where people come home from exile. There's also some who stayed. There's your story of Esther. Esther takes place during the Persian period. Mordecai was in the Persian court. Esther was ultimately becomes queen of Persia. Artaxerxes is like the same guy from the movie 300. So same time period over there. Right. So that's Persia. Then everybody comes home. They rebuild. They rebuild the temple. They restart being God's people in God's land. This gets us to the end of the Old Testament where God sends them more prophets and says, hold on. I will send you my promised one, my anointed one. The Hebrew word is Messiah, which in English is Messiah. I will send you a Messiah. And hold on. You'll know that I'm going to send you a Messiah because I'm going to send someone ahead of him. Right. Then we reach the time between the Old Testament and the New Testament. How many years of history happened between the end of Malachi and the beginning of Matthew? Four hundred years. Four hundred years go by where God has not spoken to his people. He's not brought new scripture. He's not sent new prophets. Now that doesn't mean history wasn't happening. There's a lot of history that happens between the Old Testament and the New Testament. The Persians eventually go, by the way, they're defeated by a guy from Medina who ultimately has a son named Alexander who does some really great stuff. Alexander rises. He makes a giant empire. He dies very young. Alexander's empire is cracked and fractured by all his generals. One of the generals starts what's called the Seleucid Empire and they conquer the area of Judea. So now the Jews are free for a little while and now they're conquered again by the Seleucids. They have a bunch of rebellions. They're free for like one hundred and twenty years. And then in comes these dudes called the Romans and the Romans ultimately take over the entire Mediterranean world. So by the time of the New Testament, all of that history has happened. God's people are again in their promised land, oppressed by pagan oppressors, and they cry out to God, where is your Messiah? Where is our promised one? Before you make it into the New Testament, you have to know there's this huge expectation. When will God send us his promised one? And God breaks his 400 year silence by sending an angel into the temple to speak to a priest who is chosen by law. Holy of Holies burning incense before the Lord. And he shows up to this priest and he says, yo, bro, my New International Bill version, yo, bro, you're going to have a son. He's going to be very special. He will prepare the way for the Lord. The name of the priest who hears the angels prophecy is Zechariah. Zechariah's son, the promised forerunner is John the Baptist. John the Baptist is the last of the Old Testament prophets, even though his story takes place in the New Testament. He is the final forerunner. Then God sends another angel to a young woman pledged to be married to a guy. And before they can be married, before they can come together, she is found to be pregnant by the Holy Spirit. And the angel tells her, the one that you carry will be the son of God. He will save his people from their sins. The name of the young woman who's visited by an angel is Mary. The name of her son, kind of a big deal, is Jesus. That's right. Jesus comes onto the scene, born in about 4 BC, probably the winter of 5 BC into 4 BC, give or take right there. He's born onto the scene. He's born in a small town called, I know we haven't studied Christmas yet, but he's born in Bethlehem, right? He's born in Bethlehem. He's born in Bethlehem. There's a star in the sky. The shepherds show up, kind of a big deal, right? Then ultimately, Jesus' stepdad, right? Jesus' earthly dad, whose name is Joseph. They take them into Egypt for a little while. He grows up. The majority of Jesus' childhood is not in the Gospels because it wasn't relevant to his mission. He grows up. He grows in wisdom. He grows in knowledge. We have a scene where he's 12 years old at the temple speaking to the priests. And then the next big event happens. Jesus steps to the River Jordan, and he's baptized by his cousin relative. I'm not really sure where the edge is. John the Baptist. And this begins his earthly ministry. And he's filled with the power of the Holy Spirit. And he does miraculous things. And he teaches about the coming kingdom of God. And you would think after desiring their Redeemer, they would say, oh, that's such a great thing. But ultimately, spoiler alert, they don't really like Jesus that much. The religious leaders reject him. He's crucified on a cross. And he's buried on Friday, April the 7th of A.D. 30. And three days later on that Sunday morning, I'll say sometime between 4 a.m. and 7 a.m., the world is rock and the resurrection happened. And Jesus rises from the grave. But he doesn't leave the earth yet. How many days does Jesus remain on earth post-resurrection teaching his disciples about the kingdom of God? How many days? Forty. For 40 more days, he teaches and then he goes and he ascends. He says, but wait, don't go anywhere yet, guys. There's a holiday coming in about 10 days. I want you to go back, stay in Jerusalem. I have a gift for you. When you receive that gift, I know you had my training for three years now, but you need this gift to do the job. The name of the holiday that's 10 days after the ascension is Pentecost. Everybody's in town in Jerusalem. And what major event happens on Pentecost in A.D. 30? What happens to the church? What comes down? The Holy Spirit comes down and the church as you and I know it is born on Pentecost Sunday, on A.D. 30. Damn. Christianity starts. Peter walks downstairs. Everybody's upstairs speaking in tongues. Peter walks downstairs, preaches a sermon. Three thousand people get saved. And Christianity as you and I know it began right there in A.D. 30. And it begins to grow and it begins to spread. Jesus in the beginning of the book of Acts recorded it saying Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria ends of the earth. So Christianity starts spreading. Within 18 to 24 months of the resurrection, so this is by A.D., like mid A.D. 32, God selects one more man. And he appears to him while he's traveling on the road outside Damascus. And he speaks to him and he says, Why are you persecuting me and my people? And this man falls down and he says, Lord, I'm going to die. And he says, Lord, I don't know who you is, but I'm definitely not trying to persecute you. Again, that's the Bill version. He didn't actually say it that way. The name of the final apostle called by Jesus on the Damascus road is Saul. And God changes his name to Paul. And the apostle Paul becomes the apostle to the Gentiles. The apostle Paul wrote more letters of the New Testament than any other author, but he did not write more of the New Testament. Largest bulk of the New Testament is written by the only Gentile author of scripture who was a doctor before he became a historian. And his name is Luke. Luke actually travels with Paul on his missionary journey. So if Paul's converted in A.D. 32, he begins to travel. He has three missionary journeys. He writes the letters that we now have in the New Testament. Paul dies A.D. 64. Christianity still continues to grow. But Paul dies in A.D. 64. Christianity begins to grow. We begin to be persecuted by the Romans. The Caesars begin to take us and kill us because we are not bowing down. Christians believe there is one king and his name is Jesus, and we refuse to worship pagan Caesars as God. And so that puts us in a very bad light in the Roman kingdom. So we follow through as the first century begins to play out. We pass through Nero. He burns down the town and he persecutes Christians. You make it all the way to Emperor Domitian, who's in charge like I think late 80s all the way to about 95. There's one apostle left of the original. One guy left. They tried to boil him in oil. That didn't work. When that didn't work, Domitian sent him into exile on the island of Patmos. He gets a revelation from God while on that island and writes what is now known as the last book of the Bible, Revelation. The name of the apostle who walked with Jesus, who survived to the end of the first century, who was exiled on Patmos and ultimately wrote four books of the New Testament. His name is John. John writes the Gospel of John, the letters of 1st, 2nd, 3rd John, and also the book of Revelation. And by the end of the first century, so Domitian dies in like AD 96. John leaves Patmos after Domitian is dead because that means my exile is over and tradition has that he moved back to Ephesus, one of the churches that he loved. And he dies of old age in Ephesus, round about the beginning of the second century. That's the Bible story from beginning to end. That's where you and I come from. That's our history. Now, the reason it was convenient for me to go all the way to the end today is we're going to be studying the book of 2nd John. So I'd like to turn your attention to the catalyst app. So those of you have it, please do me a favor and pull out the app. If you're watching online, you can go to catalyst 302.com slash app and you can download our app from whichever app store is your phone's favorite choice. I would highly recommend getting it right because you can try to install the wrong one. It's not going to work. But if you go into our app, you'll see a blue square that says sermon notes. I want you to see the sermon notes for two reasons. Number one, especially today, since we're studying a book of the Bible, I've left a lot of details for you here that are not necessarily going to be on the screen. The screens are for me to talk about scripture. But the rest of my notes are here in the catalyst app for you to have you scroll down to the bottom of the page. You can email them to yourself. Even if you're joining us online, this is right there for you. So I'd like you to go into the catalyst app. Follow along with me in the notes. Also in the notes is where the question button is a catalyst. I like to answer questions. If you have a question about something that I've taught this morning or something that I say, I want you to feel free to ask that question. The button to ask the question is in the notes in the app, and that's where it will remain. So now that we understand our history, we understand where we're at. Let me give you the quick background on the book of Second John. First, let's talk about the author. I've already mentioned it, but the author is the Apostle John. In this letter, he is identifying himself as the elder. In fact, the word is presbyterous, the same word we use for eldership today. Likely, I think he's referring to the fact that. Let's see if this is 96. He was probably born. So he's I mean, wow, he's like Jim level old. I mean, he's due. He's up there, right? He's probably not only referring to his status as an apostle in the church. He's also referring to his older age. Now, there is an argument to be made. Maybe John wrote this letter in the 60s and not in the 80s or 90s. I don't I don't particularly subscribe to that. I studied it. I read it. I it makes more sense that he wrote these along the same time that he wrote Revelation, which is during Domitian's reign, not during Nero's reign. So I'm going to say the audience is a local church. In the first century, which is identified as the chosen lady. I'll get into that when we get into the text, but that's the audience. So he's writing as the elder. His audience is a local church being identified as a chosen lady. The date for this letter is approximately 80, 85 to 100. The location. Where is John writing when he writes this letter? If he writes before Domitian dies, then he's on Patmos. If he writes it after Domitian dies, then he's in Ephesus. That makes sense. I can't know that with expert certainty. So the best thing I can tell you is if he's writing in the window of 85 to 100, then that means he's either on the island of Patmos, the same place he wrote Revelation, or he's now staying with his friends in Ephesus. It's basically kind of he's like apostolic retirement community. And then the setting. This is super important. The setting for the book of second John false teachers denying the divinity of Jesus were taking advantage of Christian hospitality. So here's the picture I want you to see in your mind, whether he's writing from from Patmos or Ephesus doesn't really make a difference because we're talking about the situation at the church that he's writing to its common practice at the end of the first century for traveling teachers to the church. For traveling orators to come to a town to do their deal, do their thing. And while they are in your town, either preaching or storytelling, it's common practice for the wealthy in that town to house the traveling minister. We still have vestiges of this today in America. We have traveling evangelists. And when they travel to a town, it's very common for them to stay with other Christians in that town. The same thing that happens today was happening in the first century. The problem is in the first century, there are people who are traveling, claiming to represent Jesus, but they are teaching that Jesus is not God. And John is going and so what they're doing is they're traveling into town and they're going to hit up Megan and Jesse because he knows the traveling teachers know Megan and Jesse have a reputation in the town. He knows the traveling teachers know Megan and Jesse have a reputation for being welcoming, for being loving, for being supportive. And so these traveling teachers who are teaching false teaching, they're going to go to Megan and Jesse and go, listen, I'm a traveling teacher of the gospel. Help me put together a crusade. Let me stay in your home. And they would feed them and they would help fundraise for them. And yet they're teaching bad thing. This is the situation to which John is writing this letter. Does everybody understand where we're going? All right, so here we go. First things first, we're going to read the book of Second John. Don't freak out, Jerry. It's only 13 verses. All right. This is one of those odd moments where we get to say we studied an entire book of scripture at church in one sermon. So here we go. The book of Second John, starting in verse one. The elder to the chosen lady by God and to her children whom I love in the truth and not I only but also all who know the truth because of the truth which lives in us and will be with us forever. Grace, mercy and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Father's Son, will be with us in truth and love. It has given me great joy to find some of your children walking in the truth just as the Father commanded us. And now, dear lady, I am not writing a new command but one we have had from the beginning. I ask that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk in obedience to his commands. As you have heard from the beginning, his command is that you walk in love. I say this because many deceivers who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh have gone out into the world. Any such person is the deceiver and the Antichrist. Watch out that you do not lose what we have worked for but that you may be rewarded fully. Anyone who runs ahead and does not continue in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever continues in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them shares in their wicked work. I have much to write to you but do not want to use paper and ink. Instead, I hope to visit you and talk with you face to face so that our joy may be complete. The children of your sister who is chosen by God send their greetings. That's it. That's the whole book. That's why the genre of what we're studying right now is a personal letter. You can feel the love and the care and the concern that John has for his audience. So if you're looking at your notes, I've given you a structured outline of the book of 2 John. There is a greeting in verses 1-3. There's the calling in verses 4-6. There's the problem in verses 7-11. And then there's ultimately the salutation in verses 12-13. So let's dig into this now and let's take a look. So first we start the greeting. Here's the greeting. From the elder to Christians who know the truth. The elder, that's John, to the lady chosen by God, stop. There is a debate between theologians as to the identity of the lady. You get two choices. I'm going to preach it one way, but I welcome you to disagree with me if you would like the other way. I'll try to make it relevant when the points come out. So you get two choices on the chosen lady. Either A, John is speaking to a specific chosen lady. Be like John writing to Lisa. That's possible. And if that is true, that John is writing to one specific woman, then the next words and to her children whom I love in the truth, refer specifically to Lisa's children, the children of Lisa's home. However, I am of the opinion that it's not a single lady. Anybody got Beyonce in their head right now? Yeah, right. I'm of the opinion it's not that one single mother. I think the chosen lady is a lustrative way of writing to a specific church. Now, why would John do this? Why would he not just say, hey, to all my bros out in Ephesus? Well, let's think about when he's writing. He's writing under an intense time of persecution. Nero killed Christians. Caligula was really crazy. Then we get to demission, and demission is exiling Christians left and right. Maybe, just maybe, he doesn't want to risk outing other Christians if the letter is caught in transit. So he uses this term, the chosen lady and her children, and he gives it to the courier knowing the courier knows who to get it to. If I did that, I could write to the Church of Catalysts, and I'm going to trust that Jim knows how to get there. So Jim knows who the chosen lady is. But if Jim gets caught with the letter, then the only life I'm risking is Jim. I don't feel bad about that. I've really got to protect Lisa, right? We've got to make sure Lisa stays. Jim's expendable, Lisa's not. But do you see why I think that? I think it makes sense given the history, given the setting, and given the problem that he's addressing, which is false teachers stealing from churches. To me, it makes more sense that the chosen lady is a covering for a specific church that we don't know which church it is. Could be the church at Ephesus. Could be the church at Philippi. Could be the church at Thessalonica. Could be the church with fill in the blank of any first century city. But if I'm right, and if it is a church, not a woman, then who is to her children? That means all the people who are in that church, right? If the chosen lady is Catalyst Community Church, then we are all her children. So that's what I think the audience is. And he says, So whoever the chosen lady is, other people know this woman or this church. Then we get to verse 2. He's beginning to lay up his argument. Who's the truth? Who said, I am the way, the truth, and the life? Jesus. Don't forget that John was a walking, talking, living, breathing apostle. He walked with Jesus. He was there in the Garden of Gethsemane. He was there when Jesus, he was even in the chosen three when Jesus did some of those more private ministry moments. You are listening to the writing of a man who walked with Jesus himself. He knows the truth, and that's why he can say, which lives in us and will be with us forever. Then he ends the greeting in verse 3. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Father's son. This is where the theology starts. Don't over, don't just blow past the way he chose to lay this up. If we just said grace, peace, and mercy from God, that makes sense, right? God is the author of grace. God is the source of mercy. He is the King of peace. That would make sense. But notice in verse 3, he makes Jesus equal to God. What does he say? Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, meaning the grace, the mercy, and the peace that comes from God is the same as the grace, the mercy, and the peace that comes from Jesus. Why? Because Jesus is the Father's son. The very thing that John watched the Pharisees reject Jesus over, making themselves equal to God, is right here in the greeting in verse 3. He's making Jesus equal to God, will be with us in truth and love. The outpouring of truth automatically comes love. And I would say that's still the Christian responsibility today. We are to walk in truth and we are to walk in love and we are to hold those two in balance. When you're so truthful that you're not loving, you don't represent Jesus. And when you're so loving that you're not truthful, you don't represent Jesus. Jesus is the embodiment of these two characteristics to their epitome. Jesus is max love and max truth. That's the greeting. Then we get to the calling that starts here in verse 4. True Christians walk in truth and in love. Verse 4. It has given me great joy to find some of your children walking in truth, just as the Father commanded us. Now not only do you start to see his theology, you're starting to see him lay the groundwork for addressing the problem. The problem is all the way back here in 4 where, again, if it's a single lady, some of Lisa's kids are walking with Jesus and some of Lisa's kids are not. If it's Catalyst Community Church, some of our people are walking with Jesus and some are with Jim. Sorry, I cannot risk. He's so perfectly seated right here in the middle of the room. So John responds, it's given me great joy to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as the Father had commanded us. But there are some of the children of the chosen lady who are not walking in truth. They are not walking as the Father commanded. Verse 5. And now, dear lady, so it's either Lisa or the church as a whole. I am not writing a new command, but one we have had from the beginning. I ask that we love one another. John is reminding the audience, my friends, my brothers and sisters, my Adelphoi, my family in God, why are we not loving each other? It's been this way from the beginning. And guess who would know? The guy who was literally one of the first four apostles to be called. Remember the story of Jesus? The fishers of men story that we all ate goldfish in Sunday school, right? Jesus is walking along the shoreline and he sees fishermen out there. He says, come follow me and I will make you fishers of men. Peter and his brother Andrew, they loan Jesus the boat. He sets out. They catch the fish. They catch so many fish, the boats are going to capsize, and they call to their friends at the shore. Who are the friends? John and his brother James. Jesus has been or John has been with Jesus from the beginning. If there was anyone who knew that Jesus is command from the beginning was to love one another, it would be him. And yet he has to remind the chosen lady and her children to love one another. Verse six. And this is love. I love this verse, man. And this is love. So not only is John going to remind the chosen lady and her children, Aaron, we need to love one another. But just so you don't get it twisted, here's the definition. And this is love. That we walk in obedience to his command. As you have heard from the beginning, his command is that you walk in love. So when we say our job is to walk in love, John further dials it in. We are to walk in obedience to his commands. Now what is one of Jesus' commands? Love one another. So he's really doubling down on the idea that not only are we to walk, meaning our love for one another is not a feeling. It's not a hallmark card. It's not a here let me grab you a soda because I love you. No. It is an action. I will walk in love. As I live, I will treat you this way. So that gets me to the calling. All true Christians are to walk in love. Now don't forget the fact that John is addressing false teaching. He's about to. His foundation or his reason for addressing false teaching is some of the chosen lady's children are no longer walking right. They're no longer being loving. Which leads me to a really interesting thought. False teaching leads directly to a lack of love and a loss of obedience. When we give in to false teaching, when we divert from the teaching that Jesus left for us to follow, when we divert from the word of God. It very quickly will lead to a lack of love and a loss of obedience. Love is a loss of obedience. and a loss of obedience. Love is living obediently to God's Word. Now we get to the problem, which begins here in verse 7. I say this, meaning, children, I had to remind you that walking in love is walking in obedience because, verse 7, many deceivers who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ is coming in the flesh have gone out into the world. Stop. Let me address the first sentence and then we'll get to the second sentence. So notice that these people who do not acknowledge, meaning they deny the truth of Jesus as coming in the flesh, what does that mean? They are denying the reality that Jesus is both God and man. Now this is early, I mean this is late first century, not early second century. So those of you who know who the Gnostics are, this is probably proto-Gnosticism, but I don't think it's full blown Gnosticism yet. Those of you who have never heard the word Gnosticism, Gnosticism comes from the Greek word gnosis, meaning secret language. There are people in the second century who taught, you know what, it's super great that you read your Bible, it's super great that you know all that, but there's this secret stuff that helps you know Jesus better. Those were the Gnostics. They had secret knowledge that's not in Scripture that you had to get only from them, and only then could you please God and you could live rightly. The Gnostics come on the scene in the second century. This is probably a proto-Gnostic heresy where they are denying that Jesus is God. They are denying God came in the flesh, and it's not because, like in a modern day setting, we would deny God because we don't believe there is a God. No, they believe that anything spiritual is so pure and so clean that the spiritual cannot be merged with the physical, which is ultimately what leads to like your Gnostic dualism, those of you guys who remember those heresies when we looked at them. This is the beginnings of that, where they cannot accept that Jesus is God if Jesus was really human. It's got to be one or the other. Either he's human or he's God. He can't be the God man. So John is challenging this directly since he was one of the apostles to walk with Jesus. They are denying or do not acknowledge Jesus Christ coming in the flesh, and they have gone out into the world. This is your traveling preacher. There are preachers traveling at the end of the first century using Christian hospitality, taking Megan's good cooking and Jesse's good money, and denying the divinity of Jesus, denying the incarnation, which is so interesting that I happened to pick this book not realizing its connection with Christmas. They are denying that Jesus was born the Son of God. That's what they're denying, and they're traveling at this time. Look at what he says at the end of verse 7. Any such person, meaning any person who denies that Jesus is God, is a deceiver and the anti-Christ, literally anti-Christos or anti-Messiah. To deny that Jesus is God is to deny that he is the Messiah. Flat out. That's where that rolls. If you deny that Jesus is God, you also deny that Jesus is the Messiah that God sent. Then we get to verse 8. Watch out! Watch out for what? That you do not lose what we have worked for. That you may be rewarded fully. That watch out kind of translates to be on the lookout, look carefully, look and understand. And I need to say here, do not lose does not refer to their salvation. Do not lose, he's not referencing salvation. Because salvation is not something that we work for. It's something that we receive. So you cannot be, salvation cannot be in the scope of meaning for verse 8. Watch that you do not lose what we have worked for. And then he explains that you may be rewarded fully. This is that Bema judgment, reward in heaven. So there's a lot of times when we say don't lose stuff, in Christian circles we think that means lose your salvation. It doesn't. Once you're saved, you are guaranteed to be in the kingdom of Christ. But the rest of your life becomes earning the rewards that you will receive in heaven. You can totally lose rewards by doing a bad job. You can't lose your citizenship. Why? Because I was born a citizen of this country. I was born an American citizen. I can't lose it because I was born into it. You know why I can't lose my heavenly citizenship? Because I was born again into it. And I was born again into his kingdom. And that citizenship stands. But when I make it to heaven, I'm definitely going to have to stand before the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And he's going to open the book of the life of Bill. And after he's done having a gigantic laugh in the opening chapters, because there's a lot there to be, to really be, whoo. He's going to evaluate my service to his kingdom during this life. And that is where the rewards will be. That is what he's referring to. He is not referring to salvation in verse eight. Watch out that you may not, that you do not lose what we have worked for, that you may be rewarded fully. That's that well done, my good and faithful servant moment. That you will be rewarded fully. Verse nine. Anyone who runs ahead and does not continue in the teaching of Christ does not have God. This right here is the key sentence to where he's challenging the false teachers of his day. Runs ahead is, it's not a bad translation of the term, but it's deceptive in our language. When you run ahead, what you literally do is you overstep. Right? Let me just read the verse, but change out that word. Anyone who oversteps does not continue in the teaching of Christ. Anyone who steps out of bounds does not continue in the teaching of Christ. Anyone who goes too far does not continue in the teaching of Christ. All of those are good, effective translations of what this word means in our language. So notice he's addressing the false teachers of his day. They're going too far. They are going outside of or out of the bounds of what was the correct teaching from Christ. And what that mean? You don't have God. If you have stepped outside the bounds of right Christian teaching, you do not have God. And whoever continues in the teaching has both the father and the son. Notice the equality again. The son is equal to the father, father is equal to the son. That's the false teaching he's trying to combat. What is he saying here? He's saying, number one, I would say, he's saying that we should always test teaching before accepting it, me included. Please do not take my word for the book of 2 John. Go study, read, double check, check your sources. You want some recommendations, please. Don't take my word for it just because I'm wearing a coat and I stand behind a pulpit. Because there's a lot of people who can stand up here and say some really bad stuff, say some wrong stuff. I know because I would say at least two to three times a week, somebody's throwing me Instagram reels going, this can't be right. Right? Constantly, you should check. You should always check. Why? Because John is really clear. Anyone who steps outside of bounds, who oversteps, who goes too far, taking a teaching farther than it should, does not have God. Anyone who continues in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. All Christian teachers must be investigated, bar none. All Christian teaching must be compared to the truth of Scripture, bar none. There is no one, there is no Bible teacher or preacher or pastor or priest or pope or cardinal or any other religious word you want to throw in there that does not deserve to be investigated and compared to the truth of Scripture. That's where he's at right now. Then you get to verse 10. Anyone who comes to you, here's your traveling teacher, anyone who comes to you and does not bring this teaching, meaning the right teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. Now here's where the rubber meets the road in the first century context that we might struggle to see today. In the way their culture works, if Jerry and Jen are the traveling teachers and they're good teachers, they're right teachers, they're like the Priscilla and Aquila, then it's right for Megan and Jesse to open their home to hearing Jerry and Jen teach and disciple. That's right and that's good and that's bad. That's right and that's good and that's the way the body of Christ grows. But unfortunately we're still stuck with Jim. And Jim's out there and Jim's teaching some wild stuff that's way out of bounds. What John is saying, and I need to stress this, John is saying this, the Holy Spirit is saying this, I'm not saying this. I'm explaining what the Bible is saying. Anyone who comes to you and does not bring this teaching, or I could rephrase it, who comes to you teaching things that are against Scripture, that are against right teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. What this means in a contemporary context, welcome them literally means to greet them and to authorize that they are a part of our body. That's what that means. Greet is not just like, hey, Yusef, good to see you. You're looking good in that quarter zip today. That's greet in our culture. Greet in this word means to greet, to bring in, and to consider equal to. All of that is in that word greet. So John is saying, if anyone comes to you, any false teachers come to you, do not take them into your home, meaning do not support them. Don't give them Megan's delicious food. Definitely don't give them Jesse's delicious dollars. Right? But also, do not welcome them and treat them as equals to the rest of the body of Christ. Why? They're not equals because they're not teaching right things. So verse 10 has a lot of implications for us today. And if you weren't really sure about how hard this is going to hit, put your seat backs and tray tables upright, locked position. Everybody's about to be offended. Here's verse 11. Anyone who welcomes them, meaning calls them in, treats them as equals, and provides material support, shares in their wicked work. What does that mean? It means today, financially supporting false teachers, shares in their heresy. I wrote that sentence and went, oh, I better pick on Jim a lot or no one's going to like this sermon. That is the modern day application of John's statement here. If the first century false teachers are traveling around and their teaching is being propped up by the good-meaning, wealthy, clearly good-looking Jesses of the first century. See, when Jesse and Megan bring the false teacher in their house, they're not just feeding him. They're not just providing him a place to sleep. They are legitimizing his teaching through their support for everybody in the town who looks up to Jesse and Megan. When Jesse and Megan bring the false teacher in their house, Jesse and Megan are elevating that person, and they're legitimizing their teaching, and they're saying this is a person worth following, this is a person worth supporting, this is a person worth giving to. Why? Because that's why I brought them in my home. I wouldn't have brought them in my home if I didn't say this is us. This is good stuff. Here's the problem. By AD 85, I would submit that the majority of the New Testament has in fact been written. I mean, Paul died in 64, so that means all of Paul's letters are written pre-AD 64. Mark, I mean, even to be fair to the debate, Mark in the late 40s to mid-50s, Matthew and Luke being written no later than the 70s, although I think earlier, John's gospel probably around the same time, no later than maybe 85 to 90. So these documents that you and I now know as the New Testament, they've been written, they're being circulated, but we have no way to know if he's writing at Ephesus. We have no way to know how many letters are at Ephesus yet. Clearly they got the letter of the Ephesians, they were the first recipient, but did they get a copy of Philippians yet? Did they get a copy of James' letter from Jerusalem yet? Did they get a copy of Matthew and Mark's gospels yet? I can't tell you that. I can't promise you that. What I can say is John, even in his old age, and this is what's so beautiful to me, because I mean, obviously Jim's here, so I'm not the oldest guy in the room, but even in his old age, he's holding the flag. He's saying, this is Christ. This is the right thing to teach. And those people out there who've gone out among you, and they're sowing bad teaching, and they're teaching things that aren't biblical, don't support them. Don't bring them in your home. Don't make them equal in your church. Now this hits a modern day ear and go, well that's not very loving, is it? Right? I think, preacher, we should all just get along and recognize our differences. Okay? I can recognize that we're different, and there are certain differences that are allowed within unity. Right? Unity is not uniformity. I say that all the time. You're welcome to have different theological opinions than me, because I'm the pastor of this church does not mean you have to agree with me theologically. I can tell you for certain, there are people sitting in this room right now who we don't agree on every bit of scripture. My wife and I probably don't agree on every single bit of scripture, and yet I don't think that's a problem for my marriage. But we also have, remember, balancing truth and love? It's not loving to say everything is true, and it's not truthful to say everything is loving. There must be a balance between the two, and this is where the rubber has to meet the road. For John's first century audience, whichever church he's writing to, and for us today, we have to toe a line that there are things that are false teaching. And I mean inside the church and outside the church. I mean there are things that are being taught in the cultural marketplace that are opposed to Christianity. There are things being taught that claim to be Christian that are not Christian. There are entire groups of people in this country who have the name Jesus Christ on the side of their church who teach false teaching. I'm not saying I don't love those people. I'm not saying I don't want those people to be saved. But we don't need to gloss over when there are things being taught that are directly opposed to the truth of Christ. Because if we do that, we're no better than the first century church who Megan and Jesse are just out there supporting false teachers and helping challenge the gospel and the truth of Scripture. And I'm sorry that that's, you know, I'm not really sorry that that's what the Bible says. I'm sorry that I'm the one that's got to tell it to you like it is. I'm going to give it to you on a jaw because I would rather be told the truth straight up than, you know, twinkle toe around it and try to make it palatable. No, it's not palatable. There are such things as false teachers. Jesus is God, not one of many gods. He's the only God. Period. End of conversation. There are no phatons, right? You don't need to put your hands and be measured in order to go to the next life. Jesus is not the brother of the archangel. Jesus is not the archangel Michael born in the human form. That's false. Jesus is not brothers with Satan. They didn't play baseball together before the angelic fall. None of these things are true. And yet without saying all of the names of the false religions that are in our country, I just threw three of them out the door. Jesus is not brothers with Satan. Jesus is not the incarnate archangel Michael. And there is no such things as phatons flowing through your body that you need to be purified of in order to transcend to the next celestial planet. None of those things are true. You know what is true? There is a God. His name is Jesus. He died and He rose because He loves you. You're made in His image. And no matter how far you are from Him, He is in you because you're His image. And you can be made like Him through His death and through His resurrection and through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. All those things are true. But we need to understand going in, the main teaching here is that Jesus is both God and man. Then I get to the salutation, which is the closing verses of this book. I have much to write to you. I love that this is brief and he's like, yeah, I got more. I'm not writing it all right now. But I don't want to use paper and ink. I love this line. He says the same line in the book of 1 John. If you go back and read that, he also uses this line. I have much to write to you, but I don't want to use paper and ink. Instead, I hope to visit you and talk with you face to face so that our joy may be complete. Do you feel the love in that verse? He's saying, yes, I've got to correct you. Don't welcome false teachers. Don't give your money to false teachers. Don't make them equal to the body of Christ. But I love you. And it's because I love you that I tell you the truth. It's because I love you that I send you this warning. And there's so much more I want to say to you, but I don't want to write it. I don't want to send you a text. I don't want to send you an email. I want to talk to you face to face. I want to hug on you. I want you to sense my presence so that you know that you're heard and that you're seen and that I love you. And then we get down to verse 13, and here's again where your audience is going to matter. The children of your sister who is chosen by God send their greeting. So let's look at it both ways. If this verse is speaking of the singular lady, speaking just to Lisa, then the children of Lisa's sister are her nieces and nephews. In order for that to be true, John has to be with the nieces and nephews of Lisa in order to write that. Does that make sense? Is that possible? Well, sure, since we don't know whether he wrote from Patmos or from Ephesus, we don't really know if maybe he was staying with Lisa's nieces and nephews, and maybe they're just having a good time. That's possible. Let's look at it the other way. If the chosen lady is not a singular woman but a church, then who is the sister of a church? Another church. Who are the children of the other church? The members who go to that church. Now you just got to make a choice. Which to you feels more likely? John is writing this letter from the home of the actual nieces and nephews of Lisa writing to only Lisa, or John, is writing a letter in the presence of one first century church concealing not only their identity but the identity of the recipient here. To me, the second explanation seems a much broader scope. It seems to fit a little better. Considering the problem that he's addressing is welcoming false teachers, that problem could be in any church. We really think that Lisa is overly influenced by Jim, and they're the only house in the first century that welcomes in false teachers. Or is it more likely that it's not just Lisa, it's a whole church, and he's trying to warn all of them. Yeah. When you look at the problem, you look at the history, you look at the language, it does definitely feel like the chosen lady is a church, which is important when we got to 13, because that means John is writing in the presence of a different first century church. And that got me back to where is he writing? If he's writing in his latter years from Ephesus, then the sister church is the Ephesians. If he's writing before Domitian dies, then the sister church is whatever Christians were present on the island of Patmos when he wrote the book of Revelation. Does all of that make sense? Considering the language, considering the problem, I think it's more likely he's with another church, and he's writing to a different church, and he's keeping everybody protected by using this language. So how do I bring this in for a landing? How do I surmise this entire beautiful letter into a single sentence? Here it is. Here's your takeaway. Christians must live truth lovingly and not provide support for false teachers. Christians must live truth lovingly and also not provide support for false teachers. Those are two things that we can absolutely do today. We can absolutely be a group of people who live solidly on the line of truth and compassionately full out loving. We can do that. We can also make sure we judge the quality of the teaching that we listen to, especially today when you can catch all kinds of teachings right on these little boxes. It doesn't matter if you're watching on YouTube or the Instagram or the TikTok, whichever one you want to be on, there are plenty of good things out there and there are plenty of bad things out there. Please, please, please, please double check the quality of the teaching before you donate your money to a ministry. I mean that wholeheartedly as a person who's decided that my profession is teaching the Word of God as accurately as I can. Make sure you check. Does that mean that at the end of the day we shouldn't be loving, we shouldn't support traveling evangelists, we shouldn't support other ministries? Absolutely not. That's taking it too far. That's going ahead, stepping out of bounds. That's not what he's saying. But what he is saying is that if we are going to be Christians who walk in truth and in love, that means we need to not only know the truth well, we need to walk in it well, we need to love people well, but we need to make sure that when we provide our acknowledgement, our support, whether it's verbal support, monetary support, social currency, whatever it is, make sure that the things you're supporting are in line with the message of Christ. That's the book of 2 John. Does that make sense to everybody? All right. Mel, do I have any questions? All right. Could you please fire some questions up here? All right. Me, me, me, me. That's the sound my brain makes when it's not doing something. First, do the cities in the Bible all have only one church or are there sometimes multiple churches in the same city? Wonderful question. Thank you. In the first century, all Christians who lived in a single town worshiped together. The ancient Near East and in the Middle East today is very much a communal culture, not an individualist culture. In America and in the West, we have an individualist culture. You choose the church you go to based on your preferences. In the ancient Near East and many times in the Middle East, churches are all the Christians who live in an area. So all the Christians who live in Ephesus, that's the Ephesian church. All the churches who live in Philippi, that's the Philippian church. All the churches who live, or all the Christians who live in Laodicea, that's the Laodicean church. But to the questioner, you are correct. There is only one group of Christians worshiping together. Second question. I have read that the epistles of John are debated as canonical by some and others debate that they and Revelation were not written by the Apostle, but another John. Okay, fantastic. For those of you who are unfamiliar with the term, let me just clear it up. When this person says canonical, they mean belonging to the Canaanites. They mean belonging to the Canaanites. So let me just clear it up. When this person says canonical, they mean belonging to the Canaanites or belonging to Scripture. That's what the word canonical means. The word canon doesn't mean like piracy. Not that kind of canon. Canon in the Greek was a measuring stick or a ruler. It's the measurement of truth and goodness. So when it says, I have read that the epistles of John are debated as canonical by some and others debate that they and Revelation were not written by the Apostle, John, but another John. I will say absolutely that debate is had. As I was preparing for this message, I went back and I reread on the history, on the setting, on all of those things. I will say that if you look into it, I don't find, in fact, I really don't find the debate about especially the book of Revelation, I don't find the debate on which John wrote it to be really more substantive than when John wrote it. The debate whether Revelation is written during the Nero persecution in the 60s or the Demission persecution in the 70s and 80s, that debate is much more robust and has a whole lot more evidence to it. So I would say, yes, there are plenty of books of Scripture that have been debated on whether they belong in the Bible or not. So since it's not asked, but let me address it, how do we decide what are the right books to belong in the New Testament? This is how this works. Dispel the Dan Brown idea. They did not vote on what books belong in the New Testament. That is a lie that he invented to write the book, the Da Vinci Code. If you go back and look, you can Google it yourself. The Council of Nicaea met in 325 A.D. They did not vote on books of the Bible. They were talking about the divinity of Jesus. There was a guy named Arius, and he was teaching one thing that was false, and a guy named Nicholas, who was the guy Santa Claus is named after, Nicholas punched Arius in the face in the middle of church. That's why Santa's my favorite guy. But let's talk about how the books of the New Testament made it into the canon. Because the reality is, we have collections of canons long before 325 A.D. Here's what happened. The short Bill version of this story. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John start writing their Gospels, but they're not the first ones to write. Most likely, Paul is actually the first guy to write. Jesus rises on Sunday, April the 9th, A.D. 30. Paul gets saved within 18 to 24 months of the resurrection. Paul starts traveling. Paul starts writing. Likely, the first two books of the New Testament to be written are the book of Galatians, which was to all the churches in the area of Galatia, which meant immediately the letter had to be copied to deliver to all those other Christians, and maybe the book of James, Jesus' half brother James. As the New Testament letters are being written, they're being copied. And let's just say that Jim and Jerry, they live in Philippi. So y'all get Paul's letter to the Philippians. And Jen's like, bro, the Holy Spirit is all over this. I can recognize the hand of God. Because keep in mind, all of the first Christians who were Jews, they had a very clear understanding. When God does stuff, He writes stuff. Think about it. When the Exodus happened, we got the Sinaitic covenant. When they moved into Canaan and they rebelled again, they got prophets. When God does stuff, He writes stuff. So now that God has come on the scene and the Messiah has showed up, God's doing stuff, there's an expectation God's going to write stuff. We need to identify what is being written that is from God. So Jen reads the book of Philippians. And she's like, sister friend, girl, she's at the salon, and she's doing people's hair. And she's like, girl, have you read Paul? Man, he is throwing down. I can do all things through Christ. Let me get that girl for you. Right? So Jen starts making copies of the book of Philippians. And she starts sending it out. And she sends it to June and Steve. And she sends it to Lisa because Jim can't read. And she sends one over here to John. I'm just having a really good day with you. And so they start copying. And all of a sudden, John and Kathy, you guys live over in Ephesus. You get Paul's letter to the Ephesian. And John's in it. He's like, this is the Holy Spirit. More people need to read this. I'm going to send it to Jim and Lisa. I'm going to send it to Jerry and Jen. I'm going to send it to June and Steve. And so then the letter to Ephesus is getting copied, and it's getting sent to the other cities. And the letter of Philippians is getting copied, and it's getting sent to the other cities. And that's how Paul's letters got copied. That's how the Gospels got copied. That's how everything got copied. Make it to the end of the first century, maybe even the first 25 years of the second century. Jerry has to travel for work. And Jerry ends up traveling to Ephesus to meet with John. And you're traveling on a weekend, so you worship with John and Kathy. And you notice something. Wow, isn't it really interesting that even though John and Kathy live in Ephesus, and Jen and Jerry live in Philippi, we both recognize the Holy Spirit's writings, and they start making collections. And within the first, I would argue, maybe 100 years, all the Christians start collecting the same document. This is how the New Testament came about. It's actually one of the most miraculous things that we never talk about. The people of God who have the Spirit of God recognize in the Word of God the voice of God. And we as the Church collected these documents. Now, there are some, to the questioner, you are totally right. There are some that are debated. In the debate, here's the easy thing to do. Read the text and ask yourself, does this sound like the same Jesus in the Gospel? You go get the Gospel of Thomas, for instance, probably one of the earliest false gospels. Just read it. Just Google it. Google Gospel of Thomas and read the text. And trust me, Dan, you're going to be like, that's not the Jesus I know. It's so obvious. Go read the Gospel of Mary Magdalene, written hundreds of years later. It's so obvious. They don't match. Because the people of God possess the Spirit of God, and we can sense the voice of God in the Word of God. And it was us, the Christians, who made collections. And by the time of the Muratorian, it's a hard word for me, Muratorian canon, which is in the second century, almost all of the books of the New Testament that we have today were already collected and were being used in the different cities for worship. There was no meeting. There was no like, grand poobah, I'm going to vote. I'm going to take bets on which books make it in. The Spirit of God in the people of God recognized the voice of God in the Word of God, and we collected the New Testament scriptures, and we brought them together. It is a beautiful, beautiful portrait of the Holy Spirit in the people of God. We actually, as the people of God, notice the voice of God. So use that. Guess what? If you're a Christian, you have the Holy Spirit in you. Read the text for yourself. Don't take my word for it. Go look up the Gospel of Thomas, the Gospel of Peter, the Gospel of Mary Magdalene, and read it. And just ask yourself, does this sound like the Jesus I know of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John? Even seven of Paul's letters are accepted as completely authoritative and Paulian by atheists, New Testament scholars. That's one of the reasons I like that for apologetics. I like to rely on Paul's letters that even the atheists will accept as true, because then when they try to come at me and be like, well, you only believe that it's true because you're a Christian. I'm like, no, I believe it's true because it's true. I don't believe in gravity because I'm heavy. I believe in gravity because it's real. Mel, do I have any other question? Yep. Oh, there it is. It's like, woo, magic. If once we become believers, we are in the kingdom of heaven, what about what Revelation 3 says? So I'm going to have to admit, I don't have all of Revelation 3 on instant recall. So unless, I'll say it this way. To the questioner, if you can ask me this question on your Connect card. Oh, you're going to type something else? No, you're not. All right. The bubbles show up. I got really excited. My wife is getting a mess. Whoever the questioner is, whether you're here or online, being lukewarm. Oh, OK. It's about being lukewarm. What I'll say is true believers are automatically citizens of heaven and yet cannot be revoked. But there are people who pretend to be believers, who either pretend to act a certain way but don't have true trust and faith in their heart. Those are the lukewarm people because they're pretending. I would argue from my view of salvation, if you are truly saved, if you truly trust in Christ, then how do you know an apple tree is an apple tree? Because it grows apples. How do you know an orange tree is an orange tree? Because it grows orange. How do you know a Christian is truly a Christian? Because they bear fruit. That's kind of that parable of the soils. So I would say that if you are truly a Christian, you can't not become a Christian. I know there's a debate out there. And if you're in the camp that thinks you can lose your salvation, I'm happy to let you buy the coffee and we'll go at it and we could debate. I disagree with that camp. But when it talks about the people who are lukewarm being spat out of their mouths, I don't believe that's actual believers. I believe that's people who are in church. Let me say it this way. There are people who have churchianity and there are people who have Christianity. There are people who live for Christ and there are other people who play the church game. And I don't like the church game people. I like to live for Jesus people. And then last question. If you were deceived and did not realize the travelers, or what if you were received, deceived and did not realize the travelers were not teaching God's word? Mel, help me out a little. I don't understand what he means what? Like what would happen? Well, what would happen is you would start believing wrong teaching. That's the logical result. And what would happen? Like would you still be saved? Is that what we're asking? Would you be punished for following a false teacher if you knew no better? I would say the justice part of my brain says no. But here's why it's important that we all disciple one another. If you started following false teaching and then never looked it up or never received correction, then either you failed to grow properly or the church failed to disciple you. So even if somebody, let's say somebody becomes a Christian today because of some sort of false teaching, but then they start reading the Bible for themselves and the Holy Spirit speaks to them through the pages and goes, wow, that was really whack. I need to go find a new church. I need to find a church that will teach the Bible for the way the Bible is. Then the false teaching gets corrected as the church does what it does. Like we do what we do. We should be making better disciples. If I do what I do, I should be making more intelligent Christians and better, more obedient Christians. So the question sort of is kind of creating a scenario that I don't think is real, which is let's say you are deceived and you come to Christianity through the ministry of a false teacher and then never discover that it's false. I think the only way that happens is if it's a cult that you're not allowed to question. Right? That's another thing I would say. This is not the word of God. This is the word of Bill. Don't ever believe a pastor who won't let you question him. I think it's a fair rule. Don't ever take a pastor's word for it. And if he is above being questioned, don't listen. Now here's the problem. It doesn't mean he's wrong in everything. Right? It doesn't mean you're wrong in everything just because you're unwilling to be questioned. But if you're unwilling to be questioned, a lot of times in my experience, it comes from the I'm unwilling to study and question whether I've questioned myself. Hopefully you know by the time I get up here, I have like gone around the mountain and back again and over the river, through the woods, got the cookies from Grandma's house, came back, made sure that I'm right on and I at least agree with myself. Because sometimes I don't. That's the ADHD. Sometimes I have to argue with myself about which position is best. But yeah, I would say if you came to Christianity through false teaching, you would have a responsibility to learn the word of God for yourself. And other Christians who are around you have a responsibility to help you learn correctly. If both of us do our jobs right, hopefully we can sift out the major false teaching that happened. Does that make sense? Are there any other questions? No? There are but I'm running out of time. Alright. I still got about. So here's what I'd like to do. For all the questions that I did not answer, I have them. I will answer your questions via email. Even if you ask them online, I will respond via email to make sure you get your questions answered.