This morning we are going to continue our teaching series on the Holy Spirit. For the last several weeks we have been examining who the Holy Spirit is. We've looked at His activity in the Old Testament. We looked at His activity during the gospel period with John the Baptist. And in the life of Jesus we defined who He is. So let me give you the key thought that holds all of this series together. The Holy Spirit is a necessary part of the Christian life. We must understand what the Bible says about Him. So we started with identity. We looked at Holy Spirit. We looked at the gospel period. And this morning we are going to look at the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer. Now each week I set this sermon series up to ask and answer a question. So I'm going to give you the question that we're going to ask today. And then I'm going to give you the answer. So we looked at the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament. We looked at the Holy Spirit in the gospel period. So the question today is what does the Holy Spirit do now? What does the Holy Spirit do now? And here's the answer. The Holy Spirit is the presence of God who gives us spiritual life. The Holy Spirit is the presence of God who gives us spiritual life. Now if you will look at the back of the handout that the ushers handed you on the way in. There is a large block of verses on the back. That is not my sermon text for today. That is just some verses. If you wanted to go back and self study the Holy Spirit's activity in the New Testament. That is a group of verses that will help you find a lot of things that the Holy Spirit did. But this morning I want to talk specifically about the Holy Spirit as the presence of God for us today. Who gives us spiritual life. So here's the first thing I want you to learn. The Holy Spirit replaces Jesus as God's presence with us. Now that was a carefully selected sentence. So let me read it again because I don't want you to mistake what I'm saying. The Holy Spirit replaces Jesus as God's presence with us. Now if you brought your Bibles let's turn to the gospel of John. That's the fourth book in the New Testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. I want to be clear about what I am saying about the Spirit and I'm not saying about the Spirit. And I think the easiest way to do that is to first show you in the text what we're looking at. And then we'll rip it up together. So this is the gospel of John. We're going to go to chapter 16. And we're going to start reading in verse 7. So John 16 I'll begin reading at verse 7. But very truly I tell you it is good for you that I am going away. This is Jesus himself speaking. It is good for you that I am going away. Unless I go away the advocate will not come to you. But if I go I will send him to you. Verse 8. When he comes he will prove the world to be in the wrong about sin and righteousness and judgment. About sin because people do not believe in me. About righteousness because I am going to the Father where you can see me no longer. And about judgment because the prince of this world now stands condemned. I have much more to say to you more than you can bear now. But when he, the Spirit of truth, comes he will guide you into all the truth. He will not speak of his own or his own will speak of his own. Or he will not speak on his own. He will speak only what he hears and will tell you what is yet to come. So let's rewind back to verse 7 here. Let's look at this. So this is Jesus speaking. Jesus is now speaking to his disciples and he's telling them about something that God is about to do new. Now keep in mind the New Testament kicked off with God doing something new. God sent an angel to a man named Zechariah in the temple. How many years of silence between the Old and New Testament? 400 years. For 400 years God didn't do anything new. And then God sent an angel. Then God sent the forerunner. Then God sent the God man Messiah Jesus. Then Jesus was baptized and anointed by the power of the Spirit. Then Jesus had his ministry. And now at the close of it Jesus is telling his disciples God is going to do another new thing. Something else new. Verse 7. But very truly I tell you it is for your good that I am going away. Just sit with that for a minute. This is Jesus saying Dan it's good for you for me to leave. I know you think and how many of us think if you were with the apostles, if you were with that group, that you'd be like Jesus just stay. I mean you're glorified now. You're eternal now. You can stay with all of us for the rest of time, just stay. And Jesus says no you don't understand. It is better for you for me to go away. Now why would Jesus say this? Because Jesus knew what comes next. Unless I, this is the back half of verse 7. Unless I go away the advocate will not come to you. But if I go I will send him away. But if I go I will send him away. I will send him to you. This is Jesus telling the early disciples that it is better for you to have the Holy Spirit than to have me. This is Jesus saying, Dave it's gonna be long-term better for you to let me go and let me send you the Holy Spirit because that's gonna be better for you. So why does Jesus go and send the Spirit? Well while Jesus was on earth pre-crucifixion, right, so while he is in his earthly human form, non-glorified human form, mortal, how many places can Jesus be at the same time? One. That's a major limitation to the omnipresent God, don't you think? That's a major limitation that Jesus willingly assumed upon himself. Then when he's glorified and he's resurrected, he's still in a glorified human body, although I would argue that that glorified human body can do some things that you and my mortal human bodies can't do, like you know randomly appear in the middle of a room full of locked doors. Jesus did that state. But even then, Jesus says it's better for you if I send you the Spirit. I would submit to you the number one reason why it is better for us to have the Spirit than to have the earthly King Jesus is the Spirit isn't limited by a mortal or glorified human body. The Spirit is the full omnipresence, omniscience, and omnipotence of God, right? The Spirit, remember when we talked about Jesus put on the incarnation, he incarnate, he put on the flesh, the Spirit never did that. The Spirit is the full, unadulterated, omnipresent, omnipresence, omnipotent God. But there's another thing that the Spirit does for you and I that Jesus never did. The indwelling, the Spirit of God coming to live with inside a human being. Jesus never does this during the gospel period. He also never does this during the post resurrection pre ascension 40 days. So for those who are following the story of Jesus, Jesus is born, that's Christmas, then at 12 years old Jesus in the temple, and then the gospels go silent from 12 to 30. Then Jesus starts his ministry, he teaches, he's crucified, he resurrects, and then he stays on earth for 40 days after the resurrection, teaching the disciples, and then on the day of ascension, he ascends to heaven, and he tells them, but Tyler don't go anywhere yet. You go to Jerusalem and wait for the gift the Spirit will send. Well what was the gift? The advocate. He said, listen it's going to be better for you. Let me go, I'm gonna send you the advocate, the Spirit, but I have to go in order to send him to you. Then verse 8, when he comes, now he, now Jesus is telling the disciples what the Holy Spirit will do for them and why it is better. When he comes he will prove the world to be wrong about sin and righteousness and judgment. So this is Jesus telling us that it is better for us, for the Spirit to come, because the Spirit is going to do these three things. It's going to show the world that the world is wrong about sin, the world is wrong about righteousness, and the world is wrong about judgment. Now verse 9, how is the world wrong about sin? Because it didn't believe in Jesus. So what does that mean? How does the Holy Spirit do this? The Holy Spirit is the one who brings conviction and the Holy Spirit is the one who draws us to faith in Jesus. If Jesus didn't go and send the Spirit, the Spirit would not be active today in the way that he is. Could the Spirit still be active from heaven? Of course he is. He's omnipresent, omnipotent, all-powerful, all-knowing God. But that wasn't the way God played the plan. The plan was to send the Spirit to earth here with us to indwell the Church of Jesus Christ and to convict the world of sin, lack of belief in Jesus. 10, about righteousness, because I'm going to the Father and you can see me no longer. How does Jesus's absence in the Spirit's presence teach us about righteousness? Well because if Jesus isn't here anymore, who you gonna copy? Who you gonna follow? Who you gonna get your advice from? How do you decide what is good for your life and what is bad for your life? I mean Jim, we could go all the way back to the garden. How about we eat from the tree of life and not the tree of the knowledge of good and evil? I mean it's like this story goes all the way back to the super beginning. When the Spirit comes, the Spirit will teach us about righteousness because it will teach us to be like Jesus. Jesus isn't here anymore in his glorified human form but the Spirit is here to teach us to live righteously. And number three about judgment because the Prince of this world now stands condemned. Now you have to understand John is a first century Jew so his understanding of theology comes out of Old Testament Hebrew Bible. Who is the Prince of this world? The devil. The fallen angel who rebelled against God and was cast out of heaven. So a little bit of a pop quiz for everybody in case you didn't know. The devil doesn't live in hell. That is not what the Bible says. That's what Dante's Inferno says. Dante's Inferno is a classic piece of literature written a long time ago. It's where we get the idea that the devil has horns and a tail and a pitchfork. It's where we get the idea of the different levels of hell. That's all from Dante's Inferno. It's not from the Holy Bible. The Holy Bible says that when when the fallen angels were cast out of heaven, they were not cast into hell. They were cast here to earth. That means you and I live on the surface of a planet that it is inhabited by other beings than us. Now don't everybody get your tinfoil hat club out yet, okay? We're staying in the theological realm not the astrological realm. You and I live on a planet inhabited by demons. I don't want to sugarcoat that for you. I don't want to pretend that that's not what the Bible says. That's exactly what the Bible says. Now those of you have questions about angel Olly demonology, I'm not gonna go super deep into that but if you have questions, please put them on your connect cards. I love questions because questions lead to conversations. So please know if you have a question about that, put on your card. But here's what I need you to understand. What's the third thing the Holy Spirit does? The Holy Spirit reminds us that there is an ultimate penalty for those who disobey God. The Holy Spirit is the reminder to the devil himself that at the end of this judgment is coming and you will be judged and you will be found guilty. The Holy Spirit was sent to teach us how to live righteously and was also sent to be our eternal reminder that there is a judgment for those who step outside of God's plan and that is not unloving. I know today in our culture, they would give us a statement like you know love is love and we're supposed to just assume that all forms of love are equal and God is love therefore God loves everyone and that's totally true. God loves everyone. I would cook that is exactly what the Bible says. But the biblical definition of love doesn't leave defining it in your terms. It leaves it in his terms. Love does not equal automatic acceptance and acknowledgement and celebration of whatever you choose. When we say God is love, we also must use God's definitions and we can't separate God's love from his mercy, from his judges, from his righteousness, from his grace, from his provision, from his correction. Like if all those things go together, we make an... Has anybody ever seen a caricature? Since we don't have comics in the much anymore. A caricature is when you draw something or you draw a person but you over accentuate one thing. Like you might draw me and over accentuate like to where I have giant elephant-sized ears, right? That would be a caricature. Or you could draw my face and over accentuate my schnoz to the point that I have this giant nose in the middle of my face. That would be a caricature. When we over accentuate and we forget his righteousness, his justice, his mercy, his grace, his provision, and his blessing, we are not looking at a portrait of God. We are looking at a caricature of him. The Holy Spirit was sent to keep our perspective in order to teach us about righteousness but also to remind us that judgment is coming. Look at verse 13. But when he, again right, the Holy Spirit is a divine person, not a thing. That was week one. When he, the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. He will not speak on his own. He will speak only what he hears and he will tell you about what is yet to come. The other thing the Holy Spirit does for us is guides us in truth. Guides us in what is true and what is false. The opposite of true is false. That's kind of like just super basic. That's why when you have a true false quiz, there's only one two possible answers. There's not a both and. Trolls. That's not a thing. So that's the first thing that the Holy Spirit does for us is he replaces the presence of Jesus so we have God's presence with us. Here's the second thing he does. The Holy Spirit gives us new spiritual life. Gives us a new spiritual life. Stay in the Gospel of John but flip back to John chapter 3. John chapter 3. I only want to look at verses 5 through 8. I'll give while you're turning there, I'll give you the backstory. This is Jesus's famous conversation with a Pharisee at night in Jerusalem when he's asking him how to be born again and the name of that Pharisee starts with an N is Nicodemus. That's right. This is quite possibly one of the famous chapters in the Bible because we get John 3 16 from John chapter 3. I'm not a math major and I at least knew that much. So John 3. I only want to read verses 5 through 8 because I want to limit the scope to what Jesus says here about the Spirit. So Jesus answered, very truly I tell you no one can enter the kingdom of God unless they are born of water and the Spirit. Verse 6. Flesh gives birth to flesh but the Spirit gives birth to spirit. You should not be surprised at my saying you must be born again. The wind blows wherever it pleases. You hear its sound but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it's going. So it is with everyone born of the Spirit. So let's rewind here back to verse 5. Chapter 3 verse 5. Jesus answers. So this is Jesus explaining to Nicodemus that you have to be born again. Nicodemus does not get it and he goes I don't understand how can a grown man climb back into his mother's womb and Jesus says listen you need to understand this is the New International Version the New International Bill Version of verse 5. Bro you like need to get this. No one's gonna enter the kingdom of God unless they're born of water and the Spirit. Now let's handle the water part first. That was water part not water park. Sorry we're not going out. So there are a couple different ways that this word water has been interpreted but how you interpret it's gonna greatly affect what we get out of this verse. So I'm gonna lay up the options for you and then I'm gonna tell you which option I think is most correct. So the first thing that a lot of people want to say is that Joel it's water clearly it's Jesus it's water we must be talking about water baptism. I'm gonna tell you I think that's incredibly wrong and here's why. Jesus is a first century Jew. Now they have baptism as repentance John the Baptist had that but the Christian right of baptism hasn't even been invented yet. Jesus has not created Christian baptism. Furthermore what's the primary symbolism for Christian baptism? The death burial and resurrection of Jesus. Jesus hasn't died Jesus hasn't been buried and Jesus hasn't risen in John chapter 3. So even though we know what's gonna happen to Jesus and Jesus knows what's gonna happen I don't believe there's any way you could read Christian baptism into this verse because Christian baptism hasn't been created in John chapter 3. There's another problem if you go with Christian baptism as your definition of water you just made baptism by immersion necessary for salvation which means if you get saved in the desert where there's no water you can trust in Jesus and still go to hell. Does that sound right? Does that and here's the thing when we look at different interpretations of Scripture Scripture helps us interpret Scripture. So I need to look at that and go huh should I believe that I have to be water baptized in order to go to heaven? No you should not. There are plenty of other verses to establish that point. So we're gonna take the water baptism idea and we're gonna move it to the side. The next idea for what does he mean by water is the referring to amniotic fluid of physical human birth right? What's what what's the the primary symbol that ladies you're about to give birth? My water broke right? All the moms just totally had flashbacks I'm sorry. Well we'll pray for you right? My water broke. So the second idea that has been put forward by scholars is that Jesus is referring to the water breaking of human female pregnancy. Okay I mean I could I could kind of see where you're coming from but do you see how you're using our modern-day understanding in order to read back into Jesus understanding? In order to know that that's what Jesus is referring to you'd have to know that that's what they referred to when women were pregnant in the first century at this time and guess what there's not a single record of them referring to water breaking the way you and I refer to it today. So whilst I can't totally rule this one out as a no-no I can tell you if you choose to go there that you're gonna have a problem. Number one I've got no historical evidence to support it but number two you've got another problem and this one's gonna hurt. If water breaking is required for salvation then that means every single stillbirth miscarriage and aborted child is required to go to hell automatically. I don't know about you but I got a real problem with that theological implication if I read the passage this way. I've got no historical evidence to read it that way and the implications if I follow it down that road lead me to a place that Jerry I just don't like that. So I'm gonna tell you I think that one is wrong but I can't prove that it's wrong like I could with number one and then that leaves me with the third option which I think is the most correct. Jesus is referring to water not in a physical sense. He's referring to water in a theological sense and here's why I say that. When John the Baptist wanted to show people or when John the Baptist ministry was to illustrate repentance what did he do? He baptized with water. Now does the water actually wash away sins? No. We've never believed that. No one has ever believed that the actual water in the baptistry washes away sins but what is it? It's a symbol. The water as a symbol of repentant cleansing. Now is there anywhere in the Bible that I can take you and show you water as a symbol of repentant cleansing? 100% there is. You can write this down. I didn't I'm not putting it on the screen but if you were to go back and look at the book of Ezekiel chapter 36 verses 25 through 27. Ezekiel the Old Testament prophet looked forward to a day when God would not. Jeremiah talked about I'm going to replace your heart of stone with your heart of flesh. That was a prophet Jeremiah. Ezekiel talked about the fact that I will clean you and clean your hearts with new spiritual water. Now if I'm looking for scripture to interpret scripture and help me understand something that's a little confusing I got to be honest number three feels the feels the most correct to me. If you want to take number two, amniotic fluid I think you could go there. I can't take that trip with you but I don't think you're incorrect. I would have to caution you. I think looking at this is water baptism especially Christian water baptism is historically inaccurate and theologically inaccurate. So I'm gonna go with number three but I wanted you to know that little excursus was just to tell you that there's different options out there and it's fun to look down those rabbit holes and see where they go. If Jesus is referring to the new spiritual cleansing that the Spirit of God gives so I'm born of water I'm spiritually cleansed and born of the spirit I'm given new spiritual life. Now this totally makes sense. This is why Jesus is focused on the activity of the spirit because the spirits actually involved in both steps. The first is spiritual cleansing the second is spiritual life. Just like I could say the first is that justification moment when you're saved and that second is the indwelling moment when the spirit comes and lives in us. You see how we still have both in our theology today? That's why I think that this reading of what is water and of the spirit is the most correct. If you have questions about that if you're watching online and you disagree with the way I'm handling the passage put it on your connect card let's debate it on the phone. Questions lead to conversations and that's good. So now we go to verse 6. Now that we've established water in the spirit is spiritual cleansing and new spiritual life both acts of the spirit flesh gives birth to flesh but the spirit gives birth to spirit. Now for those of you like the amniotic fluid view of that verse this verse you're gonna look at and say okay well duh. Human women give birth to human babies and but only the Spirit of God can give birth to spiritual babies. Well sure but spiritual life happens inside of human life. It's not like we it's not like we're two people and all of a sudden over here is flesh bill and over here is spiritual bill. No they both live right here. I'm given new spiritual life within myself but guess what I cannot give myself new spiritual life only the Holy Spirit can do that. Then he goes on further and he goes I gotta say something really funny here. Verse 6 flesh gives birth to flesh but spirit gives birth to spirit then verse 7 you should not be surprised at my saying. Does anybody else get the idea that Nicodemus has got one of these like deer in the headlight look while Jesus is talking to him. Nicodemus is going huh and Nicodemus is a teacher. He's a well-trained member of the Sanhedrin. He's like way up here. He's like PhD level scripture guy. That's a technical term by the way PhD level scripture guy and Jesus is just talking spiritual truth at him that he is struggling to get. So then Jesus makes it even simpler. You should not be surprised at my saying you must be born again and now here we get the second most common reference to the spirit which is wind. The wind blows wherever it pleases you hear it sound but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it's going. So it is with everyone born of the spirit. He's talking about the spiritual life that humans get. Just because you can't see where the wind comes from and you can't always see where it goes doesn't mean you can't see what it touches. Anybody ever flown a kite? Right? Okay. We lived in Florida and before we had children and I was a whole lot more reckless. I had one of those trick kites that you flew with two hands. Anybody ever flown one of those? Incredibly fun. You could fly it up in the air. You could make it do like loop to loops. Make it go back and forth. Well I was young and stupid and I got it in my head that I was gonna go fly a kite when Hurricane Francis came ashore in 2003. So I went to this this big empty field. It's probably 6 acres worth of just open grassland that hadn't been developed yet. And I took out my trick kite. It's nice big green triangle. And brother, I had that thing up so high. I could barely see it. I ran out of line. And I would say the line had to be a good 2 or 3 hundred feet long. I ran out of line to control it. That doesn't mean that I could see the wind. But when I put the kite in the wind, I may not be able to see the wind but that doesn't mean I can't see the effects of it. Doesn't mean I can't feel it. This is what Jesus is saying about spiritual life. This is what the Holy Spirit does for us that we may not be able to see where the spirit comes from. And I may not be able to see see where the spirit is going. But I darn well can see the spirit when it's the wind in my kite. When the spirits in my life, I can sense a new spiritual life that I may not fully understand where it came from. And that may not fully understand where it goes. And I may not fully suggest you ever fly a kite in hurricane force winds. Don't... That's not your takeaway from today, okay? Teenagers, do not copy Pastor Bill. Pastor Bill is someone to listen to but not mirror, okay? This is what the Holy Spirit does for us that we cannot do for ourselves. He gives us new spiritual life. He is the cleanser who cleanses us spiritually. He is the renewer, the rejuvenator who gives us new spiritual life even if we can't fully see him where he's coming or where he's going. Just like a kite in the wind, I can experience him. Now Nicodemus doesn't have the spirit in him at this moment. So sometimes I feel... We talk about this sometimes in my Tuesday group. Sometimes I feel bad for the people in the Old Testament and the ones in the Gospels who didn't have the Holy Spirit because they're literally listening to the Son of God teach you about salvation. And Nicodemus, a PhD level trained theologian going, what? I feel bad sometimes for Nicodemus. I'm very thankful that the Holy Spirit saw fit to give me this story and to give me this text so I can understand what the Spirit does in our life. The Holy Spirit is both the presence of God that you and I today get to experience and the only source of spiritual life that we can be renewed by. That's what the Spirit does today. So let me bring this in for a landing. Here's your takeaway. The Holy Spirit is the presence of God who gives us spiritual life. We should recognize his ongoing presence and our new spiritual life each day. Just like putting the kite in the wind. If there ain't no wind, what happens to the kite? It don't fly. It falls flat and then you get to go chase it and you get to wind it up and you get to throw it and if you're really really really stuck at it you get to run. Guess what? Running doesn't make wind. It makes tired. And I say that and it's sort of funny. You can't run enough to make spiritual life work in your life. Legalism will never bring new spiritual life. Legalism is when you make your own rules and try to live by them to make yourself feel righteous. It's what the Pharisees did in the gospel period. Well I'm righteous because I do these things. No. We're righteous because Jesus has made us righteous. We're righteous because he bought us by his blood and made us righteous and because of that we now have access to new spiritual life. So I got to ask you the question. If you could reach inside of yourself and break, turn your soul into a kite and toss it up into the wind of your life. Is the Holy Spirit gonna catch the kite? Is the Holy Spirit gonna lift it up and guide you and direct you? Or is your kite gonna fall flat because you're not noticing the Spirit in your life? Or maybe you're here and you don't have new spiritual life yet. That's okay. Worship team I'm gonna ask you guys to come forward. Usher's I'm gonna ask you guys to get ready. If you walked in the doors this morning you should have been handed a handout. I want to ask everybody to pull out their cell phone. On the front of this morning's bulletin there's a QR code I want to ask you to scan to fill out our connect card. If you would like to rather use one of the paper copies of the cards in the chairs there you can do that as well. But I want to ask you a question. Just like my kite in the wind, can can you don't need to see where the Spirit is coming or where the Spirit is going to sense that the Spirit is moving. My question is is the Spirit moving in your life? I'd like you to respond on your connect card today and let me know how is the Spirit moving in your life? Do you have questions about that? Do you need help understanding that? Now if you're watching this online I realize you don't have one of our physical cards or our handouts but you can see there at the bottom of the screen it says connect with us today at catalyst 302.com slash connect. I want you to also go to that page click the button that says I attended online and I want you to fill out. If you have questions today maybe you disagree with my interpretation of the passage. Maybe you just you have a random Bible question that you need answered. Listen I love questions. Questions lead to conversations. Feel free to ask me your questions. I want to be a resource for you. I want to help you be able to toss that kite up into the wind and be able to see and feel the Spirit moving in your life. That is the evidence of new spiritual life. That's not the genesis of it. The Spirit is the one who brings the life. The Spirit is also the presence of God in our lives today. So while you guys are finishing your connect cards whether they're on your phone or in paper, I'll ask that you guys come forward. Our worship team is going to lead us in a closing song as we collect this morning's tithes and offerings that I'm going to come back up. I've just got two announcements and then we will we will go home for the day. Heavenly Father I thank you for the new spiritual life that you have granted each of us. Thank you Lord that you have given us the indwelling Holy Spirit to lead us and to guide us in our daily pursuit of you. Oh God I pray that you would continue to lean and guide us as we continue to place our faith in you. In Jesus name, Amen.