Well good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being a part of our service, whether you are here in our Wilmington campus or you are part of our online extended family. Thank you for worshiping with us today. Thank you for being a part of the church family. It is my privilege to be the primary pastor and teacher here at Catalyst. We are in the middle of a series where we are studying the book of James. So James is in the New Testament. And I want to give just a little background. But before I do that, let's look at the key thought that sort of holds all of this series together. This is my, like, if you ask me to write a one sentence drill down, what is the book of James about? From trials and temptation to self control and suffering, the book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the real world. I think that's the best way I can say James. James is faith in Jesus with blue jeans and a ball cap, walking down the sidewalk, drinking a milkshake on a Friday. Like that's what the book of James is. There are many times when we read Paul's letters and he's very thought oriented. He's very either legal or very doctrinal and it's like super heady. James to me is the opposite of that. James is the blue jean, ball cap, flip flops, vanilla milkshake, walking down the block going, hey man, have you heard about Jesus? So just to give you a little background, and if you missed the first message of this series, I did a much longer introduction on the background of the book of James. You can find it in the Catalyst app. You can also find it on our website. So I just want to give a brief overview of the book of James. James was written most likely by James the half brother of Jesus. There are some other candidates there. You can see the first message in the series to see that. But I'm of the opinion that James the half brother of Jesus is the most likely candidate. The book of James is authored or penned sometime between AD 35 and 45, maybe 47 if we push it. And if that date is true, then what you and I are studying this morning is the very first book of the New Testament that the Holy Spirit revealed to man. So yes, all of the books of the Old Testament are in existence. But when the Holy Spirit began to reveal New Scripture, James here is the first take on that. And then who did James write to? This is very important for interpreting the text, especially this week. Who did James write to? James is written to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom were Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman Empire. So if you are if you have the Catalyst app on your phone, whether you're watching us online or you're here in the building, I'd like to ask you to open it. And the very first announcement you see there's a blue background. It says sermon notes. If you click on it, it's going to give you a fill in the blank. The first fill in this morning, we're talking about the audience is right here. The audience is faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. So the audience of the book of James is Christians, not non Christians. It's Christians, specifically those trying to be faithful, but scattered in pagan lands. Now, in order to put ourselves in the right mental headspace, the right frame, let's start at the beginning of the Bible and remind ourselves how we got here in A.D. 35 to 45. So Genesis 1 1. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. I love that we start out on a good one. Everybody gets that earth. Then into or onto creation, God planted a garden at a place named Eden into the Garden of Eden. He creates two human beings, Adam and Eve. He gives them a very clear instruction. All of the fruit and the food of the garden you may eat. You may eat of all of it except how many? Except one tree. That was it. Literally, Anthony, eat anything you want, just not this one thing. Right? And in so doing, God creates obedience, God creates law, and he creates freedom of choice. You have to choose to obey God. And you and I still have to do the same today. Humanity chooses to disobey God. They choose their own desires over God's design. Sin and corruption enter the world. They're ejected from Eden. Sin begins to run rampant. So much so that God regrets that he created human beings. And so he sends a punishment. He sends a flood to give humanity a restart. Give us a chance at living obediently. But during that time, there was one righteous man found on earth. And he and his wife and his sons and their wives boarded a boat that they built. The name of the boat is the? Arc. Arc. Good job. I haven't asked that one before. You guys got it. Right? So Noah's arc. They board the arc. It rains, floods the earth. Then the arc comes to settle. Huge plug in just about two weeks. Actually, it's two weeks to this Sunday, isn't it? Right. So not next Sunday, but Sunday after we start our VBS. And it's five nights. Oh, it's next Sunday? You see, I don't look at a calendar when I come up here to preach. So that's why you got to help me. So it's next Sunday. We start five nights on the Genesis flood. If you have not RSVP yet, you could do so in the app for our online family. Our VBS will not be live streamed, but we will be recording my teachings each night. And I'm going to create a way to have some interaction with you where we go through the teachings together. So then the flood subsides. Humanity gets a restart. Unfortunately, we all still disobedient and sin begins to run rampant again. And God says, okay, I got a new plan. I'm going to find this guy in Ur of the Chaldeans in Mesopotamia. And he reaches out to this man. He says, listen, I will be your God. You will be my people. I will bless those who bless you. Curse those who curse you. I will remember to turn the ringer of my phone off when I come to the pulpit. That'd be really helpful. I will bless those who bless you. I will curse those who curse you. I will be your God. You will be my people. The land that go to the land that I will show you. God changes that man's name to Abraham. And that's why he's known as that's why that covenant is known as the Abrahamic covenant. Abraham is the first patriarch of the Hebrew people. Abraham then has two sons. And normally I ask you the name of the covenant inheritor. What is the name of Abraham's oldest son? No, Ishmael. Close. Hold one generation. Ishmael. Ishmael is his oldest son, which would have normally been the rightful inheritor. But God says, no, I'm going to do it my way. So the second born son is the covenant inheritor. What is the name of the second patriarch of the Hebrew people? Isaac. That's right. Then Isaac has two sons and the older son is not the covenant inheritor. What is the name of Isaac's older son? Esau and his younger brother, Jacob. Jacob then becomes the covenant inheritor. So there's your three patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. Jacob then has like a bunch of sons with a bunch of wives. And we're not going to get into that today. But not advisable gentlemen. Just let me put it that way. Not advisable. And then the older brothers sell their younger brother into slavery. He goes into Egypt. He's there for like maybe 13 ish years. He starts as a slave. He ends up in the palace. He ends up interping a dream from God given to Pharaoh. So if you don't think God can speak to unbelievers, just read the Bible. He does. God reveals a dream to Pharaoh and through Joseph's position, he saves his entire family. You guys are going to get that one anyway. So then that's the end of Genesis. Then we start the book of Exodus. God's people are in the land of Egypt. What is the name of the land in Egypt that Pharaoh put God's people? Starts with a G. Goshen. Good job. They're in the land of Goshen. A Pharaoh rises up who did not remember who God was, did not remember who Joseph was, and they enslaved the Hebrew people. In their enslavement, they cry out for a deliverer and God provides them a young man, born a slave, educated in the palace, trained for ministry in the fields of Midian as a shepherd. His wife's name is Zipporah. His name is Moses. His brother's name is Aaron. His sister's name is Miriam. Good job. That's a whole whole mosaic of him. So they go into Egypt. God reveals his power through what we call the 10 plagues. Ultimately, they are rescued from Egypt and they walk across a body of water which stood up and they walk across on dry land. The name of the body of water is the Red Sea. They walk across the Red Sea. They come to the foot of a very special mountain in which Moses goes up on the top of the mountain. He reveals the law of God. While the law of God is being revealed, Aaron is downstairs at the bottom of the mountain, acting a fool, having everybody worship a golden calf. The name of the mountain is Sinai. That's why we call it the Sinatic or the Sinai covenant. And still, God's people are struggling with disobedience so much so that they don't get to move right in the promised land. They have to wander for how many years? For 40 years, they wander in the wilderness. And during those 40 years, that entire generation save two people, die off, and then they prepare to move into the land of Canaan. God raises up a young man to take Moses' place and to lead the children of Israel across the River Jordan and into the Red Sea. That young man's name is Joshua. Joshua leads the children of Israel into the land of Canaan. They still struggle with disobedience. They do not move out everyone else ahead of them. They begin to intermarry what's called syncretism. They mix other beliefs into their faith. They continue to reject God. And by the time we get to the book of Judges, everybody does what is right in their own eyes. In their own eyes. They decide what's good and bad. Do you notice that's the same problem from Eden? Right? What was the name of the tree that they weren't supposed to eat of? The knowledge of good and evil. Deciding for yourself what's good and bad. We make it all the way to the book of Judges. Gretchen, we're still doing the same stupid thing. Deciding for ourselves what is good and bad. So during the book of Judges, the children are completely disobedient, leading to a full rejection of God's authority when they ask for something like all the other kids have and they ask for a human king. And they ask for a human king and God says, okay fine, you want a king? I'm going to give you a king. But he's going to tax you. He's going to put your daughters into your harem. He's going to put your sons into his military service. And the first king of the United Monarchy of Israel is? Saul. Followed by? David. Followed by? Solomon. Saul, David, Solomon. So first three kings of the United Monarchy of Israel. And then after Solomon, what happens? Yeah, but what is the hand motion? There we go. You make sure everybody gets it, right? So after Solomon's civil war, God's people fracture into two nations. The northern kingdom of Israel, which has how many tribes? Ten. And the southern kingdom of Judah, which has how many tribes? Two, right? So then they operate this way for the whole middle of the Old Testament, still being disobedient. They have different prophets who are sent to different lands. You have all those prophets in the Old Testament. And then finally God says, listen, you guys are not getting it. And living in my land, one of the requirements was obedience. So because of your disobedience, literally the land is going to spit you out and I'm going to put you in a time out. So God uses an external pagan nation who comes in and invades the northern kingdom of Israel. And the name of that pagan nation is? Assyria. They carry off the northern kingdom of Israel, kingdom of Judah, had a couple of good kings and so they held out for a little while longer. And then while Israel is in Assyria, Assyria falls to a second pagan nation named? Babylon. Babylon then comes in and invades the southern kingdom of Judah, carries everybody away. That's where Daniel is taken away. So that's where Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, Jeremiah's ministry happens during that time. He tells them, hey guys, buckle up. You're going to be here for 70 years. So have children, marry your children, plant gardens, do good for the city. I'm going to come back for you when your time out is over. Anybody who's ever raised a toddler has given that speech, right? And all the moms just smiled at me. At least I saw that. Right? Anybody who's ever had to put your kid in time out knows exactly how that feels. So then after 70 years, God calls his people back and he does that by having the nation of Babylon fall to another pagan nation. The name of the third pagan nation is? Persia. Persia defeats Babylon and the king of Persia allows everyone to go home. So now they start coming home. There's your Ezra, there's your Nehemiah. They begin to rebuild the walls. They begin to rebuild, leaning to the end of the Old Testament where God sends a prophet named Malachi. And he makes a one final prophecy that closes out the Old Testament. He says, listen, I will send you my anointed one, my Messiah, which is Messiah, the anointed one of God. And you'll know it's him, Aaron, because I'm going to send his boy ahead of him. So now I'm going to switch from Hebrew to the New International Bill version. You're going to know my boy's coming because his boy's going to prepare the way. And so there will be one man sent by God to prepare the way for my boy who's going to come, who's my anointed one. And then there's silence. For 400 years, God doesn't speak. There's no angelic messages. There's no new revelation. Now during those 400 years, a lot of stuff happened. History happens, wars, empires. This guy named Alexander comes on the scene. He was great. And then he died and he was fractured. And then all this stuff. And then hopefully the Romans come in. The Romans start taking over. And then God breaks his silence by sending an angel to the temple and reveals to a priest who is ministering, who was chosen by Lot, who's ministering before the Lord. And the angel shows up. And what's the first thing the angel says? Do not be afraid. Right? That's the first thing every angel says. Whoa, pump the brakes. Don't be afraid. And he tells this priest, you're going to have a son, even though you and your wife are in their old age. And he will be great in the sight of the Lord. And you're never to cut his hair. And he's never to drink wine. And he will bring the hearts of God through who prepared the way. The name of the priest? Zechariah. The name of his son? John the Baptist. Then God sends another angel to a young woman, engaged to be married, but not married yet. And says the power of the Holy Spirit will overshadow you. And you will give birth to the Holy One of God. And that young woman's name is Mary. Then God sends a third angel to the guy that's supposed to marry Mary. Because he's like, oh, we're not doing this. You clearly have cheated on me. And he sends a third angel to the guy who's supposed to marry Mary, who becomes Jesus' stepfather. The name of that man is? Joseph. So then Jesus is born. That's the Nativity story, the Christmas story. And at Jesus' birth, there is an angelic announcement. And there are shepherds out in the field. And they come in the very night. And they see and they worship Jesus. There's also a star in the sky that Magi from the east, they come and follow. And they find Jesus, I would say 18 to 20 something months afterwards. And then they give Jesus gifts. And then it fast forwards. There's this one scene where Jesus is 12. And he's at the temple. Got to be about my father's business. And then we fast forward again to Jesus' give or take, 27 to 30. And that's when his ministry starts. Then Jesus has 3 years of a ministry where he calls God's people to live according to the Kingdom of God. He calls them back to live in repentance, to walk by faith, to let go of some of their old traditions. Spoiler alert, it doesn't go over really well. So his preaching ministry kind of comes to an abrupt end. Jesus is crucified on a cross just outside the Jewish capital city of Jerusalem. That's right. And then the Sunday following, which I would say is Sunday, April the 9th, 80 to 30. Jesus rises from the grave, proving that he's God, proving that he's the anointed one, proving he is the King of Kings, Lord of Lords. All the things that he said he was, he proved through his resurrection. And then he goes around teaching his disciples for how many days? 40 more days. 40 more days, the risen glorified Jesus walks the earth and teaches his disciples. And in those 40 days, they are transformed from being afraid and hiding from the Jews and the Romans to being willing to die for the truth of Jesus. Massive transformation. And then he gets ready and he says, listen, I have to go. So they go to the Mount of Transfiguration. And he says, but don't go anywhere yet. Go back to the city. Stay here because I'm going to send you a gift that my father has promised. And it's on a very specific Jewish holiday that they are all in town in Jerusalem and the Holy Spirit falls on the upper room and everyone's filled with the Holy Spirit. And they begin to speak in other tongues in other languages. What is the name of the Jewish holiday on which the Church of Jesus Christ is born? Pentecost. Close. It's the other one. Pentecost. And on Pentecost, the church that you and I are a part of is born. So if Jesus rose in A.D. 30 and it was 50 days after his resurrection, what year is the church born? A.D. 30. Right. That's simple math. If it was April and you go fast forward 50 days, it's still A.D. 30. So the church that you and I are a part of today was born in the year A.D. 30. So then they start traveling. If you read the beginning of the book of Acts, they begin to spread out Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria to the ends of the earth. There's a young man who's Jesus' half brother named James who interestingly enough did not believe in Jesus during Jesus' ministry, but then believed in Jesus after his resurrection. So James is often thought to be referred to as a skeptic because he didn't really believe Jesus' claims until he was smack dab in the face of his resurrected brother. And all of a sudden, I'm a believer, James becomes a leader in the New Testament church. So if the church is born in A.D. 30 and James writes this letter between 35 and 45, we are looking at the earliest teachings of what it meant to be a Christian. That's why I like the blue jeans and ball cap analogy. That's like my standard favorite uniform. As soon as I'm not in church clothes, which today included flip flops because it's summer, y'all. And I spent way too many years in Florida and flip flops is like standard apparel in Florida. Everybody has two pairs. James is writing A.D. 35 to 45 about faith in the real world. So I want to ask you to turn or tap with me to the book of James, Chapter 5. Chapter 5, we're going to start in verses 1 through 12. So James, Chapter 5, I'm going to read verses 1 through 12, and then we're going to go back and we're going to look at it together. So here we go. James, Chapter 5, starting in verse 1. This is the New International Version. Here we go. Now listen, you rich people. Weep and wail because of the misery that is coming on you. Your wealth has rotted and moths have eaten your clothes. Your gold and silver are corroded. Their corrosion will testify against you and eat your flesh like fire. You have hoarded wealth in the last days. Look, the wages you failed to pay the workers who mowed your fields are crying out against you. The cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord Almighty. You have lived on earth in luxury and self-indulgence. You have fattened yourselves in the day of slaughter. You have condemned and murdered the innocent one who was not opposing you. Be patient then, brothers and sisters, until the Lord's coming. See how the farmer waits for the land to yield its valuable crop, patiently waiting for the autumn and spring rains. You too be patient and stand firm because the Lord's coming is near. Don't grumble against one another, brothers and sisters, or you will be judged. The judge is standing at the door. Brothers and sisters, as an example of patience in the face of suffering, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. As you know, we count as blessed those who have persevered. You have heard of Job's perseverance and seen what the Lord finally brought about. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy. Above all, my brothers and sisters, do not swear, not by heaven or by earth or by anything else. All you need is a simple yes or no. Otherwise, you will be condemned. So let's rewind back here because there's several things going on. If you're following on in your notes, this is letter A in the fill-ins. Here it is. Worshipping wealth poisons the heart. So verse one, now listen. Stop. Let's take this first interjection part. This now listen. That is denoting or bringing emphasis to what he's about to say. This is beginning a new section and possibly possibly a new audience. And here's what I'll say. There's really two views of who the rich people are. You're either going to be in camp or you're going to be in a camp. Who the rich people are. You're either going to be in camp A. The rich people are non-saved rich persons. They are unsaved rich people who are causing the suffering that James encourages the believers to hold on to. So all the injustice that's being described is done by wicked wealthy people who are not Christians. Or the wealthy people are wealthy Christians who are acting in an unjust way. And I need to point this out because how you hear that verse. Now listen you rich people. Weep and wail because of the misery that is coming on you. There's two ways to take this verse. Option A. The wicked wealthy people. That means that the people James was addressing in this section are non-saved. If they are unsaved, if you do not know Jesus, what is your eternal destination? Hell. So the judgment, the misery that is coming on you is the great white throne judgment. However, if you do know Jesus, you can't go to hell because you've been forgiven. Right? So if you do know Jesus, you don't go to the go to hell judgment. You go to a different judgment. What is the name of the judgment that believers go to? It starts with a B. Bema. That's right. The Bema judgment. So you have to make a choice here on chapter 5 verse 1. And I'm going to try to show both as I go through the passage. But I'm going to tell you out front that I'm in camp B. And the reason I'm in camp B is because of the way we read the previous chapters. When James was talking about judgment, it was the Bema judgment. How do I know that? Because believers don't go to the great white throne judgment. So I read both cases. I read both sides. You cannot be in both camps. Right? He can't be addressing wicked people and saved people. And you can't interpret it both ways every single time. So you have to make a choice. It makes more sense to me, given the context of the letter and who the audience is, that the wicked people in this section are wicked believers. Now, just because you're a believer doesn't mean you're not going to be judged. Right? We are going to be judged. We are going to be judged by King Jesus at the Bema judgment. We will have to answer for the wickedness of our life. We don't inherit the eternal punishment for answering for it. But the common idea that just because you're forgiven doesn't mean you don't answer for it is actually false. Believers do go to the Bema judgment. Our job as believers is to live, storing up our treasures in heaven and answering for the way we live. So if the people in this verse are not wicked or unsaved believers, but they are believers who are doing wicked things, you still have to answer for it. So I don't know about you, but like Anthony, I'm super hopeful that Jesus is feeling merciful when he goes to the bad chapters of the life of Bill. Right? I wasn't born a pastor. I wasn't born in a monastery. I've done some really evil things in my life. And I'm super hoping that Jesus is feeling like gracious when he's in those early chapters of the Bill story that don't look as godly as the later chapters of the Bill story. So how you interpret verse one is largely on how you see the audience. It is possible that James switches to address wicked people so that he can switch back and encourage believers to have character and patience under the suffering created by the wicked people. It is also possible that he is addressing the same audience believers, but within those believers there's believers doing some wicked stuff. And so he's calling them out and he's correcting them. I leave it to you which way you want to go, but here's where we got to go. If they are wicked, the judgment is great white throne go to hell. If they are believers, the judgment is Bema and it's reward for eternity based. So then we get to verse two. Here's where both views are going to align. Your wealth has rotted and moths have eaten your clothes. So both are kind of making the same point. The wealth that this group of people he's addressing doesn't last. Today we say you can't take it with you. You can't take it with you when you go. No matter how much money you make on this planet, you ain't taking it into eternity. You will give it to your children who will turn around and pay a lot of it in inheritance tax and that's just where it's going to go. So the idea that your stature in eternity is in any way based on your wealth in this life is what he's attacking. I submit to you that no matter which audience you chose in verse one, they both deserve the same correction. Whether it's wicked people who put all of their hope in their wealth to make them who they are. That's wrong and that gets corrected here. And whether it's the saved people who are valuing their wealth more than their treatment of other believers, both have to be corrected with the same statement. Your wealth has rotted and moths have eaten your clothes. Earthly things like clothes and wealth are still subject to the earthly processes of breaking down and rotting and things like that. Verse three, your gold and silver are corroded. Stop. This one makes a lot of sense to us and I think the word corroded here is really apt because we like to think about the fact that gold is always shiny. Dig up a gold coin off the bottom of the earth and as long as you can deal with the patina, it's still gold. It doesn't rot the way like a banana rots and actually breaks down and gets icky and then turns into banana bread and turns delicious again. Right? Gold doesn't rot in the way bananas rot. But here's where it gets really interesting. So verse three, if you could bring me to the beginning of verse three again, Eric. Your gold and silver are corroded. So the verb corroded is referring to what object? The metals, the gold and silver. But then the second verse, their corrosion will testify against you. So now it's the corrosion on the wealth that's testifying. So he's kind of personifying the wealth and he's saying, listen, the gold and the silver that you've tried to amass, it's going to rot. It's going to corrode. But the fact that you amassed it and you let it corroded, the corrosion that happened is going to testify against you. So the amassing of wealth that corrodes is actually going to testify against you and eat your flesh like fire. So here we go. Here's the difference. If you're in Camp A and the wealthy people are unsaved, then the eat your flesh like fire is a reference to hell. But it doesn't say it will eat your flesh. It says it will eat your flesh like fire. So it's also possible that if you're in the unsafe camp, he's talking about what the corrosion does to the human. The corrosion that's on the amassing of wealth will eat away at you like fire. The word corrosion literally means poison or venom. So the corrosion in the second sentence, the way we read it in English, your gold and silver are corroded. The next verse, their corrosion, it's a completely different Greek word. And it means they're poison. What's the poison? The poison of the wealth. The poison of the wealth itself will testify against you and will eat your flesh like fire. So if you're in Camp B and the audience of this verse is not the wicked people, but the saved people, the saved people are still being poisoned by the amass of wealth. That totally tracks. I feel like I've seen that. I feel like I've seen some people who struggle with Jesus and money. I think the Bible talks a lot about that. Right? You can't serve two masters. So following along the idea that it's the poison of wealth that poisons the heart and will ultimately eat away at you in the same way that fire would eat away at you. That's how you would interpret it if you're in B. If you're in A, then it's a veiled reference to the hell that they're going to anyway because they're unsaved and they don't know Jesus. You have hoarded wealth in the last days. Notice it is not wealth itself that's being judged. It is the hoarding of it. It is the sinful attitude of the amassing of wealth for one's own personal privilege and pleasure. That's the problem. Money is not sinful. Currency is not sinful. Your debit card is not the sign of the devil. Right? Let's just be honest. Every empire has had some form of currency and monetary value. Money is not evil. It's the love of money. It's the hoarding of it. The needing to amass it for the purpose of my own personal pleasure. That is what's being judged in this verse. So just because somebody has more money in their bank account than you does not mean they are automatically more sinful than you. I've also met some very wealthy people who are godly as mess. And they use their wealth to further the kingdom of God. That's amazing. I wish God trusted me with unlimited wealth. It is very apparent he does not. I don't know, does anybody else ever feel that way? Anybody else ever feel like, man, God, I would like you to trust me with a billion dollars. He does not trust me with a billion dollars. Just letting you know that right now. But I want to be clear, verse three, it's not having money that's the problem. It's hoarding money. It's the attitude of the heart towards the money. It's being poisoned by money. That's what's being corrected in verse three. That also mirrors the love of money is the root of all evil, 1 Timothy chapter 6, verse 10. So that clearly does make sense. Then if you scroll and you're filling the notes, here's letter B. Greed leads to sinful injustice. Greed leads to sinful injustice. Now we switch to this next section, verses four through six. He is now going to describe the evil actions of the wealthy people that were corrected in verses one through three. So it doesn't really matter which way you went on verse one. The actions of four through six are the actions of the wealthy people. Here we go, verse four. Look, check this out. The wages you have failed to pay the workers who mowed your fields are crying out against you. What do you call it when you owe someone money that you don't pay? Debt. But that would be if you borrowed their money. What do you call it when you literally are taking money that doesn't belong to you anymore because you were supposed to pay someone to do a job? Theft, stealing, right? I hire you to do a job. You and I sign a contract that says, I will pay you XYZ dollars for ABC job. You do ABC job and I fail to pay you what you are owed. I am literally stealing from you. Because when I signed the contract, that money was given to you. In fact, nowadays when you hire a contractor, normally there is some kind of like, right? There is like a down payment and then you pay the remainder on completion. That's because at the sign of the contract, the money belongs to the contractor and the job belongs to you and that's where the commerce happens. The job is done for you and then the money is paid to the contractor and Bob's drunk, that's how it's done. So these people here in verse four, they are entering into an agreement with workers to do a job and then the job got done per the agreement and then the wealthy people said, yeah, I just don't feel like paying you. Even in the litigious society that we live in, that doesn't usually fly very well. I don't know if any of you ever operated a business, but that's not a great business model, is to allow your customers to just not pay you. So the wealthy people, the greed of needing to hoard the wealth, the greed of needing to amass the money, has poisoned them to the point that they are now stealing from the very people that are working for them. They did the job of mowing the field in this instance. And notice what's crying out. It's the wages. It's the wages that are crying out. Again, James is personifying an inanimate object like money and he's saying the money itself is testifying against you. The very thing that has poisoned your heart, the very thing that you're trying to amass and hold on to, that thing is actually crying out against you. Then the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord Almighty. So not only does the money that you just stole from your contractor because you didn't pay the job right testifying against you, your contractors are praying to God against your injustice based on your greed of your need to hoard the wealth. Verse 5. If America got a letter, this sentence would be in it for sure. You have lived on earth in luxury and self-indulgence. Both of these words, both in Greek and in English, they imply a lifestyle that is focused on one's own personal pleasure. Because what is luxurious to my wife is not necessarily always luxurious to me or to the next person. What you find to be luxury may not be what someone else's measurement of luxury is. What you find self-indulgent, you know what I would find self-indulgent? I want a magic refrigerator that is fully stocked with all of my favorite desserts and drinks all the time. I don't even need three wishes. The genie could just give me that one thing. Every time I open my refrigerator, there's a fresh slice of cheesecake, there's some peanut butter ice cream, there's a cold bottle of Coke Zero, there's a bag of Doritos, you know what I'm saying? Like I might weigh 600 pounds, but I'd be happy. Why? Because that's self-indulgent. I just fixed the refrigerator with all my things, with all the things that I want, the things that I like. If those are things that you like, you should invite me for a pastoral appointment and we could go get those things together. But he's talking to these wealthy people who've hoarded their money for their own purposes, they've stolen money that was rightfully owed to other people, and they've lived a life focused on their own personal indulgence. And then the second sentence of verse five, you have fattened yourselves in the day of slaughter. Now, we don't do a lot of our own butchering anymore because it's just easy enough to go to the grocery store and go get either your steak or your chicken or your whatever. But obviously in their day, they would slaughter the animals right as they were eaten. I've never had, I don't know, did anybody grow up in a butcher's family? Like I never grew up with a butchery, I've never been to an actual butchery. I mean, you're from Jersey, everybody's a butcher. Okay, grew up with a butcher, that's cool, I need to hear that story later. But when I went to Africa and I was in this small little village church with the Maasai, they had a meal after the church service that we got to eat. And one of the guys who was, so it was a bowl of rice and then there was a plate of roasted goat. And you would take a piece of the goat and put it on your rice and you would eat them together. Megan's going, oh, I like, so not taking Megan to Africa, got it, all right. We're going to come up with a different, you're going to offer Barbados, right? We take a mission strip to Barbados. Well, the guy who was serving me the food, his hand, his thumb was like all kind of wrapped up and bloody and there was gauze and tape and I'm going, you're serving me the food, what's wrong with your thumb? And so I turned to my translator who's next to me and I said, why is his thumb cut? And he goes, oh, the goat you're eating was slaughtered when you got here and it was cooked while you were preaching and he cut his thumb while he was slaughtering the goat. That's how fresh this meat was, like it was slaughtered that moment. How did he choose the right goat? Well, normally you raise, like you raise meat rabbits or you raise meat goats or you raise meat cows, you fatten them to a certain point for then they're ready to be eaten. He's using the same analogy here. You fattened yourselves in the day of slaughter. What's the day of slaughter? He's talking about the last days. So let's be very clear. When you read the last days in the Bible, when do the last days begin? A couple thousand years ago, Mike Zola is correct. The last days began on the day of Pentecost, that's my view. The last days began when the age of the church began because this is the last thing Jesus is doing before he comes back for all of us. So if anybody goes, oh my gosh, it's about to be the last days, you'd be like, bro, it's been the last days for like 1996 years. How you hanging? You okay? Like, so what are the last days? The last days is the fact that, y'all, Jesus could come back at any minute. I have plans to go get Mexican after church. I'm hoping Jesus waits until he eats the chips and salsa course, right? But let's be honest. There's this idea of the eminent return of Christ. Jesus could come back at any moment, and when he comes back, he will have judged your life to that moment. So these greedy people who are being unjust to their fellow believers or the wicked wealthy who are being unjust to believers, whichever way you see that, they are just merely getting themselves more ready for the day of judgment. Verse six. Now we get to the real problem. You have condemned and murdered the innocent one who is not opposing you. This one doesn't make as much sense to us in our governmental system, but remember that James is writing to first century Christians who lived under the Roman Empire. They did not have the U.S. Constitution and our entire judicial legal system. What they had was a legal system that was rife with bribery. If you had enough money, you could pre-buy your judgments, which means in this instance, you have condemned and murdered the innocent one who was not opposing you. That means that these people amassed their wealth and used it to buy a judgment to have someone else killed in their place so they could keep committing crime. The poison of money had so infected and infiltrated their heart that their sense of justice and morality was completely built around what I can pay for, what I can buy. And the person who ultimately was condemned, and why do we call it murder? Because that person, through the use of their money, had an innocent person executed in their place. That's what James is saying. And this is not like a super nice Jesus died to save all of us. No. This is a, I committed a crime, but I have enough money, so I'm going to have Steve executed in my place. That's what that means. You murdered the innocent one who wasn't even opposing you. I think maybe it's hard to get away with this today. Maybe it's not. Maybe I just, I fully don't understand how powerful money is, or I've never had to sit through a murder trial to see how difficult they are. But the bigger problem for me is that the way wealth poisons our hearts is still as active and as live and as well today as it was in AD 40 when James wrote this letter. And the fact is, I think there's a lot of people who would use their money to get away with a lot more if the governmental system was capable of being bribed the way it was in this century. So I don't think just because maybe we don't see it as much, I think we should still be very aware of the fact that that level of poison and that level of evil is still very real and still very in us. Then we get to letter C on your notes. Believers' patience should be rooted in Jesus' return. Believers' patience should be rooted in Jesus' return. So here in 7-12, we're going to look at how James encourages believers to deal with suffering and persecution, some of it by the very wealthy people he's been correcting. So again, no matter which way you looked at verse 1, whether the wealthy are wicked or whether the wealthy are saved and just need more discipleship, now we're talking about patience for all believers in suffering and difficulty. So let's look at verse 7. Be patient then, brothers and sisters. Stop. Patience in this verse means to exhibit self-control in difficult circumstances, i.e. in the mistreatment of all the stuff that he just named in the previous six verses. So being patient is exhibiting the self-control in difficult circumstances in context by all this unjust junk that's happening. Then, brothers and sisters. I know I've been saying it again and again. That's the word Adelphos, Adelphoi, meaning all brothers, all sisters, all Christians. So to all of my Christian family, make sure you exhibit self-control during difficult circumstances. That's how that would play out in the New International Bill version. Until, that means until the finish line, you've got to hold on. Hold on for one more day. Thank you. Somebody grew up in the 80s. If you don't know that song, you need a music education, trust me. Be patient, my brothers and sisters, until. James sets the clock on our hearts for how long believers are supposed to endure in suffering. And it's until the Lord's return. Unless we all missed it, Jesus has not returned yet, which means our job is to keep being patient, even in the midst of injustice and suffering. And that's hard. I don't know about you, but I really hate injustice. It irks at me on a primal, angry level when I see injustice occurring. James says, be patient, my idiot brother Bill, until the Lord's coming. And here's my, and here's his example. See how the farmer waits for the land to yield its valuable crop, patiently waiting for the autumn and spring rains. So again, agrarian society, I think the analogy is obvious. Anybody who's ever had a garden, you don't plant tomato seeds, go inside, get a cup of iced tea, and then come out and harvest them. It takes time. And it's during the time that things are happening, whether you see it or not. Right? Especially even when you plant a tomato seed and it hasn't broken the surface yet. That doesn't mean just because you can't see it, things aren't happening. I would argue the same is true about the return of Christ. Just because you can't see what God is doing on planet Earth doesn't mean he's not working. It just means he's working in a way that's not obvious to you at this moment. And then you turn around and maybe you do see something that you see God doing. Either way, our job, like the farmer patiently waiting for the spring rains, I think it's interesting that he chose rain. Why? Because rain is something that falls from the sky to Earth. Where is Jesus going to return? On the clouds of heaven. So in the same way as the farmer might look up and be like, all right, Lord, farmers are southern in my mind. Where that rain at? I got some mitas I need to grow. We're looking up at heaven, and we're like, all right, Jesus, he's getting weird down here. Can you please hurry up? Same analogy. We're looking at the sky, waiting for the return of that which will bring life. Verse 8, you too, meaning just like the farmer in the analogy, you too, be patient, stand firm, because the Lord's coming is near. Now, a lot of people want to look at me and say, okay, Pastor Bill, James wrote this like 1,990 something years ago. How can you possibly say the Lord's return is near? I think the simple answer is because every minute that passes, we are closer to that event. That's just simple math. I don't need to know what time God has selected in the future. That's not for me to know. In fact, Jesus said it's not for any of us to know. But simple math suggests if there is a time in the finite future in which God has preselected for the return of his son, King Jesus, then every minute, every second, every millisecond that goes by, you and I are marching inexorably towards a point in eternity future. You don't have to know when it is to know that every day you wake up, you're one day closer to the event. Does that make sense? So it is always getting nearer. Verse 9, don't grumble against one another, brothers and sisters. There's your audience again. Or you will be judged. The judge is standing at the door. The word grumble here means literally to groan, i.e., to complain strongly. This is another one of those verses that made me choose View B on 5-1 instead of View A. Because if you have View A, that the wicked are unbelievers, then why in verse 9 is James telling fellow believers not to grumble or complain against one another? Like what's the causal factor? Whereas in verse 1 is View B, that the wicked people are saved. The judgment is the Bema judgment, but they're still going to be judged for their wicked stupid crap. Then that totally makes sense in verse 9. Well, I shouldn't judge against... And Steve, I'm just going to keep picking on you because you're looking good today. If Steve is a saved person who's wealthy but treating me in an unjust way, I got to have patience but not grumble against my brother because he's still my brother. He's still a member of God's family. He's still going to be in eternity with me. So again, verse 9 was a large part of why I chose to go this way. You can have the other way if you want. The judge is standing at the door. Who is the judge? Well, I guess that depends on which judgment you go to, isn't it? If you're View A, then it's God the Father, the great white throne. If you're View B, it's Jesus at the Bema judgment. Verse 10, brothers and sisters, do you notice how many times he's saying this? How many times he's saying Adelphoi, Adelphoi. Adelphoi, Adelphoi, Adelphoi. All of you. This applies to all of you and by proxy all of us. As an example of patience in the face of suffering, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. Now, obviously, if James is the first book of the New Testament to be written, that all of the Old Testament has already been written, James growing up as a first century Jew would have had access to what you and I call the Hebrew Bible, the Tanakh, the law, the prophets, the wisdom literature. He would have had access to all of that. He would have read the Old Testament prophet stories the same way you and I have and seen their example of patience in the midst of suffering. Patience is not tested when it's easy. Patience is tested when it's challenging. Patience is tested when it's difficult. It's easy to be patient when you're comfortable. It's a whole lot more challenging to be patient when you're uncomfortable. Verse 11, as you know, we count as blessed those who have persevered. Who is that? Most likely all of the prophets from the Old Testament and anybody who follows their lead, who follows their patient perseverance lead. Now he's going to use another example. You've heard of Job's perseverance and have you not seen what the Lord finally brought about? So now he's encapsulating the entire story of Job into one verse. Job is quite possibly the single greatest example of in the midst of pain, in the midst of suffering, in the midst of trial, in the midst of difficulty. I will not blaspheme the name of the Lord. Even when his wife and his friends are like, dude, just curse God and die. He's like, no, I will not speak badly against the Lord. The funniest part of the book of Job for me is the fact that God takes his children, takes his house, takes his money, makes him sick. He's got boils, but God left his wife alone. Right? Just let that sink in for a minute. I'm going to take your house, I'm going to take your kids, I'm going to take your job, but your wife, I'm going to totally leave her there. I don't know why, especially when you look at the book of Job. Job's wife did not help him in that trial. She was part of the trial, not part of the solution. And ultimately he is redeemed through the perseverance. Perseverance under trial. Perseverance through pain. And I would say based on the context of this verse, perseverance through the mistreatment of the wealthy people who are doing all of these unjust things in your presence. Persevere through all of that. Why? Because the end of verse 11, the Lord is full of compassion and mercy. I've got to tell you this, even though it may not feel like it when you're in the midst of trial, God's character does not change. Even when it doesn't feel like it and you're in the midst of suffering, you're in the midst of pain, God's character does not change. My ADHD just went off, I forgot to tell you. I got a text from Nancy Thomas this morning. So those of you who are in our church messaging group in the app, Nancy Thomas is currently out of town. She is at her daughter's house. Her daughter just had a baby yesterday. So praise God, baby was born fine. Julie is the name of Nancy's daughter. Julie's baby was born via C-section and they couldn't get the bleeding to stop. Her blood wasn't clotting correctly. So they transferred Julie from the hospital where the baby was born to a more intense care unit. And she spent the night there. She was intubated. They put her out to try to help her body calm down, help the clotting and everything else. I got a text from Nancy Thomas. And so immediately we just put the alert out. And this is why the messaging group in the app is so important. So we could stay connected on days like Friday and Saturday when we're not here. We asked the whole church to start praying for Julie, pray for her healing. This morning, Julie woke up, the intubation is coming out, and she's going back to her baby this afternoon. Praise God. I can't think of a more poignant example that in the midst of trial, God's character doesn't change. And praise God for people like Nancy and Thomas, who in the midst of trial didn't fall into a puddle on the floor, but said, my God answers prayer and my church prays for me. And she knew that if she reached out to us. Now I did, just so you guys all understand, before I put it in the messaging group, I texted Nancy and I asked for permission. So, you know, when you guys ask me to pray for you, don't think I'm just all of a sudden sharing everybody's laundry with everybody else. No, Nancy said, yes, please get my church to pray for me. And so we shared it in the app and you just being being being being all night long. People got us faithful. I'm praying for you. I'm praying for you. And then boom, wake up. That's exactly what patients under trial looks like. That's exactly what faith in the midst of fear looks like. And that's Nancy. That's not me. I just get the benefit of she's not here. So I get to brag on her. That's exactly what James is talking about. And then we get to verse 12 and verse 12 kind of takes a little bit of a jogs. A little weird. Above all, my brothers and sisters, that word Adelphoi, the plural of Adelphos, Adelphos, one believer, Adelphoi, multiple believers. Above all, my brothers and sisters, do not swear. Stop. This verse has been mistaught more times than I can count. So let's let's put it on the record. Let's get it straight. James is not referring to swearing in the way you and I use it in the English language today. He is not referring to vulgarity. Does that mean that vulgarity didn't exist in the first century? No, it did. They had their choice flavor words that were probably used by all of their military servicemen in the same way that our soldiers today. I mean, we literally talk and have a mouth like a sailor. You could have added in there soldier, airman, coastie. You could have added all of them. But that is not what this verse is about. So please, please, please do not read this verse and think that he is talking about vulgar language. He's not. There are other verses that refer to the type of speech we are to use and not to use. This is just not that. He says, do not swear. And then he gives it a definition. Not by heaven, nor by earth or by anything else. Stop. He is talking about oaths, not curse words or swear words or cussing, whatever the term is you grew up with. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about making an oath by any other thing or any other standard. Why would he say that? Well, let's take the context. In the first six verses, we saw unjust treatment of people in seven through eleven. He gives this very impassioned believers. Hold on. I don't know about you, but have you ever been in the midst of trial? Been in the midst of suffering and you like you get just like a little too much and you're like, I swear to God, if this doesn't stop and you fill in the blank with something else, anybody mean just me? OK, I'm the only one that doesn't have patience. I get it. That's what he's talking about. What he's saying is in the midst of trial, in the midst of suffering, in the midst of trying to hold on and hold on to your patience. Don't swear by anything else. Don't swear by heaven. Don't swear by earth. Don't, bro, I swear by this Coke bottle if you don't shut up. Right? That's what he's talking about. He's saying don't make oaths that are guaranteed by anything else. And then the rest of verse 12, all you need to say is a simple yes or no. Otherwise you will be condemned. So the question has to be asked, where does James get the idea that we shouldn't be swearing by anything else? Don't make an oath based on some heavenly thing. I swear by the moon. I swear by the sun. I swear by these Chick-fil-A fries. Y'all got to figure out how to have chicken on Sundays. Right? Let me show you where James gets the idea. Matthew chapter 5, verse 33 to 37. This is the words of Jesus himself in the Sermon on the Mount. Again, you have heard it said to the people long ago, do not break your oath, but fulfill to the Lord the vows you have made. But I tell you, do not swear an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is God's throne, or by earth, for it is footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. And do not swear by your head, for you cannot make even one hair white or black. I have both. All you need to say is simply yes or no. Anything beyond this comes from the evil one. Does that not sound like exactly what James is saying? James is paraphrasing his brother's teaching here. And he's saying, we as Christians are never to make an oath by something else. Why? Because when you make an oath by something else, right? It was very often popular. I swear on the life of my child, blah-de-blah-de-blah-de-blah. The problem is, is the life of your child doesn't belong to you. So why are you swearing by something that doesn't belong to you? You can't swear by heaven, because it's God's. You can't swear by earth, because it's God's. You can't swear by Jerusalem, it's Jesus's. You can't even swear by the hairs on your own head, because you don't make them grow. What he's saying is, you do not hold the authority in the universe to make an oath by anything. So just quit it. Stop with the hubris. Stop with the idea that you can swear by anything, and just say yes, or just say no. We as Christians are not meant to make an oath by anything. Why? Because our word should be good enough, because we are people of righteousness. You ask me to do something, and I say yes. I don't need to go, you go, Pinky swear? No. I said yes, that means I'll be there. And that's the kind of integrity the people of God are supposed to have. When I ask for your help, you say, yeah, I'm going to be there. The automatic response should be, well, should we text Steve? No, he's good for it. He said he'll be here, I'll be here. If he wasn't going to be here, he's the kind of man he would have called me and let me know. Right? Things happen. Travel happens. Sometimes you get sick. Sometimes things happen. But integrity says, I said yes, so I'm going to be there. If I'm not going to be there, I'm going to call it ahead. Why is that important? Because so often it's in times of suffering that our integrity wanes. And that's how I think all of this goes together. The first part is talking about addressing the wealthy people, whether they're saved or unsaved. The second part illustrates the injustice that happens when wealth poisons your heart. The next part is all believers should stand in the face of injustice with patience and suffering. And then he closes it out. Don't let your integrity slip. Don't try to make an oath by anything else. You're just you. Be you in the moment. Yes, yes, no, no. And don't let your suffering push your integrity to swear by something that you don't have the authority to do. And that's how I think all of that goes together. So let me give you our takeaway as we bring this in for a landing. Believers should avoid the poison of greed and root their patience in the return of Jesus. Wealth, money, mullah, cheddar. Pick a word. I don't care. Dollar dollar bills, y'all. Pick one. Whichever one of those words fits your generation. It is still as poisonous today as it was in 80 40. I know because I see it. Some of you are not in your heads. Maybe you see it. Maybe you see it in your family. Maybe you see it in your friends. Maybe you see it in your own heart. We need to be constantly aware that wealth, that the pursuit, the love of money can poison us to the point that we lose our integrity. We lose our compassion. We lose our justice. We lose everything that makes us look like Jesus. Why? Because ultimately when you love money to the point that you hoard it, you have replaced Jesus with money as your idol. And then it begins to poison the way you live. Whether you view five one is believers or unbelievers, wealth will poison the heart of any human being. All believers are required to be patient and persevere even in the midst of suffering, even in the midst of pain. Why? Because we're holding on for Jesus to come back. And until he comes back, our orders have not changed.