The Call
Monday, February 21, 2022 9:46 AM
I AM A CATALYST: The Call
Matthew 28:16–20
Key Thought: A Catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates
change in others.
16 Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the
mountain where Jesus had told them to go.
17 When they saw him, they worshiped him; but some
doubted.
18 Then Jesus came to them and said, “All authority in
heaven and on earth has been given to me.
19 Therefore go and make disciples of all nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son
and of the Holy Spirit,
20 and teaching them to obey everything I have
commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the
very end of the age.”
-------------
16 Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the
mountain where Jesus had told them to go.
Then - action in response to the direction in verse 10,
go to Galilee
I AM A CATALYST Page 1

Eleven disciples - the group was in unity despite the
fear of the crucifixion
Told them to go - the group was obedient despite the
fear of the crucifixion
17 When they saw him, they worshiped him; but some
doubted.
Saw him - the fear of the crucifixion faded in the sight
of Jesus
Worshiped him - this is always the first response to
the Savior
Some doubted - they were doubting the resurrection
or the mission, but not the divinity
18 Then Jesus came to them and said, “All authority in
heaven and on earth has been given to me.
Then - Jesus' words are a response to their worship
and doubt
All authority - Jesus is given all authority as the
resurrected Messiah, Savior, and King
Given to me - in response to Jesus submission, God
the Father gives all authority to Jesus
19 Therefore go and make disciples of all nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son
I AM A CATALYST Page 2

baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son
and of the Holy Spirit,
Therefore - because all authority has been given to
Jesus
Go - the process of making disciples requires to get
outside of the "comfort zone"
Make disciples - a disciple is one who learns and lives
by the teachings of Jesus
All nations - the required them to reach Gentiles
which was against their understanding
Baptizing them - the act of being "submersed" in
Name of the - this is not a formula; unlike John's
baptism of repentance, this is a baptism of belief
20 and teaching them to obey everything I have
commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the
very end of the age.”
Teaching - disciple making requires teaching
Them - teaching Gentiles was a foreign concept to Jewish
thinking
To obey - the purpose of teaching is to engender obedience
Everything - we don't get to pick and choose what parts to
obey and disobey
I AM A CATALYST Page 3

What is a Catalyst:
A Catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates change in
others.
How to be a Catalyst:
1. Recognize doubt must be overcome (v 16-17)
2. Remember Christ's authority & promise (v18,20)m
3. Remove your comfort zone restriction (19)
I AM A CATALYST Page 4