The fossil record
from
The fossil record is one of the best opportunities to compare the competing stories of creation and
evolution. The fossil record is real. The animals whose remains we can study lived and died. The first
big question we need to ask is which story, creation or evolution, better predicts what the fossil record
should look like? Here is a breif introduction to the fossil record evidence.
EVOLUTION’S STORY ABOUT FOSSILS CREATION’S STORY ABOUT FOSSILS
Evolution claims the fossil record is a record Creation claims the fossil record is a record
of life. The remains found are the record of of death. The remains found are the record of
how life on earth evolved over hundreds of death on a massive worldwide scale during
millioins of years. If this is true, the following the catastrophic flood event. If this is true,
predictions should be visible in the fossil the following predictions should be visible in
record: the fossil record.
a: lower layers contain less evolved animals a: lower layers contain fully formed animals
b: middle layers contain transitional forms b: simple & complex animals appear together
c: steady rate of extinction over time c: a massive extinction event
THE FOSSIL RECORD TIMELINE THE ELEVATOR OF TIME
The fossil record is like an elevator with
The Paleozoic or ‘early life’ era is characterized
by the quick appearance of hard bodied animals. different “floor groups” representing different
By the middle of this era fish and some land periods in earth history.
animals appear. Towards the end, large reptiles
and coniferous plants appear. CENOZOIC 11: Quaternary
(65m - Today) 10: Tertiary
The Mesozoic or ‘middle life’ era is characterized
as the “age of reptiles”. Large land and flying 9: Cretaceous
reptiles appear here as well as squid-like MESOZOIC 8: Jurassic
(251m - 65m)
sea creatures. Towards the end of this period, 7: Triassic
mammals, birds, and flowering plants also
appear.
6: Permian
5: Carboniferous
The Cenozoic or ‘recent life’ era is characterized 4: Devonian
PALEOZOIC
by flowering plants, trees and shrubs. The (542m - 251m) 3: Silurian
majority of bird and animals groups we recognize 2: Ordovician
today, including humans, appear in this period. 1: Cambrian
PRE-CAMBRIAN
0: Pre-Cambrian
(3.8t - 542m)
© 2024 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.
LAYERS
OF
SEDIMENTARY
ROCK

The fossil record
from
The evidence from the fossil record is not mysterious. It is very clear. Take a look at the evidence
and decide for yourself which story about earth history best fits the evidence from the fossil record.
Creation’s claims about the fossil record are verifiable! Evolution’s claims are falsified. It’s that simple.
THE FOSSIL RECORD EVIDENCE COMPARE FOR YOUSELF
1: Sudden Appearance: The fossils we Evolution’s claims about the fossil record:
observe in the fossil record appear fully a: lower layers contain less evolved animals
formed without any previous evolutionary b: middle layers contain transitional forms
ancestor. c: steady rate of extinction over time
2: Consistency of Fossil Forms: Creation’s claims about the fossile record:
Creatures in the fossil record remain a: lower layers contain fully formed animals
virtually the same as they appear in all rock b: simple & complex animals appear together
layers. c: a massive extinction event
3: Lack of Transitional Forms:
There are no known transitional forms
agreed upon by the scientific community.
4: Order of the Fossil Groups:
Of the fossil groups that do exist, they do THE FLOOD & THE FOSSIL RECORD
not appear in the order predicted by the
evolutionary model. If the Bible’s story of the flood is historical,
how would that affect the way the fossil
5: Living Fossils: record would be formed?
A ‘living fossil’ is an animals who appears to
be the same creature as found in the fossil a: The majority of the animals in the fossil
record. These living fossils illustrate that record would appear together, having died in
absence from the fossil record do not equate a catastrophic event.
to extinction.
b: As ocean waters rose, different
6: Extinction ecosystems would have been overtaken and
The fossil record does not show gradual deposited in the fossil record, there would be
extinction over time. It demonstrates a groups noticeable in the fossil record.
massive worldwide catastrophe in which all
the major forms of animal life we know today c: Animals would die and be buried rapidly in
died and were buried suddenly. sedimentary rock in a watery environment.
© 2024 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.