01: Origins of the Universe
Thursday, June 20, 2024 7:30 AM
Definitions
Micro Evolution: changes in living creatures over time
Macro Evolution: the origin of all living creatures from a
single common ancestor
Cosmic Evolution: the origin and evolution of the entire
universe
Creation: God created the universe, planet earth, and
variance of life we observe in six 24 hour days.
Big Bang: All the matter and energy in the universe
expanded at the speed of light for less than a second from
the "cosmic egg" or "singularity" before slowing down to its
current rate of expansion. All elements, stars, planets, and
life itself evolved on its own over the past 13.8 billion years
Why This Debate Matters
If Genesis 1-3 are mythology and not history:
a: Human beings are not image-bearers of God
b: Sin is not a part of reality.
c: A Savior is not needed because sin is not real.
VBS Operation Creation Page 1

c: A Savior is not needed because sin is not real.
d: The gospel is false because sin is not real.
e: Christianity is false because Jesus isn't a Savior.
If we give up the Garden, we give up the Gospel!
This does not mean we need to reject the scientific method of
learning through observation and experimentation. But, we
must reject the naturalism which limits scientific investigation
and allow for supernatural or divine causation if the evidence
warrants it.
Is the creation account in Genesis mythology or history?
NT References to the Genesis account
Jude 14 - refers to generations from Adam to Enoch
Hebrews 4:3,4,10 - all refer to God's seventh day rest4
2 Peter 2:5 - refers Noah and the flood as historical
2 Peter 3:5 - speaks of creation "out of water"
2 Corinthians 11:3 - refers to the deception of Eve
Ephesians 5:31 - quotes Gen 2:24 (man shall leave…)
Matt 1:1 - refers to Abraham as a historical figure
Luke 3:37 - refers to Adam as a historical figure
Jesus on Genesis
Matt 11:23-24 - refers to the destruction of Sodom
Matt 23:35 - refers to Abel as a historical person
Matt 24:37-39 - refers to Noah and the flood
VBS Operation Creation Page 2

Matt 19:4-5 / Mark 10:6-9 refers to God's creation of male
and female and the foundation of marriage
Science vs Faith
When properly defined, there is no conflict between these
two things:
Science is learning by observing of the natural world
Faith is trusting in we can't see based on the evidence we
can.
KEY TERM: Methodological Naturalism
The limiting of scientific explanation to only natural
phenomena.
This automatically excludes any supernatural or divine
conclusions BEFORE any investigation is made!
Example: Crime scene, no suspects over 5' 7"
Creation vs Evolution
The cause of the conflict between Creation and Evolution is
between Naturalism and Christianity.
VBS Operation Creation Page 3

We are both evaluating the evidence, but begin with
different assumptions, therefore we will reach different
conclusions. The only question left is which one is right?
Creation & Evolution are MUTALLY EXCLUSIVE
These viewpoint tell two different stories that CANNOT be
harmonized. If one is true, the other is FALSE by default.
Examples:
Beginning of the universe:
Spontaneous self-generation vs created by divine creator.
Origin of life:
Spontaneous generation from non-life vs created by a
supernatural life-giver.
Variance in Lifeforms:
Macro-evolution is true and accounts for all differences in
living things vs all "kinds" were created the way they are by
a divine creator, micro evolution is true.
Human Beings:
Humans are descended from the same common ancestor as
all other living things vs human beings are a special creation
of the divine creator.
Earth History:
Uniformitarianism is true, everything has always been the
way we observe it today. Catastrophism is true, there have
been major catastrophic events in the past which have
VBS Operation Creation Page 4

been major catastrophic events in the past which have
affected the planet and life on earth.
Age of the Earth:
The earth and life on it are both very old vs the earth and
life on it are relatively young.
Problems with the Big Bang
1: The origin problem
The universe is either:
a: eternal
b: self-caused
c: requires a cause outside itself
2: You can't get something from nothing!
The Law of Causality
Effects have causes.
Every effect we observe in the natural realm always has a
cause that precedes it.
3: 1st Law of Thermodynamics
Matter & energy do not create themselves
4: 2nd Law of Thermodynamics
VBS Operation Creation Page 5

We are steadily running out of usable energy.
5: The Inflation Problem
The Big Bang model does not explain what caused the
universe to exist and expand, nor what caused it to slow
down. It assumes it had to because the universe is as we
observe it today.
6: The Anthropic Principle
As we observe it today, the universe seems to be finely
tuned for life on earth to exist.
How does the universe show us God exists?
1: The universe requires a super-natural cause to exist
2: The universe appears to be finely tuned.
Warning: The "First Cause" argument does not lead directly to
the God of the Bible, it does however show the following:
The universe is either:
a: eternal
b: self-caused
c: requires a cause outside itself
3: What does a "universe beginning cause" look like?
VBS Operation Creation Page 6

3: What does a "universe beginning cause" look like?
Spaceless - outside of space
Timeless - outside of time
Immaterial - not comprised of matter
Powerful - able to generate the energy in the first place
Intelligent - able to fine tune the variables in space
Agent - purely material things don't think or act
That sounds an awful lot like the God of Bible.
VBS Operation Creation Page 7

02: The Age of the Earth
Monday, June 24, 2024 7:58 AM
The Bible's Description
a: 2,000 - 4,000 years from Creation to Abraham
b: 2,000 years from Abraham to Jesus
c: 2,000 years from Jesus to today.
Even allowing for generational compression and
computational errors, creation is less than 10,000 years old.
Are the "days" of creation 24 hour days?
Hebrew word "Yom" has three meanings:
A full 24 hour day
The opposite of night
A reference to a specific period (back in my day)
What clues exist to help us decide?
Modifying numbers - always refers to 24 hour days
"evening and morning" - two parts of a single day
The 10 Commandments use creation week as the
reason for the 7th day Sabbath rest
What about the Day-Age Theory?
2 Peter 3:8 says "a day is like a thousand years and a
VBS Operation Creation Page 8

2 Peter 3:8 says "a day is like a thousand years and a
thousand years is like a day". Couldn't this means the days
are not 24 hours?
The text of this verse is a comparison, not a definition. Peter
is comparing "a day" to "a thousand years", not defining a
day as a thousand years.
Even if this were true, it would only add 6,000 years to the
age of the earth, not billions.
Radiometric Dating Methods
The 2nd Law of Thermodynamics states the universe is
running out of usable energy. Matter itself breaks down
over time. The practice of measuring the decay of a parent
element into its daughter element is called Radiometric
Dating. The most common form of this measurement is
Carbon14.
What is Carbon14
A carbon14 is created when solar radiated particles bombard
earth's atmosphere and add one neutron to a Nitrogen14
atom.
Over time, Carbon14 decays back to a Nitrogen14 atom. It
takes 5,730 years for half of the Carbon14 atoms in a
sample to decay back to Nitrogen14. This is called the half-
life.
After 10 half-lives or 57,300 years, there should be 0.1
VBS Operation Creation Page 9

After 10 half-lives or 57,300 years, there should be 0.1
percent Carbon14 left in the sample. After 100,000 years any
sample should be completely lacking any Carbon14
Carbon 14 Evidence
Coal is considered to take millions of years to form. It is also
found in many places and makes a good material to sample.
10 coal samples from 8 different US states were taken from
the US Department of Energy's Coal Sample Bank
maintained by Penn State University and sent to the
foremost Carbon14 lab in the nation for testing.
They were dated from 34 - 311 million years old. ALL 10
samples included Carbon14!
Diamonds are assumed to take millions of years to form. 12
Diamonds were collected from 4 different sites in Africa and
tested for Carbon14.
All 12 sample diamonds contained Carbon14!
Assumptions in Radiometric Dating
There was no daughter element in the beginning.
The elements have not been affected by outside factors.
The rate of decay has always been same.
VBS Operation Creation Page 10

Volcanic Rock Study
5 rocks were collected and sent to a lab for age analysis
without disclosing their discovery location. The rocks were
tested using the Potassium-Argon method of dating. The
rocks were dated from 1 million to 35 million years old.
After the results were published, the location of the rocks
were revealed as the Mount St. Helen's eruption on May 18,
1980.
Evidence for a Young Earth
Human Population
Evolution contends humans have been on earth for millions
of years. If this is true, there should be more humans alive
today than could fit on the planet!
However, if you calculate human population based on the
Biblical story of a flood and repopulation by Noah and his
sons. The population count comes to between 6.7 to 8.1
billion people. There are about7.9 billion people alive today.
The Oldest Tree
The oldest tree on planet earth is a Great Basin bristlecone
pine located in the white mountains of California
nicknamed, "Methuselah". It is 4,800 years old.
VBS Operation Creation Page 11

Dinosaur Soft Tissue
Multiple dinosaur fossils have been found to have soft
tissue and even blood cells still in them. These types of
tissue should not have survived 100,000 years let alone
millions.
A Warning About The Word "Proof"
Evidence for a young or old earth cannot empirically prove
the age of the earth. the assumptions one brings to
evaluating the evidence will always affect the outcome. The
question becomes which "story" (creation or evolution)
best makes sense of the actual data describing the age of
the earth.
VBS Operation Creation Page 12

03: The Fossil Record
Tuesday, June 25, 2024 9:46 AM
Competing Stories: Creation vs Evolution
If evolution is true:
a: the fossil record is a record of life
b: lower layers contain less evolved animals
c: middle layers contain transitional forms
d: steady rate of extinction over time
If creation is true:
a: the fossil record is a record of life
b: lower layers contain fully formed animals
c: simple & complex animals appear together
d: a massive extinction event is visible
The Fossil Record Timeline:
An elevator of time
Cenozoic (65m - Today)
11: Quaternary
10: Tertiary
Mesozoic (251m - 65m)
9: Cretaceous
8: Jurassic
7: Triassic
Paleozoic (542m - 251m)
6: Permian
5: Carboniferous
VBS Operation Creation Page 13

5: Carboniferous
4: Devonian
3: Silurian
2: Ordovician
1: Cambrian
Pre-Cambrian (3.8t - 542m)
The Paleozoic or 'early life' era is characterized by the quick
appearance of hard bodied animals. By the middle of this era
fish and some land animals appear. Towards the end, large
reptiles and coniferous plants appear.
The Mesozoic or 'middle life' era is characterized as the "age of
reptiles". Large land and flying reptiles appear here as well as
squid-like sea creatures. Towards the end of this period,
mammals, birds, and flowering plants also appear.
The Cenozoic or 'recent life' era is characterized by flowering
plants, trees and shrubs. The majority of bird and animals
groups we recognize today, including humans, appear in this
period.
The Fossil Record Evidence:
1: Sudden Appearance: The fossils we observe in the fossil
record appear fully formed without any previous evolutionary
ancestor.
The Cambrian Explosion:
The Cambrian Explosion refers to the sudden appearance of the
VBS Operation Creation Page 14

The Cambrian Explosion refers to the sudden appearance of the
majority of the known animals forms today in a rock layer
thought to be 541 million years ago.
Quotes about the Cambrian Explosion:
Stephen J. Gould, (late) (agnostic)
Evolutionary Paleontologist at Harvard University
"The Cambrian explosion was the most remarkable and
puzzling event in the history of life."
Richard Dawkins, (atheist)
Evolutionary Biologist at Oxford University
"The Cambrian strata of rocks, vintage about 600 million years
are the oldest in which we find the most of the major
invertebrate groups. And we find many of them already in an
advanced state of evolution, the very first time they appear. It
is as though they were just planted there, without any
evolutionary history."
George Gaylord Simpson
American Museum of Natural History
Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard
"Most new species, genera, and families, and nearly all
categories above the level of family appear in the records
suddenly, and are not led up to by known, gradual, completely
transitional sequences."
2: Consistency of Fossil Forms:
Creatures in the fossil record remain virtually the same as they
appear in all rock layers.
VBS Operation Creation Page 15

appear in all rock layers.
3: Lack of Transitional Forms:
There are no known transitional forms agreed upon by the
scientific community.
4: Order of the Fossil Groups:
Of the fossil groups that do exist, they do not appear in the
order predicted by the evolutionary model.
5: Living Fossils:
A 'living fossil' is an animals who appears to be the same
creature as found in the fossil record. These living fossils
illustrate that absence from the fossil record do not equate to
extinction.
6: Extinction
The fossil record does not show gradual extinction over time. It
demonstrates a massive worldwide catastrophe in which all the
major forms of animal life we know today died and were buried
suddenly.
The Flood & The Fossils
If the Bible's story of the flood is historical, how would that
affect the way the fossil record would be formed?
a: The majority of the animals in the fossil record would appear
together, having died in a catastrophic event.
b: As ocean waters rose, different ecosystems would have been
overtaken and deposited in the fossil record, there would be
VBS Operation Creation Page 16

overtaken and deposited in the fossil record, there would be
groups noticeable in the fossil record.
c: Animals would die and be buried rapidly in sedimentary rock
in a watery environment.
VBS Operation Creation Page 17

04: Biological Evolution
Wednesday, June 26, 2024 7:16 AM
In order for evolution's story of the history of life on this planet
to be true, several key facts must be assumed true. However,
when the evidence is examined, there is little to no support for
these foundational facts on which evolution rests. Without
these assumptions, evolution can never take place.
3 Assumptions of Evolution
a: Biogenesis
Biogenesis means "beginning of life". The Law of Biogenesis
states, "Life arises only from pre-existing life, not from non-
living material"
Ex: Louis Pasteur
b: Nature of First Life
Even if life could arise from non-life, that doesn't mean
evolution is true. The first life had to also be able to reproduce.
Without reproduction, evolution can never happen.
c: Genetic Information
Even if self-reproducing life could spontaneously generate out
of non-living material, this still doesn't prove evolution is true.
Life is encoded with genetic information that simply can't be
explained as random.
Evolution requires but cannot explain how life spontaneously
appeared, able to replicate, or is able to generate new
genetically encoded information.
VBS Operation Creation Page 18

genetically encoded information.
The Miller-Urey Experiment
In 1953, scientists Stanley Miller and Harold Urey attempted to
simulate the conditions of the early earth in a closed system
containing certain gasses, water vapor, and an electric spark to
generate energy. The experiment was found to create some
amino acids, but did not create anything close to a living cell.
Example: Lego Bag amino acid protein chain
Evolution's Evidence
Over the years since Darwin, several pieces of scientific
evidence have been offered as proof of evolution. These
alleged proofs have since been found to be false.
a: Embryonic Recapitulation
Ernest Haeckel asserted that embryos re-experience the
evolutionary process in their development. This has now been
demonstrated to be false.
VIDEO: Gill Slits and Embryos
b: Horse Evolution Charts
Textbooks have often included pictures of the alleged evolution
of horses from smaller mammals. This has now been
demonstrated to be false.
c: Natural Selection
VBS Operation Creation Page 19

c: Natural Selection
Natural selection is claimed to be the mechanism which drives
evolution. But, nature can only select animals that already exist,
this does nothing to demonstrate how new animals come into
existence.
d: Animal Adaptation
Animals can and do adapt to their environments. Also called
'micro-evolution' this type of small change within a single
animal form does nothing to prove one kind of animal can
become a completely different kind of creature.
e: Similar Structures
Similarity in form or structure of an animal, say apes and
humans, is often argued as evidence of a common ancestor.
Observing the structure of any two animals does not prove
their ancestry. This type of evidence can just as easily prove a
common Designer rather than a common ancestor.
Evolutionary Impossibility
Ex: The Giraffe's heart
A giraffe has an impressively strong heart that is able to pump
blood against gravity up it’s 8ft long neck to its brain. Without
this powerful heart, it could not live. But, when it lowers its
head to drink water, if the giraffe did not have unique valves in
its circulator system, the blood pressure from its heart to its
brain would cause it to have a stroke. The heart, valves, and
neck muscles all have to work together to accomplish this. It’s
hard to see how this evolved over time.
VBS Operation Creation Page 20

hard to see how this evolved over time.
VIDEO: Giraffe Circulatory System
The Mousetrap Problem
In “The Origin of Species” Darwin admits,
“If it could be demonstrated that any complex organ existed
which could not possibly have been formed by numerous,
successive, slight modifications, my theory would absolutely
break down.”
Dr. Michael Behe, professor of biological sciences at Lehigh
University in Pennsylvania has offered an answer to Darwin’s
challenge called, “Irreducible Complexity.” Like a mousetrap, all
parts of a system are essential for that system to function. Dr
Behe offers the bacterial flagellum which operates like an
outboard motor on a boat and would not be able to function
without all its parts as an example.
VBS Operation Creation Page 21

05: Human Evolution
Thursday, June 27, 2024 9:29 AM
Videos Needed:
How Do We Know Which Fossils Are Human?
Proof for God - Vestigial Organs
Evolution's story of the history of humanity is one of gradual
modification from the alleged single common ancestor of all
life, through several ape-like stages until finally humans arrive
on the scene. Is this verified by the fossil record? Let's look at
the evidence.
Key Term:
Paleoanthropology is the scientific study of human evolution.
Hominin is the group of all modern and extinct humans.
Hominid is the group of all modern and extinct humans and
apes.
Australopithecus is an extinct group of creatures believed to be
the evolutionary ancestor to modern day humans.
A Broken Record:
The alleged story of human evolution has several key problems
with the fossil record.
a: Broken Timeline
There are large gaps of time in the fossil record in which few
hominin fossils appear.
VBS Operation Creation Page 22

hominin fossils appear.
b: Broken Bones
Typical hominin fossils are a small selection of bones or
fragments. This makes is difficult to accurately define their size,
shape, etc.
c: Broken Agreement
With the scant fossil evidence available, experts in the field do
not agree with one another. This leaves everything open to
interpretation again and again.
This are the different species of humans that evolution claims
existed:
Modern Humans
Homo Sapiens,
Emerged 200,00 years ago
Neanderthals
Homo Neanderthalensis
400,000 - 40,000 years ago
Homo Heidelbergensis
700,000 - 200,000 years ago
Homo Erectus
100,000 - 1.9m years ago
Homo Habilus
1.4m - 2.4m years ago
VBS Operation Creation Page 23

1.4m - 2.4m years ago
Darwin of the Gaps:
various groups within the genus Homo represent inferred
relationships with little to no actual fossil evidence. These
alleged connections are “inferred” because of the assumption
that evolution is assumed true. This is a combination of
confirmation bias and blind faith. Whenever there is a gap in
the evidence, the belief in evolution takes over. This is not
belief based on evidence, it is belief based on assumption.
What about Lucy:
Lucy is the name given to the most famous australopithecine
fossil discovered. She is often described as walking on two legs
as an ape-like ancestor to modern humans. However, there are
several problems with this claim:
a: Only 40% of Lucy’s skeleton was recovered, the rest of her
morphology had to be reconstructed with means 60% of the
Lucy example is what she was chosen to look like.
b: It was claimed that the shape of Lucy’s pelvis suggested she
walked on two legs. However it was later revealed her pelvis
was “badly crushed” with “distortion and cracking” and had to
be reconstructed. Thus, the conclusion of walking on two legs
was from the choices made during reconstruction, not the fossil
evidence itself.
c: It was now been established that australopithecines are like
apes, not humans. But this is only after she was celebrated
VBS Operation Creation Page 24

apes, not humans. But this is only after she was celebrated
around the world as the “missing link”.
No Other Links Exist:
If evolution is true, there should be transitional forms to
illustrate this development. There is currently no good
candidates to establish a clear ancestral link between apes and
modern humans.
Shared DNA:
It is often alleged that humans share DNA with chimpanzees
and this is evidence that both evolved from the same ancestor.
This is not true. Two people can own the same car but that
doesn’t mean they bought it from the same dealership.
Likewise, similarities in sequence do not prove singularity of
source.
a: DNA is encoded with four bases, represented by the letters
A, G, C, T which occur in pairs A-T and C-G. Because of this, any
two sections of DNA from any two living things will have a one
in four chance to matching at any one point. This doesn’t mean
humans and hydrangeas share a common ancestor. It simply
shows we are all encoded with the same DNA language.
b: Humans and chimpanzees share many traits. Both breathe
air. Both drink water. Both eat fruit. Both have similar types of
internal organs. Both have eyes, ears, noses and mouths.
Because of these facts, there is no real surprise to see there are
shared sections of DNA between them. The greater point is that
the DNA structures are about 400 million letters different!
VBS Operation Creation Page 25

A Word About Words:
Research has shows an explosion of language, art, and culture
in the recent history of human development. Evolution offers
no explanation for the rapid appearance of human-like culture
from apes.
VBS Operation Creation Page 26