Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Captain Bill. Pastor Bill could not be here today, so he sent me instead. I hope to be able to help you. I hope to be able to share with you. And quite frankly, if you don't like anything that Captain Bill has to say, you can let Pastor Bill know that on your Kinect card, and he will get back to you this week. As we have been planning for for several weeks, today is our Vision Sunday. And I would just like to say a special thank you to Mr. Phil Spinelli, who not only found this amazingly real and actual ship's wheel, but it spins! So now I have a toy for the entire time I get to talk. This is great. Give the ADHD preacher something that spins like a fidget while he's talking. That's great. It's a sort of a fun way, but for the last several months, as I have been talking about who we are as a church and where we're going, I have been talking about our church like we are a ship. And for the last, I would say, eight years, our ship has been in the dry dock being repaired and rebuilt. But before I tell you that, I need to clarify the kind of ship that we are. Because there are several different kinds of ships. The first thing that came to mind, quite honestly, is a pirate ship. Everybody say, Arrrrr. Right? But pirate ships are just in it for themselves. What makes a pirate ship different than a naval ship is there is no loyalty to the crown. The pirates are only loyal to themselves. What also makes a pirate ship a pirate ship is they grow by stealing from others. They grow either by stealing from other boats or stealing from other ports. And they are only loyal to the captain as long as the captain makes them money. If the captain doesn't make them money, he will find himself marooned on an island. And his first mate will take over and there will be a mutiny. So our church cannot be a pirate ship. Some of you may have been on a cruise ship. Right? How many people have been on a cruise? Lucky people. Right? On a cruise ship, there is a very real sense of mission. There is a hierarchy. There is a structure. There is leadership. There is organization. But all of the leadership and organization that is on a cruise ship is designed to focus on the happiness of the guests on board the cruise ship. They are loyal to a home country, whatever the main flag is that's being flown on that cruise ship. There is loyalty. There is leadership. But the mission is completely oriented to the guests. Whatever makes the guests happy, that is what they have to do. Whatever gets guests coming back week after week, that's what they have to do. But largely, you don't stay on a cruise ship for really long. Unless you get that 9 month one that goes around the world, in which case, just get a, I'll buy a suitcase big enough I can fit. Right? But the problem with cruise ships is they are a revolving door of guests. People don't stay really long on a cruise ship. You go, you travel to whatever the ports are that you are supposed to go to, then they turn back around and you get off the boat and more people come on. I don't want our church to be a revolving door. So we can't be a cruise ship. You know what we can be? We can be a battleship. You know the key difference between a battleship and a pirate ship? A battleship is loyal to the authority that started it. The battleship is loyal to the king or to the president or to the admiral. There is leadership. There is structure. So they have the loyalty like a pirate, or they have the loyalty that a pirate ship doesn't have. And the difference between a battleship and a cruise ship is focus. See, on a cruise ship, everyone on the boat is concerned with the happiness of the guests. On a battleship, the captain does not concern himself with the happiness of his crew. He concerns himself with the readiness of his crew. Because a battleship has a mission. And that mission is priority number one. The cook in the galley doesn't get a vote on what the mission is. Why? Because the king has given the mission. The admiral has passed down the mission. The captain's job is to communicate that mission. The captain doesn't even really come up with the mission. It's given to the battleship. The other thing that's unique about a battleship is where the people on the boat spend their time and focus. It's not with their crew members, even though there's great relationship. There's great leadership. A battleship is focused on everything outside of the ship. Because there's two things that happen outside of a battleship. There's enemies and there's allies. And if you're sitting at the radar, you better darn well know the difference between an enemy and an ally. As a church, in case you didn't know this, and for those of you who are new, whether you're joining us online for the first time, thank you, good morning. Or you're here in this room, let me tell you really quick. I am not a cruise ship pastor. We are a battleship. My primary function for the kingdom of God is to break my foot off in your rear end. Put you in gear, get us together, and go serve the mission. Why? Because I didn't make the mission. The king did. I am not asking you to serve me. I am asking you to follow me while we serve him. Because that's his mission. So we are not going to be a cruise ship. My job is not to fluff your pillow, change out your umbrella drink, and make sure you're happy with the color on the paint on the wall. My job is to welcome you aboard and put you to work. See, the difference on a battleship is everybody gets on the boat knowing I'm part of this. They get on the boat knowing I'm part of the crew. I am not part of the focus. You know, there's other things that are great about a cruise ship. You ever thought about the amount of floatation devices that are on a cruise ship? There's at least one for every single human being on board a cruise ship. Do you know how many drowning people a cruise ship could save? But you know why they don't? Because the life preservers that are on board a cruise ship, they're not designed to be used to save the drowning. They're designed to be used to save those who are already on board. Our life preservers, every one of you has a life preserver. It's called the gospel. And there's an entire world of people out there who are drowning and need our rescue. If you're already on board this boat, if you already know Jesus and you're already committed to catalyst, congratulations. You're the captain of the crew. They're the mission. They are the focus. So all of the theatrics of being Captain Bill in this super amazing wheel, by the way, Mr. Phil, is to help you understand that from this moment forward, there is no secrecy and there is no confusion. We are a battleship. And we are a battleship in service of a much greater authority than Pastor Bill. And that's why that is. But my job is not to make you comfortable. My job is to make you mission ready. And then as a team, we gather together and we jointly take this ship out into the middle of the open water and we follow our orders and we go get our job done. That's why this is here. And that's why whatever Pastor Bill says or whatever Captain Bill says, Pastor Bill has to answer for. So as a ship, our church has been sitting in the dry dock for just about eight years. My predecessor's name was Pastor Jack. When Pastor Jack arrived at Was Bethany, he led Bethany through the process of rebranding and rebuilding to become Catalyst Community Church. The sanctuary that you are sitting in today is a product of his shipbuilding that was done here. When Pastor Jack left, the church went about finding its new pastor. You guys rolled the dice on me. Sorry, you're stuck with me now. So I am now finishing the work that the king sent to be done. Captain Jack did some of it. Half of you are thinking Pirates of the Caribbean right now. I know it because I am. And now Captain Bill is here. Captain Jack built the outside. He changed out the pews for the chairs. He put in the really cool stage and the camera and the sound. He did the structural outside of our ship. Then the Lord called me here and he said, okay, Bill, now you get to work. And myself, Miss Donna, the elders and our ministry team leaders, we've rebuilt the inside of the ship. Our systems, our communication, our database, all of those things are now ready. But we cannot complete the mission if we stay in the dock. Ships were not made to be tied to land. Ships were made to set sail and go get stuff done. So it's not enough just to be a ship floating on the water tied to the dock where it's all safe and we don't have to worry about storms and we don't have to worry about tides. That's not enough. Why? Because the mission requires something greater. So several months ago, I assembled and curated a strategic planning team from the members of Catalyst. I tried to get the best balance I could, male, female, younger chronologically, older chronologically, newer to the church, older in the church, different ages of children. We had a very balanced team. And several months ago, I put in front of this team and I said, here's the work I need you to do. I need us to have a clear, refined mission statement, vision statement, and value statement. Because this is the tool that we will use to maneuver the future. They came through in spades. They did a great job. And today, it's my privilege to share that with you and talk about the future of our church. But before I do, I need to tell you where we are right now. So this is your abridged State of the Church address. Today, you are sitting in a room or you may be watching us online. You're watching a church by the name of Catalyst Community Church. The name was changed during the previous administration. What I want to give you is a snapshot of where we are as a church since I arrived. For those of you who do not know, I arrived here at Catalyst in Delaware January the 2nd, 2022. My first Sunday was January the 9th. But on January the 2nd, actually January the 1st, my wife and children, we drove to our rental home. We set up our air mattresses and our sleeping bags. We slept overnight. And then the elders and deacons came over to my rental house after church was over that day. And we unloaded into the rental. And then my family finally, we bought a house. We moved over. And I've been here since January of 2022. What's great about starting at the very beginning of the year is it makes the data tracking so much easier. There was literally only one day of 2022 when Pastor Bill wasn't here. So what I want to tell you is the high-low average. And what I mean by that is what the highest adult sanctuary attendance was, the lowest adult sanctuary attendance, and the average adult sanctuary attendance for 2022, 2023, and 2024. Think about when you go to the doctor. And you know what? What's the first thing they do? They run your numbers, your height, your weight, your age, your blood pressure. Why? Because the numbers altogether give you a portrait of health. So in 2022, the highest adult attendance was 172 people, Easter Sunday, 2022. The lowest adult attendance of the same year, 61. Yeah. You don't think about it until you think about it when you look at it. The highest was 172. And this is only adults in this room. I did not count children or youth because that flexes depending on the demographic of the church. So 172 over 61 with an average attendance of 101 persons in this room every Sunday, 2022. Then 2023, the new puppy syndrome wears off and people realize they got to deal with Pastor Bill longer term. And so there's some changeover that happens. 2023, the high attendance drops from 172 to 117. And the low attendance drops from 61 to 56. Do you see the big difference? 172 down to 117, but then the low only went from 61 to 56. Our average attendance in 2023 was 85.1. Then 2024, the highest adult attendance we have had so far this year is 161 people. That was again Easter Sunday morning. So 161 is not quite 172, but 161 is way closer to that than 117. Here's the best part. The lowest adult attendance of the year, 78. So even though the high number has not exceeded 2022, the low number, the lowest adult attendance service on a Sunday went 61, 56, 78. What does that mean? That means the people who attend this church attend more frequently. That's why the low number is important. You could just like you could do any one crazy thing on Easter Sunday and make people show up. But what's the consistency look like? Our average attendance so far for this year is 100.3. Seven tenths of a point away from the average attendance from 2022. Those of you who like business and money numbers, here you go. In 2022, catalyst brought into the general fund a total of $285,303. That was my first year. Second year again, we see a crash. It drops down to $272,420. Now, you remember we went from 172 to 117, but the general fund only went from 185 to 272. So what does that tell you? The majority of people who left did not impact the giving. That doesn't mean that they weren't givers. It meant that the people who came and replaced them replaced the giving. So in 2023, we had a minor dip. We dove down to 272,420. So far for cumulative 2024, which is January through July, 180,270. Now, that sounds like a really big difference. But remember, that's only January to July of this year because we manage in quarters. So how about I give you January to July of last year versus January to July of this year? We are 19.9% ahead of where we were at this time last year. Right? And this time last year, there were 88 giving units in the church. At this time from January to July of this year, there is 118 giving units in the church. The average giving per unit of January to July of last year was $2,042. Giving per unit this year, $1,743. What does all of that mean? What all of that means is those of us who are here, we attend more frequently. We have more people giving. But the individuals who are giving give less per capita than those we lost. Why is that? Well, largely, there's also been a demographic change. We have more younger families coming, right? We have more younger families who still have children at home who have school-aged children. That's why the youth group is bounced back. That's why children's church downstairs, that attendance number is going up. So all of this to say this, I believe the time for rebuilding is over. And that's why we're doing all of this today. And the time to launch out from this dock and get out into our community and start accomplishing our mission is here. But that mission does not come from me. I am, like, if you hear me say this, I'm middle management at best. Like, he's the boss. He put me in charge of this location and said, Bill, get the ship ready to roll. Yes, sir. I'll let you know when I'm ready. So where does the actual mission of the church come from? If you have your Bibles, turn with me to the final chapter of the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew chapter 28. I'm only going to read 16 to 20. It's a very common passage. If you've been in church at all, you've probably heard it. This is Jesus speaking to his disciples after the resurrection. This is after the resurrection. Matthew chapter 18, excuse me, 28, starting in verse 16. Matthew 28, starting in 16. I'm going to read 16 to 20. Then we're going to go through it. And then we're going to unveil where we're going. So here you go. Matthew chapter 28, starting in verse 16. Then the 11 disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go. When they saw him, they worshiped him. But some doubted. I love that line. But some doubted. Then Jesus came to them and said, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore, go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you, I am surely with you always to the very end of the age. Anybody who's grown up in church, we recognize that as the great... I think that's wrong. I know I led you into it because that's what I wanted you to say. I don't think it's the great commission. I think it's the great co-mission. That is the mission statement of the church that we complete while working together. We are not just commissioned into his service. We are co-laborers on a mission for his service. Let's go back to verse 16. Then the 11 disciples went to Galilee. Stop. Why did they go to Galilee? Because Jesus told them to. Jesus told them, go meet me up there. Remember, because he resurrected Jerusalem, Jerusalem South, Galilee's North, up there. So then the 11 disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go. 17. When they saw him, they worshiped him. Why? Because this is post-resurrection. Jesus has now given definitive proof of his deity. He is God. And they worshiped him as God. I love though, but some doubted. Those are my people, right? Those people are like, I got a question. Weren't you like dead two and a half days ago? Like what were we supposed to do now? Like I get that. What I love is, they worshiped him, is all of them. Some of them still had questions. That means it's okay to have questions while you worship Jesus. I think that's fantastic. Then we get to verse, excuse me, verse 18. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. This is the most important line in the Great Commission. Because this establishes why we do what we do is not because I think I'm important or because catalyst needs to become sort of major media influencer in the Greater Wilmington area. No, the reason we obey the mission is the authority of the one who gave it. Jesus gives us our orders. And we have the choice to say, yes, sir, and get it done or no, sir, and do what we want. But everything that follows, look at the beginning of verse 19. Therefore, verse 19's go and make disciples, baptize and teach. All of that is predicated on the instructions and the authority from which the instructions come. Jesus said, all authority on heaven and on earth. There is no middle ground. Ertang, there's that big theological term for you. Ertang, all authority has been given to me. Verse 19, therefore, go and make disciples of all nations. Stop. Do not separate the go from the make. The go and the make go together. It's not go and if you happen to be able to make disciples, then go. No, go and make disciples goes together. We're not just supposed to go, preach a sermon on a street corner. Oh, well, Jesus, nobody accepted you, so I did my job. No, it's go and make disciples, meaning go and continue going and continue making until disciples thou shall make. Right? Go and make disciples where? Of all nations. The word nations there is ethnos. What English word sounds like ethnos? Ethnicity. Ethnic, ethnicity. Right, what does that mean? There are no people groups outside of our target range. We are to make disciples from any and all people groups that we can come in contact with. And then how do we do this? We make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, and teach them to obey. This is the other thing that the American church doesn't do well. We love to preach the gospel. We love to celebrate baptisms and then sit people in their seats and make them give money. We don't finish the command. The command is not done until you take this brand new baby believer and train them into obedience, which is why we have to get back to obedience to who? It shouldn't be obedience to the pastor. As much as I believe eldership is the biblical model, it shouldn't be obedience to the elders. That should come after obedience to Christ. Why? Because it's his authority. He is the king. He is the mission giver. We are the mission accomplishers. And they are the target audience. They are the mission to be made. And then guess what? Once we make them a disciple and they get baptized, the work is not over. You now have to teach that person to obey all the teachings of Jesus. And what does that mean? Congratulations, you just joined the crew. It's cycle. And then you train up that disciple. And now we have someone else on the crew. And when they are ready, not just immediately, but when they are ready and they are trained, they are sent back out. And verse 20 ends with a promise. He said this. And then he says, I will be with you to the very end of the age. Somebody in their head is saying, don't call me Shirley. What I want you to see is our mission begins and ends with Jesus. It begins with his authority and his directives and his words. And it ends with his presence and his promise. If we stay on mission, we will always be where Christ wants us to be. And he says that he will be in his authority and on his mission. His mission comes with his presence because he said so. Now, you know what's not in the great commission passage? The individual steps for how to accomplish the mission. Jesus was very wise. Our king is very wise. He knew and he realized and he understood that as time changes and empires rise and empires fall and languages are developed and culture changes, the mission may require different means. It may require different modes. It may require different methods. But it will never change its stated purpose. And for 1997 years since the resurrection, we have been readdressing in every age and with every culture. How do we accomplish the mission with the people and the culture in which we are placed? And I have, coming home from Africa, this was like, I mean, obviously God has a plan, right? I don't know why I'm surprised when God knows stuff and he just lets me know about it later. Because it's not like he didn't know it. But coming home and getting to see what American culture looks like having stepped out of it for two weeks and being in a different country where I can't speak the language and I don't understand the food and I don't understand the customs and then coming home to what should have been my native culture and realizing all the things I didn't see. Because it's like tying to tell a fish. It's trying to get a fish to understand water. If it's the water that you've lived in your whole life, you don't even know it's there. It's just part of life. You can't separate your experience from your culture. Our job, and I will tell you very plainly, if you're a Christian, your job is to follow these steps. Obey, get baptized, learn all that Jesus taught, obey it, go out, teach somebody else to do the same thing. Pastor Rick, my oldest mentor and dearest friend, he always used to say, and he's still alive, so I'm not talking about him posthumously, I talked to him last week, but I don't talk to him as frequently anymore. So what he used to say is, Christianity exists on a razor's edge. The moment one generation of the church no longer considers it probative or necessary to train the next generation, the Christian faith will die. And for 2,000 years we've been handing down the mission. For 2,000 years we have been training up young people to take our place. So when my time behind this wheel is done, the next one comes behind me and takes over, and then the next one comes behind them and takes over, and we have been handing it down for 2,000 years. This mission isn't new. That's the other thing I need you to understand before we read through this mission, vision, and value statement. We are not creating something new for the church to do. If anything, we're bringing clarity to that which is original. Right? I love the fact that this ship's wheel is legitimately an original wheel off a ship. It's not a replica. It's not a remake. Now, the church building that you are sitting in, those of you who are joining us online, the stage that I am standing on right now inside this brick structure, it's been here for 73 and a half years. Catalyst celebrates its 75th birthday in a year and a half. You don't think in 75 years the way we do ministry has changed? In 75 years, culture has shifted at least once or twice, you know? Praise God, not all cultural shifts stay, you know what I'm saying? Like the side ponytails in the Aquanet from the 80s, it can stay back there. The guitars, they can come forward. They're good to go. What I want to share with you this morning is not something new. It's something very old. It is the original mission of Christ and the original DNA of Bethany Baptist Church planted February 11, 1951. That's the building that we are sitting in, those of you joining us online. That's the building this church is in. February 11, 1951, Bethany Baptist Church began its maiden voyage with 40 people. Many of you know Buzzy Cook. He is the fourth member of our elder team. Buzzy, good morning. I know you're watching on Facebook because I saw your name at the bottom of the video. Buzzy is one of the original families still left from when this church started. He started serving in Children's Church at the age of 15. And last year at our Servant Leaders Banquet, he received his 65-year service medal. I can't tell you how awesome it is to be allowed to stand up here and lead a church with as deep of a legacy as we have. So I don't want you to misinterpret what I am sharing today. This is not Pastor Bill coming in here with his master's degree and almost doctorate and coming up with anything new for this church to do. No. This is the strategic planning team's work to re-outfit and reorient and refine the original mission of Bethany Baptist Church for 2025 and beyond. And the original mission of Bethany Baptist Church was planted on the original mission that Jesus left in the Gospel of Matthew. So we are not creating something new. What I asked the team to develop was a clearly refined statement that reflects not only the purpose of the global church, which comes from the king, but the DNA of this exact church that was planted 73 and a half years ago. So that's your frame of reference. Everybody with me? So here is the new vision statement of Catalyst Community Church, effective today. Our vision is to represent Jesus as a loving community that meets needs, builds relationships, and matures Christians. That's who we are, and that is why we do what we do. So as we go through this, I want to try to explain to you, those of you who have never had to do corporate organization before, what is the vision statement? The vision statement is the long term. It's looking out over the horizon. Why am I sailing east? Because where I need to go is that way. Why do I turn and sail southwest? Because where I'm trying to go is that way. That is what a vision statement is. Dino, can you throw that back up for me again? I want to point out several key pieces. First, the vision is to represent Jesus. It is not to represent Pastor Bill. It is not to represent the elder team. It is not even to represent Wilmington or Delaware or the northeastern United States. Our ship is flagged for one kingdom, and in that kingdom there is one king, and he rules, and nobody else gets in his way. So the vision is to represent Jesus. Represent Jesus through what? Being a loving community. One thing I can tell you about Catalyst, if you don't know us well enough yet, we love folk. And I didn't do that. I didn't create that. This church has been loving this community for 73 and a half years. And it was one of the key things that the strategic planning team said we have to include. This church loves people. And if you've been around this church long enough, you probably felt it. And if not, I promise you it's there. Just stay for another couple of weeks. It will hit you. You'll get a bug, and you'll just start loving the people in Newport. This church loves. But we are a loving community that strives to do three things. And this is the only three things we will strive for. We will strive to meet needs. We will strive to build relationships. And we will strive to mature Christians. There's a lot of things a church can do, right? There's a lot of wonderful things that a church can be. I think our worship team is amazing, right? That's not just because my amazingly hot wife is the worship leader, right? That is also a true statement, okay? Tell the truth and shame the devil. But our church is probably not going to be the church that drops the brand new Chris Tomlin inspired worship album next year. Let's give Melanie and the team at least two years, right? Does that mean that writing worship music isn't a good thing? No, it's a great thing. But we cannot do everything. We must realize we are made, we are built, we are fashioned for a specific thing. And dropping the next worship album is not what this church is outfitted for. That's not what we do. You know what we do? We love people. Even before I got here, Catalyst and Bethany before that has a long history of meeting needs in this community. Why? Because Jesus met needs before he preached his kingdom. Go back and read the Gospels. What did he do? He fed them and then he taught. He healed them and then he taught. He met their needs where they were at. No questions asked. Like you don't clean the fish before you catch it. No questions asked. We're going to meet needs. And through those meeting of needs, we are going to draw them to Christ. And after we meet needs, we're going to build relationships. This is 100% a community church. People genuinely love people here. Maybe not Jim, but everyone else is lovable. Sorry, he's just sitting there with such a great smile. That George Clooney-esque beard. I got to pick on him a little bit. Our job as a community is to build relationships. If you are on our Newport campus, please don't come here and then rush out as soon as church is over. Make a new friend. Meet somebody. Because I guarantee you, the people who are in this room care about the people who are in this room. If you're watching this online, you are a part of this family. All you have to do is fill out that connect card and you would find out how quickly I get back to you. That's one of our biggest questions. How do I build community through that incredibly intimidating cyclops-y eye that Cola keeps pointing at me all church long? That's a question we have to answer. And then finally, we are a ship that helps people mature. I'm a teacher. I'm not a preacher. For years, I struggled with that identity. For years, I felt like I wasn't good enough because I don't sound like the other people who are super famous and have the really big book deals. No, I don't. I sound like ADHD Bill and that's all I got for you. But one thing I have come to realize is I love teaching. I love theology. I love apologetics. I love the big story of the Bible. And I'm not going to back down from believing that an entire church can learn all of those things and share them with a community. So we are going to be a place that helps you to mature. I want you to know Jesus, but that's not enough. I want you to grow in that knowledge and then learn to obey and have your character transform. So one more time, Dino, here is the vision. This is the why we do what we do. Our vision is to represent Jesus as a loving community that meets needs, builds relationships, and matures Christians. Now that's the why. Now let's talk about the what. The mission of Catalyst Community Church from this moment forward is to impact the greater Wilmington area and beyond for Jesus. Notice the center. He is the center, not us. To impact the greater Wilmington area and beyond for Jesus through, and there's four key elements here, engaging services, relational groups, educational classes, and community support. These are the four things that Catalyst already does well, and we're going to take them to a whole new level. You see why it's important to have these. It doesn't mean the worship team can't start writing its own music, but that's not what this ship is outfitted to be great at. What we are outfitted to be great at are these four things. Number one, to have engaging worship services, where it's not just listen to a CD track and then fall asleep to a, you know, a somewhat sleepy, put you to sleep Bible teacher. Like trust me, I'm going to do my best to keep you awake. If I see you falling asleep, I will call out your name. Now everybody wonders why I called Jim's name out five minutes ago. I want church to be vibrant. I want church to be exciting. You know why? Because I am totally ADHD, and if I would fall asleep, I can't come to church. I also want church to be engaging for the family members who connect with us electronically. In a minute, I'm going to prove my point, but the engagement we have as a congregation must transcend beyond the brick and mortar building and into that digital, you know, funky space. And we need young people who can think like that and help come up with those ideas, because I'm old. We also need to have relational groups. For those of you who are on the Newport campus, did you know there are small groups that meet before church at 9 o'clock? Did you know we had one of the highest attended small group, C group attendances this morning? There was almost 50 of you upstairs in C groups. The brand new Men's C group just started. Yeah, give the C group leaders a hand. I didn't do that. I mean, dag gum, Jim teaches the C group and people still show up. Right? And you know why, I guess, because Lisa's right there to hold his hand. I get it. The Men's small group just started. Jen's running the young adult small group downstairs. If you attend Catalyst here at the Newport campus, there are groups that you can attend where you can make friends. Why? Because we can't be a community that represents Jesus if we're not a community, if we don't have relationship with each other. Educational classes, that's the third one. This is where, this is my big heart, right? I want a church that learns and thinks. I want a church that can be taught. I want a church that can then go teach others. Well, I've got to develop the groundwork. I've got to give you the playbook so that you can go do that. And I'm uniquely suited. I will be good at that part. Those of you who've done, we did the how to share the gospel without preaching class, right? How to study your Bible class. We're going to do those, but we're going to do them better. We're going to do those, we're going to make them available to our online audience. We're going to do those and find out how can I disseminate them differently so that more people can learn and more people can grow. And then finally, one of the things that Bethany before catalysts and catalysts is great at is community support. We will care for our people who live near us that love your neighbor mentality. We will absolutely love our neighbors in as many tangible ways as we can. In fact, Ms. Donna and I were just texting this week with the administration of Richardson Park. They asked Ms. Donna and I to come up during the day, during the week, because they found a collection of coats that apparently have been donated over the years for the students that got shoved in a closet somewhere. And so I get a phone call from a member of their administrative staff. They're like, Pastor Bill, did you guys buy us coats last winter? I said, no, ma'am. She goes, I got a bunch of coats. I need somebody who can help me go through them and get them ready to give out to the kids. I said, oh, we're down. I said, Donna, find a day, clear the time. Let's go. Let's be real life people, flesh and blood, Jesus, walking and talking and helping in our community. And that relationship's just getting better. So, Dino, one more time. Here's the mission, the mission statement of Catalyst Community Church, to impact the greater Wilmington area and beyond for Jesus through engaging services, relational groups, educational classes, and community support. Now, here's what's really cool about having those two statements. The vision statement gave me three whys. The whys, why do we do it? To meet needs, build relationships, and mature Christians. The mission statement gave me four whats. What are they? Engaging services, relational groups, educational classes, and community support. Those of you who like your spreadsheets, I want you to picture this in your mind. You take the three whys and you cross them with the four whats. And now I have 12 hows. I have 12 questions to ask as a church. How do we meet needs through our engaging services? How do we mature Christians through our relational groups? How do we, see what I'm saying? That fast. Those two things, those two statements when you cross them, give us 12 big questions to ask. And now we can really dial in. What are we doing as a church? Number one, here's a big question. Are we doing the things we should be doing to actually get where we want to go? That's like taking the ship out of open water with no map and no compass. And just go, oh, well I think that's north. Let's go that way and we'll call it north. No. If you don't have a map and a compass, how are you going to navigate? How are you going to know what the right things are to do? How are we going to know the right things to invest our finances in? How are we going to know the right things to put our leadership in? How are we going to know the right things to get the crew behind and the jobs to do? Because now I have a map. And I can take the three pizzo division statement and the four pizzo division statement. And I can ask some very clear questions. How are we doing X through Y? How are we doing Y through Y? How are we doing Z through Y? It's going to make us very effective next year. So there's your Y. There's your what. Together they give the how. Now let's talk about the who. Who are we as a church? Here are the core values that we will have as a community. And again, I have to state, these are not being invented and installed on you as a church. The strategic planning team was very clear. This is who we already are. We're just giving it some clarity and some definition. So here's the first thing. We value insightful, Bible-focused teaching. Right? As a church, we value ADHD, Bible-focused teaching. Right? Trust me, that was in the Generation 1 of this statement and it got edited out. Why? Because the Bible is the Word of God. I shouldn't be standing up here giving you the Word of Man. I should be standing up here giving you the Word of God. Why? Because the Word of God changes lives, not the Word of Bill. The Word of Bill just irritates people. Trust me, ask my wife. So as a community, we value insightful, Bible-focused teaching. The second one. We value humble, Jesus-focused authenticity. Please don't come to Catalyst and be fake. Everybody can smell it a mile away. Right? Right? Everybody knows when you go into that like church lady place and everybody got that church lady face on. And all you're doing is having, you know, just very, very surface level conversations. And no one's real and no one's telling what's really going on in their life. Like, I'm sorry, we're just not going to be those people. If you're looking for the church where you can hide behind the mask, there's another one down the street. That's not us. We're real people who have real struggles and real difficulties and real hurts. And it's okay to have that authenticity that doesn't make us hypocrites, that makes us humans. The third one. We value friendly, unity-focused community. Unity-focused community. I want you to hear those words. Catalyst is not a church that really is built around cliques or smaller subgroups. Everybody's everybody. I know when I get to attend the men's fraternity group with Jerry, it doesn't really matter what age the guys are at the table. Like this past Wednesday, Jen made enchiladas. Who doesn't want to eat enchilada? Like, I don't know, but we sat there, we ate, we talked about scripture. Different men at different stages of life, different ethnicities, different backgrounds, different stories. But we're all men in this church. And we're all able to be that unity-focused community. I don't want you to be so good friends with one person in the church that it forces you to not be friends with the next person. That's not the way churches work. We're a unity-focused community. The next one. We value healing, support-focused growth. I know you've heard me say this, but over the last six to 12 months, the majority of the families who have been drawn to catalyst are hurting. They've been hurt by other churches. They've been hurt by family members. We have become a hospital for wounded sheep. And I feel great about that. The honor that I feel knowing that God trusts the elders of this church to care for wounded sheep and to bring them back to health so I can kick them out on deck and make them work. Right? That feels great. And a ministry like Celebrate Recovery, which we're going to celebrate next Sunday. Next Sunday is CR Sunday. We're going to hear about the amazing things that happen in a ministry like that. That is, in my opinion, another one of those support-focused growths. Growth. Not gross. Growth. Everybody's on a journey. And if you don't know what chapter they're on, you might misjudge their actions. So let's just be fair and let's understand where everybody's at, what chapter they're at in their story. And that means that you've got to kind of get to meet them there. And that's what support. And it's not just support for support's sake. I want you to see that it's support-focused growth. I don't want you to remain the same. I want you to change. And then the last one. We value resilient, legacy-focused ministry. Resilient, legacy-focused ministry. And that's why I started by talking about the 73 and a half years that this church has been in this community. We, you and I, the contemporary people who attend and are our partners here at Catalyst Community Church, we inherited a really big legacy. We inherited a legacy of love. We inherited a legacy of growth. We inherited a legacy of community, of care, of action. And we've got to own that. You've got to know that you and I are standing in a trail that's been blazed by people like Buzzy, who's still watching online and he's still a part of this church, 65 years later. That's how long it takes to graduate out of children's ministry, just in case anybody missed it. Why is this important? Let me give you an example. So, does anybody know the year the printing press was invented? The actual original Gutenberg printing press? No. The printing press was invented in 1440. 1440. Gutenberg invents the very first printing press. Now, it took a while for that specific kind of technology to catch on, right? So, the printing press is invented in the year 1440, and it took a little over 400 years before reading and literacy became normative in Western Europe. Just think about that. The printing press was invented in 1440, and it took 400 years for culture to fully adapt and accept that books and the written word in reading and writing would be the normative way that information would be exchanged and that culture would happen. It took 400-something years for that technology to fully adapt to culture, right? Anybody want to take a guess at when the first smartphone was invented? The very original iPhone was introduced and invented in 2007. You're close, right? 2007, the very first iPhone is invented. Thank you, Mr. Jobs. Do you know the percentage of U.S. Americans who now use a smartphone every day is over 85%? Well, it depends on, number one, what you define as an adult, and number two, what you define as a smartphone. So I'm saying a phone that has a touch screen that's capable of making phone calls. That's why it's the iPhone. The Blackberry obviously predated that, but that was the roller ball. It wasn't really touch screen, right? Anybody who's nodding right now, you're old. Because you had a Blackberry. So I just want you to see that. 400 years for culture to adopt the printing press and 17 years for us to adopt the smartphone. If we do not understand that we are living through probably the largest shift in informational culture that has taken place in five centuries, and it's happening behind our eyes. It's happening in our pockets, in our purses, and we don't even see it. So let me try to bring it forward for you and show you something. For all of you who are joining us online, good morning. If you are watching this broadcast right now in real time, and you have my personal cell phone number, send me a text message and tell me where you are and how many people are watching. Okay? So all of you online, text me right now. There you go. Doug Taylor is watching from Knoxville, Tennessee. Terry Eaton, family of 15, watching from North Fort Myers, Florida. Doug's got three watching in Tennessee. I know there are people in Central Florida, South Florida, New Jersey, who watch us every single week. We are their church. There's another one. Alex, what's up, dude? He's watching from home in Newark, Delaware, and his mom is watching with him. This is like the printing press. It has changed our life and our culture in a way that I don't...there's another one. Who's that? Oh, that's my mom. Hi, mom. She's watching. My mom and three other people are watching in West Palm Beach, Florida right now. There's another one. Jesse and Megan Franco. They're watching from Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. Fred Palmer is watching from the back of the room. Of course you are, Fred. And that's why we have an ADHD pastor right there. Melanie Williams is a partner here. She normally attends in person. She had to work today, so she's watching from Wilmington. If we don't get the fact that this is the future, like this is the printing press. This has changed our lives in ways that we never could have expected. And if we don't figure out how to go through this... Oh, there's another one. Who's that? Oh, Megan, they're watching from a lake in South Carolina. So here's what I want to tell you. We have between now and January to load the ship and get it ready to set sail. Because on January 1st, we're going to leave the dock, and we are going to venture out into the big wide world where the mission happens and where you can get to work. One of the things that must change is what I call digital literacy. I'm studying it from my schoolwork. I've read like five, six books on the topic already. Digital literacy, Cola, where are you? You're here, right? So Cola, he's behind the camera this morning. That's why, because he's a young person. So he and I had a conversation last week, and I asked him, does he ever remember a day of his life without the Internet? He said no. He was born after the Internet was invented, right? So Cola is what we call a digital native. This technology he grew up with, and it's the way he understands the world. Those of us who are old enough to remember life before the Internet, right? You don't have to raise your hand. I'm not asking anybody to call yourselves out. You're elbowing each other anyway. Those of us who were born before the invention of the Internet, or those of you who like watch Stranger Things and realize there was a thing called the 80s, it was awesome. We have to realize that this is the future, and we need to figure out how to do everything we do here, also do it here. Because look at the number of places. Oh, look, Rachel Iori, she's got two people watching from Helmetta, New Jersey. That's in northern Jersey, for those of you who don't know where that is. So just real quick, I wasn't counting all of that, but that has to be at least 25 people who are watching right now, some of whom attend the Newport campus and some of whom don't. That window right there that Cole is on, that is the next window to our church. And we've got to figure out how to be the best community of faith to drive people to building relationships, to meeting needs, to maturing as a Christian, and we've got to do it here and we've got to do it there. Why? Because that's the future. That's what lies just beyond the dock. That's what lies just beyond the horizon, is figuring out how do we accomplish the entire mission when our entire culture has shifted in 17 years. And I know nobody likes the C word, right? Nobody likes the word COVID. But let me just tell you, of all of the doctoral research that I have done, we still do not fully understand the lasting impact that COVID pandemic had on culture worldwide. The same like it took us years and years and years to figure out what Ebola and the Spanish flu really did to the world. But here's what I can tell you. Does anybody remember going to church before COVID? Does anybody remember that there was no such thing as a live stream? Right? Overnight, I mean instantly overnight, churches had to evolve in order to survive. And we adopted strategies and we only asked, can we do it? We didn't ask, how should we do it? And so now we have things like a live stream. We have as many technicians in the back of the sanctuary as we have singers in the front of the sanctuary. That wasn't a thing! Right? That wasn't even a thing when I first started in ministry. You didn't have to be a pastor and also understand the internet and cameras and sound and all of these things. But COVID summarily changed our culture in a way we could have never predicted. And now we have just as many relationships in these funky little glass boxes as we do inside brick buildings. This is where we need to think of the fact that this structure is a church. And the reach that we can do through this is the church. Why? Because you're the church. The church isn't the building, it's the people, right? I mean think about like when you were a little kid, and everybody was like, eee, right? Right? Right? And all of you who are old know exactly what I just said. And what's funny is half of you just went, eee. I am excited. That's why my ADHD is a little off the rails today. I'm sorry. This is your first Sunday with us, whether you're online or here, bro. It's not always this funny. Sorry. So this is what I want to do. This is what I want to do. I ran a little long, so I'm going to, the worship team is not going to close in a song. But I need somebody to go downstairs and tell Miss Lucy she can come up. Usher's, if you guys would go ahead and take your places. Every week we fill out a connect card. So if you're new to Catalyst, whether you're online or you're here on the Newport campus, every week I ask everyone to fill out a connect card. This does two things for us. Number one, it's how we take attendance. It's how I'm able to give you all of those great numbers. And number two, it's how you're able to talk with me. It's how you're able to respond. So here's what, this is what I want to say. And I took a little bit of a break from being Captain Bill, so here's the Captain Bill speech. If you are a Christian, if you have already placed your faith in Jesus, and you are on this ship, then you are part of the crew. If you do not attend faithfully, you should. If you do not serve, you should. If you do not financially support the church, you should. That's your job as a crew member. Now, I didn't put numbers behind any of those things. We share the load together. But every single person who is on this crew, no matter what church you go to, biblically I argue you should attend faithfully, serve joyfully, and give consistently. It's the connect cards that help me understand the attendance part. It's the connect cards that help me with the pastor part. So if you are a partner here at Catalyst, and you are not serving somewhere on your connect card, I want you to tell me what part of the church you are interested in being involved in. Because between now and December 31st, we are recruiting. And on January 1st, we set sail. And it's going to be fun and exciting. Once the elders are done building the one, three, and five-year goals that the strategic planning team built, all of that, now we just got to parse through it, stretch it out, figure what are the goals for next year, so Captain Bill can come back January of next year and say, okay, crew, this is our destination, this is our timeline, let's get it. And let's start being the church of Jesus Christ. So if you are not plugged in and serving somewhere, I need you to tell me where. If you're joining us online and you're wondering how is that going to work, let me tell you two things. Number one, you are just as much of a part of our church as every single person in this room is. But we have to figure out how we get you to build relationships, to grow. If you have thoughts and ideas, all of you who are watching right now on a phone, use the digital connect card and give them to me. Because over the next several months, I've got to go to the elders and we've got to build a plan for what will we accomplish next year. I've got some really good ideas. The ministry team is going to have their input. Ultimately, the elders will decide. But I'm down for an idea. Listen, I'm not the captain because I have the best ideas. I'm the captain because the Lord put me in charge of trying to figure out how do we get the best ideas. And if you've ever been in my ministry team leaders meeting, you'll know. Right to my right sits my wife, and to my left is Ms. Donna and Ms. Tara. And if the three of them don't agree that one of my ideas is good, it generally gets shot down out of the sky and we keep coming up with new ideas. So if you're a part of our online family and you have an idea for what we could do differently to help you build relationships, help you grow, help you mature, put that on your digital connect card and let me know.