Alright, thank you for being a part of our service. Whether you are joining us online or you are physically here in the room with us, thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family. Now here at Catalyst we're about one thing, and that is loving people to... Life change in Christ. Life change in Christ. So if you're here this morning, we love you. But I love you enough to tell you the truth, which is I do not want you to remain the same. Being a part of a Christian church and being a Christian is kind of like being a member at the gym. If you went to the gym every single day for an entire year and nothing changed, people would ask you, are you doing the gym wrong? If we go to church and we study God's word and we pray, and we have a relationship with Jesus and our life doesn't change, then I have to ask, are we doing the Jesus wrong? So that is one of the reasons why we want to study God's word together, is it helps us to become more like Him. Now I'm going to be doing today and next week sort of like two parts of the same sermon. I just didn't want to keep you here all the way to the mid-afternoon to try to do it all in one week. Yeah, you're welcome. See, somebody's got to amen that one. So this week and next week are kind of two parts of the same thing. I titled it The Big Question because I wanted to address what I think is a super important question. So for those of you who like following along in your Bibles, I'm going to tell you where we're going, but it's going to take us a little bit to get there. Turn with me to Romans chapter 3, and just put your finger, turn or tap to Romans 3, and just hold it there because I got a little bit of intro before I want to get there. So today's big question, the big question that I want to try to answer for you is, what does it mean when we say that we are saved by faith? What does that really mean? I don't know about you, but I've grown up in church, and in church we have what we call Christianese, which is terms or phrases that we say a lot in church, but we don't really examine, right? Like, oh, thank goodness I'm washed in the blood. Do you know how weird that sounds to somebody who does not a Christian? They're like, you wash, you bathe people in blood? This is the wrong church for me, right? And I think the term saved by faith, or those of you who like your history, sola fide, the solas of the Reformation, saved by faith alone, I think it's a concept that we say a lot, but we don't necessarily discuss a lot. So this morning's question that I would like to attempt to give you an answer to is what does it mean to be saved by faith, or if you want me to rephrase it to the ADHD Bill version, how does salvation work? And that sounds like a major big question, but how does salvation work? And here's why this is important. Christianity hinges on the singular claim that salvation is found in Christ alone. That's what our entire faith is built on. If salvation could be found in any other thing other than Jesus, then we would be wrong. Just, I mean, there's no way around that. I'm not trying to be offensive, but I just want to set the stage here that we claim as Christians that salvation can only be found by faith in Christ. Can't find salvation by faith in, fill in the blank, with any other historical character. So first let me give you the history of where this idea of salvation by faith alone comes from. Back in the ye olden days in Europe, there was a thing called the Protestant Reformation. The Protestant Reformation started when a guy named Martin Luther nailed his theses to the church door at, does anybody know where the church was? It was in Germany, that's right. So bonus points to my wife was in Germany, Wittenberg. He nailed his 95 theses to the church door in Wittenberg, Germany, and that is the event that kicked off the Protestant Reformation. And what Martin Luther was trying to reform was the way the church taught about salvation. Now, we're not going to go through the whole big Bible story all the way to the Reformation. Just understand that from the time of Jesus, through the Black Plague, all the way to the time of the Protestant Reformation, the church had gotten a lot of things right. We had solidified the doctrine of the Trinity, we solidified the hypostatic union that Jesus was fully God, fully man. There's a lot of good theology that happens from the time of the early church all the way to the time of the Reformation. But one thing that had gotten skewed was how salvation worked. And so Martin Luther and several other of the reformers, they came up with what was called the five solas. The sola because it's in Latin. So there were five of them, sola fide, meant by faith alone. Solo gratia was by grace alone. Sola Christus is in Christ alone. Sola Scriptura that were guided by scripture alone. Which one did I miss? By faith alone, by grace alone. Rod, which one did I miss? Now I can't remember what the fifth one is. Anyway, I promised you there's five. That'll be your fun Google moment at lunch. I promised you there was a fifth sola and right now it's ADHD has already moved on. But sola fide literally means that we are saved by faith alone. And that means that there is no point in which our human works can earn salvation. There's nothing we can do. There's no amount of money we can give. There's no, that's what sola fide means. It means that we are saved by faith alone. Where I would like to go one step further than the reformers is we need to discuss what the word salvation means. And what the word faith means if we're going to really understand what salvation through faith means, right? So in a biblical context, the word salvation means rescue from a state of danger. And restoration to wholeness, safety, victory, like, you know, big package. So let's just talk about what salvation means first. There are two aspects to biblical salvation. There is rescue and there is restoration. Let's think about a shepherd when he goes to rescue a sheep that has wandered off. By wandering away from the shepherd, the sheep has unknowingly or knowingly put himself in, him or herself in danger, right? Why is it dangerous for a sheep to be alone? Because wolves got to eat. Because lions got to eat. So there is one aspect of salvation in which the shepherd enters into the dangerous territory. Lion King fans, that's your badlands, right? That's the light, the light, everything the kingdom light touches. What about that area that is beyond our borders, right? Those who grew up with the Lion King, the shepherd has to go all the way over to hyena territory. That's the first part of salvation. The shepherd rescues the sheep while it's in the middle of danger. But then the shepherd doesn't stay there because there's 99 other sheep that stayed safe over there in the field. So the shepherd returns the lost sheep to the flock. That's the second half of salvation. That's why in a biblical context, salvation cannot be a light switch. It's actually two actions that are done by the shepherd simultaneously. The first is the action of rescue. The second is the action of restoration. Are you with me so far? So salvation means two things. It means rescue and restoration. It's not just rescuing the lost. It is restoring to completeness to... Let's not knock that over. That's expensive. It's restoration to wholeness, safety, completeness, victory, all those wonderful things. The second word we have to define is faith. Oh, I have faith in Jesus. I can't tell you the number of times I've heard this word misused because someone is applying either a cultural definition to faith, which is more along the line of I hope. Do we hope in Jesus or do we have faith in Jesus? Those two questions shouldn't be synonymous. And so many times I find that the word faith is akin to hope or wish fulfillment. And that's where the atheist is going to come at you. Your faith is nothing but empty wish fulfillment. I'm like, well, that might be how you define the word faith, but it's not how the word the Bible. The Bible defines faith again as a two part thing. The first is trust and the second is commitment. When we place our faith in Christ, you should be able to swap that word faith and go, do you trust in Christ? Are you committed to Christ? The best example I have ever been given of faith, I'm going to give it to you. I'm going to tell you right now I did not create this, but I'm going to preach it like it's mine anyway. So let's just go with it. All right. So how many people been to Niagara Falls? Anybody? All right. Been to Niagara Falls, right? Beautiful place, waterfall, US, Canada border, lots of water, right? Let's say there is a tightrope stretched across the breadth of Niagara Falls. And you're there and you're visiting and you know, you've got your mocha, chocolate, frapa, half a latte or whatever it is. And you're just watching the tightrope walker cross Niagara Falls on the rope. The first time you see it, maybe it's incredible. Maybe your eyes are glued to it. You can't look away. And then he comes back. So let's say you're on the US side and he started on the US side. He crosses the breadth of the Niagara Falls on the rope and you're like, oh my gosh, is he going to fall? And then he comes back. You're like, oh wow. And then he does it again. And again. And again. And the tightrope walker crosses the tightrope across Niagara Falls so many times that it's no longer amazing to you. It's just, oh yeah, that's what Phil does. That's what he does in his off time. He's a tightrope walker and he comes up with these amazing stunts. But he's so good. He's so good at walking the tightrope that it's not really impressive anymore. That's just Phil. That's who he is. So then Phil comes for his lunch break right around the time that you're getting ready to leave Niagara Falls. And you're like, man, Phil, I know I've seen you do that a million times. It doesn't really look amazing anymore, but I got to tell you, it's still pretty impressive. And Phil goes, OK, do you think I could make it across one more time? Of course, Phil. OK, great. Jump on my back. That's biblical faith. It's not knowing that Phil can cross the tightrope. It's trusting that he can cross the tightrope and carry me where I can't go on my own. That's what biblical faith means. It means to place a trust, not only that I believe Phil can make it on the tightrope, I believe Phil can carry me on the tightrope. And Phil's looking at me like, no, that's not happening. Nope. The 300 pound Hawaiian man is not climbing on top of the five foot nothing Italian guy. That's not happening. But this is what it means to have biblical faith in Christ. Obviously, the tightrope analogy is just illustrative. But do we trust in Christ enough to fully commit ourselves to his back, to have him carry us when we are incapable of carrying ourselves? Faith is not hope. You don't jump on the man's back to walk across the tightrope across Niagara Falls if you hope he can make it. You don't even do it if you think he can make it. If you're married, you don't even do it if your wife thinks he can make it. You do it when you fully trust and know and believe and you volitionally commit. Phil will carry me across this line. That is what biblical faith means. It means to place your trust, holy and completely, in another individual to accomplish that which you are unable to accomplish. And that's why faith has to include trust and commitment. Because if I were to look at Phil and be like, yeah, I totally believe you can go across. Here, take Emily. That's a level of faith. But I didn't trust myself. Right? A lot of people look at Jesus and they're like, yeah, I totally believe Jesus can save. But I'm not ready to jump on his back. I'm not ready to commit and leave behind the nice solid ground that I'm on and place all of my trust and belief in the one man who can carry me across. That's biblical faith. So now, let me put these two definitions together. Remember, salvation is rescue and restoration. Faith is trust and commitment. So if we combine these two ideas, salvation by faith means being rescued and restored by Jesus on the basis of our trust and commitment to him. Right? So I just tied these two definitions together. Salvation by faith for you and I as Christ followers means that we are rescued and restored by Jesus. And that's super important. We are not rescued and restored by virtue of our own faith. I know that's like a super popular thing, but you got to understand if it is my own personal faith that gets me across the tightrope, then why do I need a savior? Why do I need a fill to carry me across? If it's my faith, it does it. No, it's my faith in Christ. He is still the object by which salvation is brought. That's why the solas together are by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Our faith is placing trust and commitment in Christ. If your faith is in yourself, it doesn't save. And that's a distinction that doesn't get made a lot, especially I'll say in the Western American, you know, self. We have a very self-driven theology. Like even when I'm scrolling Instagram, the number of like popular preacher posts that I see that if you just stop and examine their words, their theology is focused on themselves and not on God. Their salvation is focused on their faith and not on Christ. We've got to make sure we understand who the object of salvation is and who the bringer of salvation is. I am the receiver of salvation. Christ is the purchaser, right? My faith applies that purchase. And we're going to get into this whole ordeal in a minute. So is everybody with me so far? Salvation by faith means being rescued and restored by Jesus on the basis of our trust and commitment in him. We're good so far, right? OK, that was the intro. So here we go. First, I want to show you the number of times that faith is used in scripture. So the first and you don't have to turn to all of these. Dino's got it loaded. He's ready for you on the screen. So here you go. Genesis, Chapter 15, Verse 6. Abraham believed the Lord and he credited to him as righteousness. Now, that word believed in the Hebrew is the same as the Greek equivalent to place his faith. He trusted and committed to the Lord and it was credited to him as righteousness. Psalm, Verse 20, excuse me, Chapter 20, Verse 7. Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we trust in the name of the Lord our God. Same Hebrew word as Abraham believed. But here it's here. It's translated as chariot. Why? Because in the context of Psalm 20 here, he's talking about where does victory come from? Some people trust in their military power. We will trust in God. That's not a hope. That's not a wish. That's an active placed trust and commitment. Then we fast forward to Matthew, Chapter 8, Verse 10. When Jesus heard this, he was amazed and said to those following him, truly I tell you, I have not found anyone in Israel with such great faith. Same word, with such great trust and commitment. Now, I don't have time to unpack that entire statement, but he's talking. This is the Roman Centurion moment where he says, listen, my servant is sick and I need him to be healed. But you don't need to come to my house. Like, I'm not worthy enough for you to come to my house, the Centurion says to Christ. He says, listen, I have people in my command structure that I'm in authority over them. And when I tell them to do something, it gets done. So you don't have to come to my home. All you have to do is declare it. And your declaration, I trust that your authority stands. That's what the Roman Centurion was saying there to Christ. And that's analogized as the greatest faith of anyone in Israel. And then finally we get to Acts chapter 3 verse 16. Here, Peter and John are preaching after healing someone at the temple. And it says this, by faith in the name of Jesus, this man you see and know was made strong. It is the name, or it is Jesus' name and the faith that comes through him that has completely healed him as you can all see. So now Peter and John are relating trust and commitment to Christ as the reason for the healing. In all of those instances, you cannot swap hope or wish for faith. That's why you need to see that faith is a trust, an active trust, where I place my trust in something else. Every time you get in your car and you crank the ignition, you are trusting in what? That it'll start. I know that's such a simple analogy, but have you ever realized that the amount of faith it takes, why do you trust that your car is going to start? Because it usually does, right? Every now and again it doesn't, and what happens? But why would our faith in Christ not be that way? When I place my faith in Christ, it almost always starts. In his case, it always starts. It's the perfect reliable. There's a trust in that action. So with that as our understanding that salvation is both rescue and redemption, and faith is both trust and commitment, now let's go to Romans 3 because I want to unpack this. Romans chapter 3, we're only going to look at verses 21 to 25. Okay, 21 to 25. But what Paul has to say here is incredibly important to us understanding what salvation by faith really means. So Romans chapter 3, I'm going to read 21 to 25, then we're going to go back, we're going to unpack it verse by verse, then we'll apply it, and then we'll get lunch. So here we go, 21. But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been made known, to which the law and the prophets testify. This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There is no difference between Jew and Gentile, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and all are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. And then the first part of 25, God presented Christ as a sacrifice of atonement through the shedding of his blood to be received by faith. So let's just stop there and let's rewind back to verse 21. Paul is making a much larger argument leading into this, and I didn't want to try to unpack all of that to get to here. So what I need you to understand is in the previous section, Paul is describing the Old Testament law, and the main point that he is making, although there's some nuance to it, the main point he is making is that the law that was given in the Old Testament doesn't redeem. The law that was given in the Old Testament reveals the depth of human depravity and sin. The law was given to show us we are sinful people, that as humans left to our own devices, we sin. We choose that which is not God's design. We choose our own desires over God's design. So the law reveals human sin. So now apart from the law, meaning apart from all that teaches you about sin, what? The righteousness of God has been made known. So apart from the Old Testament law that defines and teaches God's people what sin is, apart from that, now the righteousness of God has been made known. And not just any righteousness of God, the end of 21, to which the law and the prophets testify. Why does the law testify to the righteousness of God? Because you cannot truly understand human sin until you can at least get a glimpse at God's perfect righteousness. Think about moldy bread. I'm fat, so I got to use food analogies. If you never understood what a brand new, like just out of the oven, crunchy, smells good French loaf, like room temperature butter on the kitchen counter, right? All my carbaholics, you got to come on, just be with me here. If you had never tasted fresh bread, then you wouldn't understand that mold doesn't belong on bread, right? If the only bread you had ever eaten in your entire life was moldy bread, you would just assume that that's what bread is. Because, I mean, but then that would not, you slice bread, you leave it out, it gets moldy. We pull the mold off and we eat the bread. That's what bread is. But once you had experienced the good bread, right? That good, warm, crunchy, squishy, covered in butter bread, you would then realize how gross it is to have moldy bread. God's perfect righteousness is absent any iniquity. It's absent any badness. But because you and I were born into a world that already has moldy bread, we have struggled to comprehend the pureness of perfect French bread. That's what the law was supposed to do. It was supposed to show us why moldy bread is actually moldy bread, not normal bread. The law shows us what sin is. And then, in addition to God revealing what moldy bread is, he now reveals his full righteousness. And what is it? Verse 22. This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. Now, that's a big sentence, so let me deal with this. First, the righteousness, that is the purity, the un-sinful, un-dirty righteousness of God, the perfect French bread, is revealed where? Is revealed through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. So faith is the means by which righteousness is revealed. What's the object? The object is Jesus Christ. He's the reason we have access to God's righteousness. Not our own lifestyle. The fact that I cannot commit adultery doesn't make me a good husband. The fact that I actively don't do this sin or that sin or this sin or that sin doesn't actually make me righteous. No. It is my faith in Christ in which God applies righteousness to me. We are all sinners. If that's the only thing you learned in church today, I love you, you're not perfect. Most of us on the inside sort of get that. But we're not made perfect by what you do or by what you don't do. And here's another thing I think too many Christians get wrong. You're not righteous because you don't sin. You can sit in a chair for 12 hours a day and not think about anything and not actively do anything and still be a sinner. It's not right. It's not right. It's not right that you don't think about anything and not actively do anything and still be a sinner. It's not what you abstain from that makes you righteous. It's Jesus that makes us righteous. Why? Because verse 21, this righteousness, this righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to who? It is given to all who believe. Now, Paul's making a bigger point in the whole first part of Romans about the difference between Jews and Gentiles. And here, AD 49, I believe it is. Doug, if you're watching, correct me if I'm wrong. AD 49, the edict of Claudius. Claudius is the emperor of Rome at the time. And there's a huge uproar in the Roman capital city about whether Jesus is king. And so in order to get rid of this, he throws all the Jews out of the Roman capital city. And from AD 49 to whenever Claudius dies, which my brain is somewhere in like the 53, 54 range, there are no Jews in the Roman capital city. So the Roman Christians, they're all Gentile Christians. They're all people like me with a polytheistic background who've now committed to Christ. And so after Claudius dies and his edict is thereby canceled, the Jews come back home to the Roman capital city. They want to rejoin the Christian church but see they're Jewish Christians, not Gentile Christians. And now the Roman church has a major racial conflict because the Jews retain their Jewish heritage when they walk into their relationship with Christ. And the Gentiles don't have any of that. They just go straight to Christ through faith. And so that's this point here about there is no difference between Jew or Gentile. Paul is trying to solve a major racial conflict in the first century in the Roman capital city. And how does he do that? He does that by explaining that none of us are righteous in and of ourselves. We are righteous because righteousness comes through faith in the object of Jesus Christ to all who believe, which makes us all equals in two ways. Number one, we were all born sinners. Number two, we can all be saved by faith. Both make us equals. And it doesn't matter if you came to Christ as a very young child. And it doesn't matter if you haven't even yet decided to believe in Jesus. The point at which you place your faith, your trust in Jesus, you inherently receive the same righteousness that all the rest of us do. And somebody is sitting here thinking, but Pastor Bill, that's not fair. I've gone to church for 30 years. Jesus already answered this question with the parable of the landowner. So I'm going to give you the short version of that parable. There's a guy who owns land. He goes out in the morning. He says, Hey, Bob, come work for me. I'll pay you a full day's wage. And you go out into the field. Then a few hours later, Hey, Dan, come work for me. I'll pay you what's right. Hey, Sharita, come work for me. I'll pay you what's right. It gets down to the last hour of the day. Ray, do me a favor. Come work for me. I'll pay you what's right. Everybody goes into the man's field. Everybody works the full day. And then the landowner says, Listen, I want to pay the last guy first. So Ray walks up. I give him a full day's wage. Boom! See on your way. Then Sharita walks up. She gets a full day's wage. Dan walks up. Full day's wage. Bob finally shows up. He goes, Why are you paying those people who only worked for one hour the same that I worked for you all day? And I turn to Bob and I say, But Bob, I paid you everything I said I would give you. Why? How about you not judge me with what I choose to do with my own money? That's the parable. What does the parable mean? It means it doesn't matter when you come to Christ. You all get the same righteousness. So there shouldn't be any conversation between different believers about how righteous or unrighteous you are. Because it's not your righteousness to begin with. It started with him. It comes from him. It's given to us. And I don't care if you're still sitting here and you're not even sure about the whole Jesus thing yet. Or if you're watching this online later and you're like, I don't really think Jesus is it. That's fine. The moment you place your trust in Christ, we all get the same righteousness because it was his. I didn't earn it. I didn't buy it. I didn't get it. So verse 22, this righteousness that's given through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe means there's now no differences between us. And why is there no differences? Verse 23. Everyone is a sinner. Now somebody is going to hear this and they're going to be like, oh my gosh, you're calling me a bad person. No, I'm not calling you a bad person. I'm a sinner. My wife is a sinner. My children are sinners. My parents are sinners. Everyone is born a sinner. Why? Because if you follow the whole Bible story, which we didn't do today, but if you follow the whole Bible story, sin entered creation an awfully long time ago. And sin affected creation an awfully long time ago. And we were all born into a world of moldy bread. And it's the only bread we've ever known. So if all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, 23, don't separate that from 24. And all are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. I got to talk about this word justified for just a quick sec. Justified here in verse 24 is a legal term. What it means is, and Jim, I'm going to use an example here. You were driving the other day and got a horrendous speeding ticket. OK, so Jim got a speeding ticket. He is guilty. No, he's saying no. Lisa's elbow and go, you better not have got a speeding ticket. Not in that really nice truck of yours. It's going to be my truck. So Jim gets a speeding ticket so much so that he has to go to court and he has to stand before the judge. And the judge is standing here says, Mr. Jim, you are 100 percent guilty. I'm going to write down here in the record. You are guilty of this infraction. This is what is owed because of that infraction. And the judge lays out the price, whatever the price for his speeding ticket is. Then the judge puts down the gavel, takes off the coat, walks down to the clerk's desk, pulls out his own wallet, pulls out his debit card and pays the fine for Jim. Now, was Jim guilty? Yep. Was Jim judged as guilty? Yep. But did Jim pay the penalty for his guilt? That's justification. A lot of people like to try to claim that justified is just if I'd never sinned. That's actually not true. It is as if you sinned because you were found guilty, but someone else made the payment so that you are freed from having to pay for the crime that you committed. That is what justification really means. It is a legal term in which your guilt and the debt incurred or the payment incurred for your guilt is cleared off the books by the action of another. That's what justified means. So now we look at 23. For all of sin and fallen short of the glory of God. So everybody's a sinner. Everybody owes a sin debt. 24. And all are justified freely, meaning all have their debt paid freely by grace through redemption that came what? By Christ Jesus. And how do I get that payment applied to my sin account? By faith. But what is faith? By trust and commitment. And then how do I know that? Here's 25. God presented Christ as a sacrifice of atonement through the shedding of his blood. That's the payment for Jim's speeding problem. And for my sin problem. And for Steve and for Tyler and for Tara and for Rob. Everybody else. That right there, verse 20, the first part of verse 25. God presented Christ as a sacrifice of atonement through the shedding of his blood to be received by faith. This is how Christian salvation works. You were born into a world of moldy bread. It's not your fault. We didn't. We don't know any better. Quite honestly, the only way we can learn about the pre-sin world is by studying Genesis chapter one and two. That's all we get. We were born into a world where sin is already the standard of life. Everyone is born addicted to this substance called sin and left to your own devices. You will immediately give in to that. People ask me, well, why? Why am I being punished for Adam and Eve's sin? Here's what I like to say. If a woman who is pregnant with a baby. Uses illegal drugs. Will that baby be born with an addiction? Yes. Did that baby use illegal drugs? No, but it's still born addicted and left to its own devices. What's going to happen to that child? They will succumb to their addiction that they were born with without ever having to commit the actual action itself. That's what original or inherited center, whichever way you want to talk about it. That's what it's like in the real world. You and I were born addicted to this thing called sin because our parents were born addicted to it. Because their parents were born addicted to it. And line after line after line after line after line all the way back to the original couple. Who gave in to the first addiction. And then it just passes down the line. Now there's huge conversation we can have versus federal headship versus seminal headship like whatever. We want to have that conversation. We want to have that conversation. Ask me to connect card. But the basics of it is that's how you can be born a sinner without ever having actively sin before. Because you were born addicted to a substance called sin because your parents were addicted to it. And their parents were addicted to it. And it's only through the sacrifice of atonement of Christ shed blood to be received by faith. Now there's really only one question left to ask. And it's a question that I get all the time. But why? Why in God's omnipotent plan of salvation does he allow an entire race of humans to be born addicted to a substance that they never took themselves. And that the solution to that addiction is killing someone on a cross. That sounds really weird doesn't it Jen? Like can we just like take the churchy hat off for a second and go huh? Doesn't that sound weird? I think there's a very simple explanation to this why question. And here it is. Why does salvation, why is salvation purchased through trusting in Christ? So here it is. Let's rewind back to the first moment of addiction in the scriptures. Because again if we're going to talk about Christian salvation then we have to stay within the biblical story. We have to look at the whole Bible. What does it say? Let's go back to Eden. What was the first sin that took place in the Garden of Eden? What was it? Anybody want to guess? Okay everybody spoke at once. What did you say? Yeah. Distrust. Anybody else? What was the first sin that happened in Eden? Pride. That's a good one. Disobedience. I'm going to go with my wife's answer. Distrust. Because the eating of the fruit and of course we like to call it an apple. That's because we're Americans and there's lots of apple trees. If you go over to Africa they wouldn't call it an apple. They'd call it a banana or a matoka. But anyway what was Satan's original temptation? God didn't actually say that. That's the temptation. In questioning what God said. And then in questioning, Claudia I've got to be with you here a little bit. In questioning what God said, humanity replaces what it thinks is right with what God thinks is right. Right? But the original temptation that the serpent brought to Adam and Eve, and don't kid yourself, read it really carefully, who was with her? Men don't let yourself off the hook. It is not Eve's fault that the world fell into sin. It was Adam's fault. And if you read the text very carefully, Adam was standing right next to his wife while she was tempted by the serpent. And his silence is the greatest failure in scripture. He could have simply stood up and said, that is not what my father said. We will trust what my father said. But he doesn't. And Adam's failure affected the entire rest of the world. But the real sin here is not trusting God. The distrust led to disobedience. But the disobedience is the outcome. It is the outworking of the distrust that happened internally first. Disobedience is the outcome of distrust. Adam and Eve disobeyed God when they stopped trusting him. So now let me rephrase it. Why is it that salvation is purchased by trusting in Christ? Because Christian salvation is the reversal of the fall at Eden. Every single human being... Anybody ever heard two Christians sit down and talk about if they were in the Garden of Eden, they would have told the serpent to shove it? Anybody ever heard that? Just me? Okay. I've grown up in church a really long time. And there's always that one person who's super self-righteous. And they're like, man, if I was in Eden, I would have told Eve to not listen to that stupid serpent. Yeah. Here's the cool thing. Every single human being is faced with the same choice that Adam and Eve were faced with in the Garden. You will either trust what God says or you will trust what you want to do. You cannot do both. That is why salvation is purchased by trusting in God. Because when you trust in Christ, you reverse the original addiction to sin that was purchased in Eden because Eden stopped trusting in God. And the only way to reverse distrust is by placing new trust. That's why salvation by faith works. Because you and I today are faced with the question, is what God said true or false? It's the same temptation that the serpent brought to Adam and Eve in the Garden. God didn't really say that. Hell's not really real. God loves too much to judge. Yesterday on Instagram, I heard the fact that forgiveness happens means that God loves people more than rules. I'm bastardizing what he said, but that's kind of what he said. Because forgiveness happens, it means that God loves humans more than rules. I think that's a really dangerous edge to walk on. I think forgiveness happens because God is merciful. Because God would be fully just in burning the whole world because of sin. God would be fully just in making Jim pay for his own speeding ticket after Lisa made him pay for it. But God in his grace and in his mercy chooses to pay for Jim's speeding ticket. And he chooses to pay for my sin issues. And he chooses to pay for Tyler's. And he chooses to pay for Dino's and for Donna and every one of us. God chooses to pay for it. But the way that you have that payment applied to your life's account is by placing trust and commitment in God's word. Which undoes, thematically, the original fall that happened in Eden. This is why God has chosen faith as the means of salvation. Because if we go all the way back to the beginning of the Bible, what did God plan? God planned for a creation that is very good. That's the end of Genesis 1. Once Adam and Eve are created, creation is very good. God intended for human beings to live eternally in relationship with him. Being provided by the creation that he made and representing him in that creation. That's Genesis 1 and 2. God's intention for humanity was for us to fully trust him. And not just trust him. But fully commit to representing him. And Adam was actually the regent of Earth. Adam was like the prince. He was in charge of Earth until the distrust happened. And then we handed that over to Satan. This is why salvation is by faith. By trusting God. Because each one of us has to decide the same question that happened in Eden. Am I going to trust what God says more than I want to decide for myself what is right and wrong? Don't forget which tree they ate from. Right? They were abolished from getting to the tree of life. Because why? Because they ate the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. If you decide for yourself what is good and bad and right and wrong, you are not letting God determine that for you. That's the temptation. That's why placing trust and faith in Christ can't be just one prayer one time this one thing. We've done a lot of disturbing. And Baptists I'm going to say, I'm a member of your club too. We've done a really bad job at turning a sinner's prayer theology into like a one time fire insurance credit card. That because I prayed this one prayer when I was 11, but it doesn't change anything the way I think or anything the way I live or anything that I automatically... God owes me eternity in heaven. No. God doesn't owe you Jack. Can I say that in church? God doesn't owe you... God don't owe you nothing. Right? But he has decided in and of his own omnipotent grace and will. He has decided that even because even though he doesn't owe you anything, he will willingly pay your debt. If you will reverse the fall that our proto parents made, and you will trust him, and you will let him decide what's right and wrong, then he will willingly wipe your slate clean. And the end of the story is just as important as the beginning. The whole end of the Bible story when we studied Revelation last year and the year before, the whole point is we are headed back to an Eden style creation. But the only people who are going to be there are the people who chose to trust God. Why? Because the reason we were thrown out of Eden is because we stopped trusting God. It would not be just for God to take all of humanity, whether they trust him or not, and put him back into a very good creation. Why? Because we're just going to create the same problem. It's going to be a cycle. Right? If I take all of humanity and put him back in Eden, and then somebody's eventually just not going to trust God again. And then we go, here we go. The whole reason for trusting in God is because you and I in our trusting in God are destined for the new creation in which we get to have the relationship with God that he has always designed for us. But we have to be purified from our addiction first that we never did, but we were born addicted to. I realize that's an awful lot of ideas crammed into one sermon. So let me simplify. Salvation is being rescued from sin and restored to right relationship with God. Jesus Christ is the only way that that can happen. And the only way that you get the rescue and the restoration is by placing trust and commitment in what God said and what Jesus did. Does that make sense? So the only question that I have left to ask is, do you hope that Jesus is your Savior or do you trust that Jesus is your Savior? Because there's a big difference in those words. Jesus is the tightrope walker, the only one who can carry us from this world to the next world. Do you trust him enough? Do you trust what he said enough to get on his back and let him guide your life? Or do you still need to be in control? Because that's really the sin problem that Adam and Eve had. Their distrust of God is what made themselves their own God. When you decide what's right and wrong in your life, you're making yourself your own God. Sorry, there's really no nice way to say that. If you are the determiner of good, bad, right and wrong in your life, if you are the determiner of what is righteous and what is holy, then you're still dealing with moldy bread. You haven't actually had the good French bread yet. Because if you saw how pure, how good, how wonderful, how crunchy, how soft, how buttery, how delicious, I mean, I'm talking like Texas Roadhouse roll delicious level bread. Right? Cheers. If you saw that and then you saw yourself as moldy two and three week old crunchy bread, you would totally understand why. Right? That's why I need Jesus. I don't know about you, but I need like fluffy Texas Roadhouse rolls. I don't want crunchy moldy croutons. The best that my life can offer, if I could use a different passage, the best that my life can offer is, scripture says that my best righteousness is this filthy rags. That word filthy literally means used old menstrual materials. The filthy rags is literally what that passage refers to. And all the women are like, ah, right? My best righteousness is moldy croutons. It will never restore me to God's plan. I'm not talking it over. God's plan for my life. So here's my question. And I'm going to ask everybody to, I want everybody to pull out your Connect card, but I don't want you to fill it out yet. So if you're new here at Catalyst, there are cards in the back of every chair in this room. And you know, if you could put the link up, thank you so much. You can either scan the card on the back of your chair. You can use the paper card or you can go to this web address. Those of you watching online, it should be right here at the bottom of your screen. Connect with us today at catalyst302.com slash connect. Worship team, I'm asking you guys to come back up. Here's my question today. Are you actually saved? And I don't mean that as an insult. I don't mean that to insult you and be like, pastor, I'm going to church. Of course I'm saved. Listen, you can go to church and go to hell. Those two things go together. People can go to church and not trust in Jesus. Trust me. The day the rapture happens, there's going to be plenty of people who go to their church and find out it's a lot emptier or a lot fuller than they thought. So my question is, do you trust in Jesus? Will you climb on the back of the tightrope walker who is the only way to get you from here to there? And that trust means you relinquish control of deciding what's right and wrong in your life. And you submit to the teachings of the word of God. This is salvation in a Christian context. You can't be saved. You can't be saved. You cannot say, Jesus, save me and retain that I'm in control. That is not how it works. That's trying to have Eden and your own rulership. Either Jesus is the king of heaven or you are. There is no middle ground. So when I say, are you saved? What I am asking, I'm not asking you if you're a perfect person. I'm not asking if you live like a Christian. Trust me, that's all next to the question. I think we've gotten that one way off base too. But I've already been on long and I can't do both in one Sunday. So next Sunday, we're going to pick up where we left off here and we're going to go, OK, now that I do trust Jesus, what is my lifestyle supposed to look like? But this morning I have to ask the question. Has your trust in Jesus changed the way you live? Because if it hasn't, then I wouldn't be here. I wouldn't be here. I wouldn't be here. If it hasn't, then I want to talk to you about whether you actually trust him. Because you can trust Phil to make it across the tightrope line from the shore. That's not placing your trust in Phil. That's just, yeah, I think, I think, that's like saying, I believe that Jesus saves, OK? But has he saved you? That's a different question, right? I believe that Jesus has saved me. My trust and faith in him has applied God's righteousness to my life. And now he is the king and I am the subject. And my life is lived under his rule and not my own.