Worldviews Worksheet
from
Worldviews are the foundation beneath all faith and religion. There are only seven worldviews. Here is
a brief review of the seven worldviews and their answers to some of the “big questions” about life and
faith. The important thing to remember is every worldview is responsible to answer all the questions.
The question then becomes which set of answers is the most reasonable and the most liveable. If a
worldview fails to meet both tests (reasonable & liveable) it should be considered false.
atheism deism finitism theism polytheism pantheism panentheism
there is a god which
there is one there is one god there are everything is
is there there is there is one is always changing
unlimited but limited in power and multiple god and god is
a god? no god unlimited god and is both finite
absent god goodness limited gods everything
and infinite
god and/or
where did the
we do god is the creator something else god is the creator origin only god exists, god created the
universe come
not know of the universe created the of the universe myths vary everything is god universe and itself
from?
universe
right and wrong right and wrong are
how are right right and wrong are right and wrong are
right and wrong are opinions or determined by one’s right and wrong are right and wrong
and wrong determined by god’s relative to which
are opinions determined by opinion of gods illusions are opinions
determined? character god one follows
reason character
evil is evil is the opposite evil is from
what is evil is an evil does not exist evil is imbalance evil is an
that which of gods character or is a part
evil? opinion or is an opinion between the gods illusion
limits god and will of god
miracles do not
miracles violate miracles are miracles are miracles do not
can miracles happen because miracles are a miracles are the
nature and cannot possible but do not illusions and happen as they are
happen? god is unable or work of god acts of the gods
happen happen do not happen part of the process
unwilling
we are
we cease to we are absorbed by
what happens we cease there may be we live on in the we live on in the reincarnated, go to
exist or enter god or live only as a
when we die? to exist an afterlife afterlife afterlife an afterlife, or are
an afterlife memory
absorbed by god
© 2023 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.