Whathan deals with Good evening, catalyst, and Merry Christmas. We're so glad you're here to worship with us tonight. Why don't you stand and let's worship the Lord together. Let that nature sing. Joy to the earth, your Savior reigns. Let all their songs endure. Rocks, needles, and blood. Rocks, needles, and flame. Repeat the sounding joy. Repeat the sounding joy. Repeat, repeat the sounding joy of the Lord. The joy of the Lord is my strength. The joy of the Lord, the joy of the Lord is my strength. Oh my soul, bless his name. All that is within me say. The joy of the Lord, the joy of the Lord is my strength. Let it rise up like a river. Overflowing Holy Spirit. Let it pour out with no limit. Overflowing Holy Spirit. Let it rise up like a river. Overflowing Holy Spirit. Let it pour out with no limit. Overflowing Holy Spirit. He rules the world with truth and grace. And makes the nations prove. The glories of his righteousness. And wonders of his love. Wonders of his love. Wonders, wonders of his love. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Oh my soul, bless His name. All that is within me say. Oh my soul, bless His name. All that is within me say. Oh my soul, bless His name. All that is within me say. The joy of the Lord, the joy of the Lord is my strength. Oh my soul, oh my soul, oh my soul, the joy of the Lord is my strength. Raise your hands to the Lord, give Him a shout of praise. Lord, we thank You this evening. Lord, we thank You that You are with us. Lord, we celebrate Your life here on earth. Lord, thank You for the opportunity to worship You. Thank You for the opportunity to see You as the light of the world, Jesus. We give You praise. Light of the world, treasure of heaven. Brilliant like the stars in the wintry sky. The joy of the Father, reach through the darkness. Shine across the earth, send the shadows to fly. Light of the world, from the beginning, the tragedies of time were no match for Your love. From great heights of glory, You saw my story. God, You entered in and became one of us. Sing hallelujah, sing hallelujah, sing hallelujah for the things He has done. Come, ever born here, bow down before Him. Sing hallelujah to the light of the world. Light of the world, crowned in the manger, born for the cross. To suffer, to save, high King of heaven, death is the poorer. We are the richer by the price that He pays. Sing hallelujah, sing hallelujah, sing hallelujah for the things He has done. Come, ever born here, bow down before Him. Sing hallelujah to the light of the world. Soon will be coming with fire in His eyes, He will ransom His own. For clouds He will lead us straight into glory, and there He shall reign forevermore, oh, forevermore. Sing hallelujah, sing hallelujah, sing hallelujah for the things He has done. Come, ever born here, bow down before Him. Sing hallelujah to the light of the world. Will we give you praise and honor in this house tonight? Praise you, Jesus. The starry night a newborn King hawked the herald angels singing, Holy, holy. Uncle in a manger lay, God at three in one displayed His glory, glory. We hold Him, come and behold Him. Joy to the world our hope is given, He is the Son of heaven. Behold. The pilot life to all He brings, everlasting Prince of Peace forever and ever. The hope has come now here to dwell, the habit of Emmanuel Messiah, Messiah. We hold Him, come and behold Him. Joy to the world our hope is given. Adore Him, come and adore Him. For unto us our Savior has given, He is the Son of heaven. Behold. Rejoice, rejoice, rejoice tidings of comfort and joy. Rejoice, rejoice, rejoice tidings of comfort and joy. Rejoice, rejoice, rejoice tidings of comfort and joy. Rejoice, rejoice, rejoice, rejoice. Behold Him, come and behold Him. Joy to the world our hope is given. Adore Him, come and adore Him. For unto us our Savior has given, He is the Son of heaven. Yes Lord, tonight we've come to rejoice. Lord tonight we've come to revel in your birth, in your life, your goodness and your graciousness to us. Jesus we're so thankful for you. So thankful for this opportunity where the whole world can come together and celebrate the greatness of who you are. Lord I ask that as we're with our families tonight and tomorrow Lord that you just continue to remind us what the true meaning of Christmas is. Lord before the presents, before the food, before the family, Lord Christ you are first and we give honor to you and you alone. Lord thank you for this beautiful opportunity to worship you and celebrate who you are. We give you praise Jesus. In His mighty name we pray. Amen. You can be seated. Well good evening and Merry Christmas. To everybody who is here in the Wilmington campus and those of you joining us online, Merry Christmas. Thank you for making us and this service a part of your Christmas Eve. All month long we have been building up to tonight. Each of the Sunday sermons we've had since Thanksgiving has been building to here. So for the final time this month let me give you the key thought that links all of these messages together. Here it is. Christmas didn't happen in a vacuum. The birth of Jesus is a major event in a much larger story. And we've been seeing that over this past month. We look at the Old Testament expectation of Christmas. We look at the lineage of Jesus and what that tells us about how He came. We looked at the dating of Christmas and what year Jesus was likely born. All of that and then this past Sunday we looked at the witnesses. Who were the first witnesses of Jesus' birth and what does that tell us about His mission? And tonight I want to bring this series in for a close by answering the question why did God do all of that? Why? Christmas at all? To answer that we're just going to use four verses. So it should be pretty, yeah, it'll be really quick. Here you go. Let's turn to the Gospel of John chapter one verse nine. The Gospel of John chapter one. We're going to look at verses nine through 13. If you didn't bring a Bible with you, you have the catalyst app. There is a Bible built right into the catalyst app. John is the fourth gospel of the New Testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. We're going to look at chapter one verses nine through 13. So let's read it together and then I'll go through and make a few brief points. Here we go. Number one, excuse me, verse nine. The true light that gives light to everyone is coming into the world. He was in the world and though the world was made through Him, the world did not recognize Him. He came to that which was His own, but His own did not receive Him. Yet to all who did receive Him, to those who believed in His name, He gave the right to become children of God. Children born not of natural descent, nor of human decision, or a husband's will, but born of God. Let's rewind back here to verse nine as I try to answer for you the question, why Christ? First notice that John refers to Jesus as the true light that gives light to everyone. This is both literal and figurative. Jesus is the active agent in creation. John has already mentioned in the verses before this that Jesus was present at creation. He's equal with God and nothing was made that has been made that was made through Jesus. So Jesus is the active agent in creation. He is literally the one that when God said, let there be light, Jesus made light. He made the original light. But light and dark, good and evil are also major themes in the Gospel of John. And Jesus came to bring light to a darkened world. He came to bring goodness and forgiveness and salvation to a world that has corruption and pain and death. And that's what makes Him the true light. Notice in verse nine, Jesus comes to give light to everyone. And He is coming into the world. This is what we call the incarnation or incarnate. Jesus put on flesh. So His divine nature has always been divine, but He incarnate or He puts on flesh. He puts on humanity. And He stepped into creation. Literally it means He moved to, He traveled to, He approached. He closed the distance of His divinity to creation. Verse ten, He, meaning Jesus, was in the world. And though the world was made through Him, the world did not recognize Him. I think this is a major statement about who we are as humans, not necessarily who God is. He's in the world, so the Creator God steps into His own creation. And even though everything was made through Him, the world did not recognize Him. That word recognized literally means did not know, did not understand, did not grasp who He really was. The Creator God who made everything stepped into the world He made. And that world did not grasp or know or understand who He was. Verse 11, He came to that which was His own, but His own did not receive Him. So now John is limiting the scope to a specific people. He's saying He came to that which was His own. Well, who is that? Who is Jesus' own? Who is Jesus' people? The Hebrews, Israelites. Jesus came for the nation of Israel. Why? Because remember what we talked about all month long. From the Garden of Eden there was a promise that a son would be born that would defeat the enemy. A son would be born that would defeat sin. To Abraham, a promise was made that one of his descendants would be born that would bless the whole world. To David, a promise was made that one from your line will inherit your throne and rule forever as a king. Jesus now comes to fulfill all of those things, and Jesus is the promised Messiah of the Jewish people. He is the forever Davidic King, and yet they as a people do not recognize who He is. His own did not receive Him as the Messiah King that He was born to be. Verse 12, yet, notice there, it's like, whoop, but yet we're going to change directions. All who did receive Him, stop. First group is Israel. They did not receive Jesus. But then John gives us another group. He says, yet, all who received Him. So now we're not just talking about a group that's descended from Abraham that makes up Israel. Now we are talking about a group that's different. It's defined differently. Yet, to all who did receive Him, and then he defines that further, to those who believed in His name. Now John is saying it's not just the descendants of Abraham, the people of Israel who were supposed to receive Jesus and didn't. There's now this other group, and this group is defined specifically by believed in His name. Now I want to touch on this for a minute because I think, let's just be honest, there's been a lot of historical debates, and people have tried to say, well, believing in Jesus means this, it means that. You have to pray it this way. You have to do this thing. It's got to be the moon at the right phase, and you hold your hand right and stand on one foot. I just know. I want to be very clear. Verse 12 tells us exactly what it means to be saved. First, to receive Jesus, to know who He is. But that in and of itself does not salvation make, and here's why. Because the New Testament tells us that even the demons believe that Jesus is God. They're not saved. There has to be an additional step. It's not enough just to know that Jesus could be God. Oh, yeah, yeah, I believe there's a God. That's not enough. Don gives us an additional step to believe in His name. The word believe here literally means to trust or really to transfer the trust, transfer the leadership from my life, from myself to Jesus. So I have to understand who Jesus is. That's a intellectual step. And then, too, I have to make a volitional or a willful. I have to make a choice that I choose to give the leadership of my life to Jesus instead of myself. If you could imagine there was an actual like, you know, you could see into my heart and there's an actual throne there. You know, who's the king of my life? Lady, who's who's the queen of your life? Many of us sit on the throne of our own lives. Many of us decide for ourselves what is right and wrong, what is good and bad, what I'm going to do, what I'm not going to do, who I answer to. That authority question is big. What John is saying here is yet to all, meaning anyone born in Israel or outside of Israel, anyone who receives Jesus knows who he is and also believes in his name. Anyone who is willing to transfer leadership from themselves to Jesus for their life gets here's the next part of verse 12. He gave the right to become children of God to all who receive him, to those who believed in his name. He gave the right to become children of God. Two additional thoughts about verse 12. Number one, it's Jesus who gives us the right. It's not something that we demand or take from God. It is something that we receive and are given from God. God gives us the right to be what? To become children of God. And here's the big, when we know who Jesus is and we give him leadership over our life, our relationship with God. We are no longer just a part of his creation. We are a child in his family. But before we get too far off on what does it mean to be a child, John gives us 13 in order to clearly explain this. He gives us three things that our relationship with God is not. Here's the first one. Children born not of natural descent. Children born not of natural descent. That means your relationship with God being a child of God is not a biological thing. You're not going to wake up tomorrow, Percy Jackson or an X-Man and have some kind of supernatural powers because you're a Jesus follower. I'm sorry. I apologize. That's not what he's saying. The second, he says, children not born of natural descent, nor of human decision. This is the exercise of the human will or human choice. We do not become children of God just because we say so because he's the parent and we're the child. And then third, not born of a husband's will. And that one sounds a little weird, I think, for us in our modern day individualistic culture, but here's what he's saying. In the first century, fathers were very proud to have sons. And I would say as a father who has a son, I definitely feel that way. Of all of the children in my family, I get one son. My firstborn child was a son. All of the other children in my family are girls. So when all of my other girls grow up and my nieces grow up and they get married, what are they going to do? Well, they're going to change their last name and join whatever that new family is. When my great niece grows up, she's going to change her last name from her daddy's name and join that family. But not my son. When my baby boy grows up, he's going to be me. He's going to be the embodiment of my name in the next generation. He will be the only one holding down the Yom's clan for the next generation. And I don't know about you, but men, that that hits you in the chest. It doesn't mean I don't love my girls. Dear goodness. My children tell me all the time there's this thing called like cuteness aggression. When you like see something like girls, when you see a puppy and it's so cute, you're like, oh, that's how I feel about my kids. I love my kids. I want to pick my daughters up and squeeze them. I want to pick my nieces up and shake them when I give them hugs. But my son will inherit my name for the next generation. My son will pass on the Yom's name to his children. And there's something special about that. John wants us to understand that our father's son or father, daughter relationship with God. Has nothing to do with our human pride and desire for legacy. So if you look at 13 as a whole, well, let's go back. Look at 12, right? He says, yet to all who receive him, to those who believe in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. And then in 13, he tells us three things that it's not our being a child of God has nothing to do with our biology. Our being a child of God has nothing to do with our will or our human decision, because it's God's decision. And number three, our becoming a child of God has nothing to do with our pride in producing male heirs or in legacy. What does it have to do with? He really answers that in 12. It has to do with he gave the right to be children of God gives us the right and invites us into his family. We are always his creation. But we are not always his children. And herein lies the different. And on this night, as we get ready to celebrate the birth of Jesus tomorrow, I want to be clear about why we're doing. We're doing this because God made some promises in the Old Testament, and he promised us a messiah, Savior, King. Absolutely. We're doing this because there was 400 years of silence and then angels showed up. Absolutely. We're doing this because God created a perfect or a very good creation that got corrupted. Absolutely. We're doing this because. Jesus came to fix what's wrong with our world. And restore my religion. But tonight we're not going to take an offering. We're actually going to close the service right here with this one question. The most important question that I can ask. What is your relationship with Jesus like? What is your relationship with Jesus like? Are you a part of his creation? Or are you a child in his family? Now, every single week at catalyst, I ask every person to fill out a connect card. But tonight's going to be just a little different. So whether you are here in the Wilmington campus or you are joining us online, I want everyone to go to the same place. So if you're in the online chat, our online chat host is going to drop that link in there for you. If you're watching this on your computer or on your TV and you happen to have a phone or a tablet, I want you to go to see three oh two dot us slash. Xmas see three oh two dot us slash Xmas. If you are here in the Wilmington campus, if you have the catalyst app on your phone, just open the catalyst app and click the Christmas Eve button. If you are here with us tonight and you do not possess the catalyst app, then I want you to scan any of the QR codes that are in this room. So for those who are here, I want you to scan one of those codes, click the button in the app. For those who are joining us online, click the button that's in the chat, go directly to the web address. See three oh two dot us slash Xmas or click the button in the catalyst app. But I want to ask everyone to answer the question. And I've only been this reason why we're doing it differently. There's only really one question on tonight's connect card. If you want to ask a question or make a comment, you can. But there's only one important question tonight. Which of those sentences best describes your relationship with Jesus? There's three choices. I'm going to quote them, but I'm probably not going to be exactly right. Number one, you're not ready to make a decision about Jesus yet. I respect that choice. If you're listening to the sermon, even if you are joining us online after the service and you're watching the playback, are you ready to make a decision about Jesus? Maybe not yet. Maybe there's still some questions. Maybe there's some hurdles. That's what the question box is for. If you're not ready, I want you to click that. No, I'm not ready to make a decision about Jesus. But I have a question and I want you to type it in. The second choice there is I want to learn more about following Jesus. Maybe you're not yet a Jesus follower. You're still in that category. I call being a pre-Christian. You're still in the pre-Christian category. But you want to learn more about following Jesus. I want you to check that box on the connect card. The third one is for all of my brothers and sisters in Christ. Let me know that you're already a Jesus follower. And if you want to drop a question or a comment, you can do so. There's no offering tonight. This is literally where we have brought the service because this is the most important question that I can ask in your life is what is your relationship with Jesus like tonight? So please, every single person here in the Wilmington campus and online, go to that connect card and answer that one question for me tonight. Where is your relationship with Jesus? As you guys all finished answering your connect card, I'm going to close this in prayer and then we're going to go home. Be with our family. Lord Jesus, I thank you that you loved us so much that you brought your divinity into creation. You wrapped it in humanity to restore my relationship with you. Lord God, I thank you that you came. You died and you rose to save me from my sin and restore me to right relationship with you. Lord, help us to be brutally honest with ourselves on our connect cards tonight. And Father, help me to be the best representation of your walking, talking, gospel message. In Jesus name. I want to thank all of you who came here tonight and all of you are joining us online. Thank you for being a part of tonight's Christmas Eve service. I hope and pray that the time that you spend tonight and tomorrow with your family is blessed. You can please use your connect card if you have any questions, comments. I would love to hear them. But as a representation of not just myself, but from all of the catalyst leadership, the elders, the deacons, all of our staff, we love you. Merry Christmas. You