how to study the bible
from
The Bible is a collection of 66 books, written at different times, in different places, to different audiences. In order
to study the Bible, a student must first seek to understand what the original author wrote to the original audience.
Only then can the student explore how the original interpretation may apply today. Here is a simple four-step
method for studying the Bible. The “S.O.I.L. Method” stands for selection, observation, interpretation, and life
application. One simple mistake to avoid is moving too fast. The Bible is a rich and deep book, and you won’t be able
to take it all in at once. Here’s a rough breakdown of how much time to allocate to each step in the process:
10% - SELECTION, 50% - OBSERVATION, 30% - INTERPRETATION, 10% - LIFE APPLICATION
1: SELECT THE TEXT 2: OBSERVE THE TEXT
The goal of this step is to learn as much as possbile The goal of this step is to interrogate the text and look for
about the selected text for study. This means focusing the ‘who,’ ‘where,’ ‘when,’ and ‘what’ details. This step is
on the text as the object. What can we discover about all about “seeing” what is there. Don’t try to make sense
the selected text as a whole? Here are some example of it yet, just look and see what you can find. Here are
questions: some example questions:
1. Who was the original author of this text? 1. Who?
2. Who was the original audience? a. a single name: David, Abraham, Peter
3. Where does this text fit into the whole Bible’s story? b. a people group: Jews, Gentiles, Eyptians
4. What comes before and after the text? c. an implied group: everyone, angels, soldiers
5. When did the events of this text take place? d. a peron’s title: pharaoh, pharisee, servant
6. What is the literary genre of the text?
2. Where?
a. city/country: Jerusalem, Judea, Canaan, Rome
b. location: upper room, Jordan river, Temple
3: INTERPRET THE TEXT
3. When?
a. a time: 9 in the morning, the 6th hour
The goal of this step is to focus on making sense of
b. festivals: pentecost, sabbath, passover
the observations from step two. Now that you have a
c. implied time: next day, evening, immediately
list of observations you’ve “seen,” we need to begin to
d. event time: when he heard, after saying
understand what these observations mean. Here are
some example questions:
4. What?
a. objects: sheep, bread, stones, water
1. Literary Questions:
b. actions: sat down, taught, baptized, fought
a. Are there key words, terms, or themes?
c. Themes: prayer, forgiveness, sin, grace
b. Does the original language reveal anyting?
c. Are there words used elsewhere in the Bible?
2. Historical Questions: 4: APPLY THE TEXT
a. When did this passage take place?
b. Where did this passage take place The goal of this final step to ask how the text could
c. What is the political landscape at the time? apply to one’s personal life. This is the only step that
d. Where is this passage in the big Bible story? has the ‘modern’ perspective in view. Here are some
example questions:
3. Theological Questions:
a. What does this passage teach about God? 1. How can this passage apply to my life today?
b. What does this passage teach salvation? 2. What principles in the text can apply to modern life?
c. What does this passage teach about man? 3. Does the passage teach anything for the Church?
d. What does this passage teach about the Church? 4. Does the passage touch any social issues today?
5. Can I share encouragement from this passage?
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.