the big bible story
from
The Bible is a collection of 66 books, written at different times, in different places, to different audiences.
But, the Bible is also the Word of God, and we can see this in the fact that despite the different time periods,
people groups, and history that take place on the pages of Scripture, the Bible tells one big story from
beginning to end. Each book of the Bible is a part of the story, but it’s only when we “zoom out” and look at the
whole Bible we can see the big picture. Here is a simple four-part overview of the Big Bible Story: creation,
corruption, redemption, and restoration.
1: CREATION
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the
earth (Genesis 1:1). The story of the Bible begins with a 2: CORRUPTION
powerful Creator who made our world in six days. He
creates different parts of our planet each day, noting In the middle of the Garden of Eden, God placed two
that each day is ‘good’ (Genesis 1:10, 12, 18, 21, 25). On trees: the Tree of Life and the Tree of the Knowledge
the sixth day, God creates humanity, stating that now of Good and Evil. God instructed humanity not to eat
creation is “very good” (Genesis 1:31). God then creates a of the second tree. Death would be the consequence if
garden at a place called Eden where He walks and talks they chose to step outside God’s design (Genesis 3:2).
with Adam and Eve (Genesis 2:8, 3:8). Unfortunately, Adam and Eve both ate from the forbidden
tree. This choice of their own desires over God’s design
Main Idea: Humanity was created to live in relationship was the first human sin and had serious consequences
with God in His “very good” creation. (Genesis 3:12-19). Because of this choice, humanity and
the devil are at war, childbearing and marriage are
more difficult, and humans have to toil to grow food.
Additionally, the death of a sinless human would be
required as payment for this choice.
3: REDEMPTION
Main Idea: The world we live in today is a corruption of
The redemption price for the original human sin which God’s original design. Creation needs to be redeemed.
corrupted creation is the death of a sinless human
being. Unfortunately, now that sin has infected creation,
all humans born naturally automatically inherit the
4: RESTORATION
addiction to choosing their own desires over God’s
design (John 3:3, Psalm 51:5). This is why God sent His
Because of the death and resurrection of Jesus, those
own Son to be born miraculously and sinlessly. Jesus,
who place their faith in Him can be forgiven of sin and
the Son of God, became incarnate as a sinless human
restored to right relationship with God (John 3:16).
being in order to give His life as payment for the original
However, creation is still corrupt and must also be
sin of disobedience in the Garden of Eden (John 1:14,
restored. This is what happens in the book of Revelation.
Romans 5:12). Jesus had to die to purchase forgiveness
In the final chapters of Revelation, the big story of the
from sin for us.
Bible ends with the restoration of creation (Revelation
21:1-4). Humanity is once again free to live in relationship
Main Idea: Jesus had to die as a sinless human being to
with the Creator in a restored, sinless creation that
pay the penalty for the original sin in Eden.
will be “very good.” The restoration of creation will not
happen until the return of Christ and the events detailed
in the book of Revelation.
WHY JESUS?
Main Idea: While Jesus has already purchased
Jesus is the only person who: (a) lived a sinless human
forgiveness for sin, creation is still waiting for full
life, (b) died as payment for human sin, and (c) rose from
redemption and a return to an Eden-like state.
the dead proving He is God. This is why salvation can
only be found in the name of Jesus. All who repent and
trust in Him will be saved (John 3:16).
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.