The age of the earth
from
The Bible is not a science textbook, and it should not be read as one. However, the Bible is a
book of history, and it should be read as one. The Genesis account of creation is written as the
account of the origin of the universe, life, humanity, and faith. Christians should also understand
while an important issue, one’s position on the age of the earth is not a matter of heresy.
HOW OLD IS THE EARTH IN THE BIBLE? ARE THE CREATION “DAYS” 24HR DAYS?
The bible describes 2,000 - 4,000 years from Creation Hebrew word “Yom” can have three
to Abraham, 2,000 years from Abraham to Jesus, and meanings: (a) a 24 hour day, (b) the
2,000 years from Jesus to today. opposite of night, or (c) a reference
to a specific period (back in my day).
Even allowing for generational compression and
What clues exist to help us decide?
computational errors, the Bible describes creation as
less than 10,000 years old.
Modifying numbers (first, second,
third, etc) when used with “yom” in
WHAT ABOUT THE DAY-AGE THEORY? Scripture always refers to 24 hour
days.
2 Peter 3:8 says “a day is like a thousand years”. Couldn’t
this apply to creation? This verse is a comparison, not The words “evening and morning”
suggest a 24 hour day.
a definition. Peter is comparing “a day” to “a thousand
years”, not defining a day as a thousand years.
In Exodus 20:11 refers to creation
week as the reason for the Sabbath
Even if this were true, it would only add 6,000 years to
rest in the 10 Commandments
the age of the earth, not billions.
NEW TESTAMENT REFERENCES TO GENESIS JESUS ON GENESIS
Jude 14 refers to generations from Adam to Enoch In Matthew 11:23-24, Jesus refers to
the destruction of Sodom.
Hebrews 4:3,4,10 all refer to God’s seventh day rest
In Matthew 23:35, Jesus refers to
2 Peter 2:5 refers Noah and the flood as historical
Abel as a historical person
2 Peter 3:5 speaks of creation “out of water”
In Matthew 24:37-39, Jesus refers
2 Corinthians 11:3 refers to the deception of Eve
to Noah and the flood as historical.
Ephesians 5:31 quotes Gen 2:24 (man shall leave…)
In Mark 10:6-9, Jesus refers to
Matt 1:1 refers to Abraham as a historical figure God’s creation of male and female
Luke 3:37 refers to Adam as a historical figure and the foundation of marriage
© 2024 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.

The age of the earth
from
Radiometric dating is one of the key tools used by those who argue for an old earth. This method is
suspect for several reasons. Here is a brief introduction to the science of radiometric dating. While
different methods exist, this handout will focus on Carbon dating which is the most widely known.
there is also a brief review of evidence suggesting the earth is in fact young.
INTRODUCTION TO CARBON DATING
The 2nd Law of Thermodynamics states the universe is running out of usable energy. Matter
itself breaks down over time. The practice of measuring the decay of a parent element into its
daughter element is called Radiometric Dating. The most common form of this measurement is
Carbon14.
What is Carbon14? A carbon14 is created when solar radiated particles bombard earth’s
atmosphere and add one neutron to a Nitrogen14 atom. Over time, Carbon14 decays back to a
Nitrogen14 atom. It takes 5,730 years for half of the Carbon14 atoms in a sample to decay back
to Nitrogen14. This is called the half-life. After 10 half-lives or 57,300 years, there should be 0.1
percent Carbon14 left in the sample. After 100,000 years any sample should be completely lacking
any Carbon14.
ASSUMPTIONS IN RADIOMETRIC DATING EVIDENCE FOR A YOUNG EARTH
While this method appears to be reliable, it Human Population: Evolution contends
is built on several unproven assumptions. humans have been on earth for millions of
years. If this is true, there should be more
If these assumptions are found to be false,
humans alive today than could fit on the
the entire method should be disqualified.
planet! However, if the Biblical story of a
Here are three assumptions built into the
flood and repopulation is true, the population
radiometric dating method. count should be 6.7 to 8.1 billion people. There
are about 7.7 billion people alive today.
a: There was no daughter element in the
beginning. The Oldest Tree: Earth’s oldest tree is a Great
Basin bristle-cone pine located in California
named, “Methuselah”. It is 4,800 years old.
b: The elements have not been affected by
outside factors.
Dinosaur Soft Tissue: Multiple dinosaur
fossils have been found to have soft tissue
c: The rate of decay has always been same.
and even blood cells still in them. These
types of tissue should not have survived
100,000 years let alone millions.
© 2024 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.