Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Coach Bill. I'll be with you this week and next week. And then Pastor will be back so you can tell him exactly what you think of me and how much I hurt your feelings. So for those of you who have not met Coach Bill, Coach Bill is here to coach you. Because Coach Bill came here to coach winners. And in this series we have been talking about being successful in the fundamentals of our faith. Before I finish my introduction though, I want to say one thing about the Apostle Paul. This morning as we were coming to church we were trying to share with my children what the Apostle Paul meant. When he said, I have become all things to all men that I might save some. The Apostle Paul was a Jew. He had the education of a Gentile. He was able to flow in and out of the synagogue and the marketplace. Because the message of the gospel was so important that he was going to learn how to get along with every group and every tribe. That's amazing. The position that he placed the gospel in his life gave him the motivation to want to get to know and have things in common with everyone across his world. So in the spirit of the Apostle Paul, I'm going to do my best to get along with everybody today. So praise Jesus and fly Eagles Fly! That's my best chance at being the Apostle Paul today. And I hope that you appreciated that because you're not going to like my sermon today. I'll just go ahead and tell you that now. So every time you don't like my sermon you can say, well at least he now likes the Eagles. We did something right. So here's the key thought that messages all of these series, all these messages together. True success comes from getting better at the basics. True maturity seeks out values and submits to correction along the way. Pro athletes pay lots and lots of monies for people to correct the little things. Coach Jesse's been teaching me all about basketball and all the things that you have to be good at the fundamentals to be a good basketball player. And you never outgrow the fundamentals. In the same way we as Christians never outgrow the fundamentals of Christianity. We never outgrow the basics. We should get better at the basics. We should improve on the basics. But we never outgrow them. So if you brought your Bibles with you, turn or tap with me to the book of 2 Corinthians. The book of 2 Corinthians. If you want to look on the back of your bulletin, today is going to be your least favorite sermon of the year. We'll just go ahead and prep you right now. Because today we're going to talk about the fundamental practice of giving. Right? Remember I'm wearing the Eagle shirt so you can't yell at me yet. The fundamental practice of giving. It's a little bit sticky. It's a little bit uncomfortable. Jen, it's a little bit uncomfortable for me. Right? Also a Christian, everything I teach up here I have to live or I'm a hypocrite. Right? So let's just get the easy things out of the way. Today's uncomfortable and Coach Bill doesn't care. Okay? Also, in case anybody's wondering, no matter how good of a sermon I preach today, I don't get a raise. Right? Those who are on the budget and stewardship team, you guys can all say amen. Because that's not going to happen. I'm not up here teaching today because I want something from you. I'm up here teaching today because I want something for you. And that's I want you to be obedient to the word of God. So let's take a look at the book of 2 Corinthians. We're going to go to chapter 8. While you're turning to chapter 8, let me give you the back story here. So the apostle Paul is writing his second inspired letter to the Christians at Corinth. Paul actually wrote four total letters to the church at Corinth. The first two of Paul's letters are what you and I know today as the book of 1 Corinthians. So those two letters go together and they are 1 Corinthians. Letter number 3 was not an inspired letter. It was a yo, what's up kind of letter. So that was not a Holy Spirit inspired letter. That was just a Paul letter. That letter has been lost to time. It was not saved. It was not copied because the church didn't recognize the spirit behind the page. And so we didn't have the need to copy it. Paul's fourth letter to the church at Corinth is what you and I are about to read here. It's known as 2 Corinthians. We're going to go to chapter 8. In this passage, Paul is not only defending his apostleship from attack, but he is urging the Corinthian church to give financially to the Jewish Christians in Jerusalem who are in need. So in the book of Acts, Paul does these really big trips around the Mediterranean world. We call them his missionary journeys. And on these journeys, he collected money for those who were hurting. In this instance, the Corinthian church is rich and wealthy and has money. And the Jerusalem church is on the other side of the Med and they are not doing well. There's a famine. They're just, they need help. So let's go 2 Corinthians chapter 8 starting in verse 1. Now, brothers and sisters, we want you to know about the grace that God has given the Macedonian churches. In the midst of a very severe trial, their overflowing joy and their extreme poverty welled up in rich generosity. For I testify that they gave as much as they were able and even beyond their ability. Entirely on their own, they urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in this service to the Lord's people. Verse 5. And they exceeded our expectations. They gave themselves first of all to the Lord and then by the will of God also to us. So we urged Titus just as he had earlier made a beginning to bring also to completion this act of grace on your part. But since you excel in everything, in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in complete earnestness and in the love we have kindled in you. See that you also excel in this grace of giving. I am not commanding you, but I want to test the sincerity of your love by comparing it with the earnestness of others. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor so that you through his poverty might become rich. 10. And here is my judgment about what is best for you in this matter. Last year you were first not only to give but also to have the desire to do so. Now finish the work so that your eager willingness to do it may be matched by your completion of it according to your means. Verse 12. For if the willingness is there, the gift is acceptable according to what one has, not to what one does not have. Our desire is not that others might be relieved while you are hard pressed, but that there might be equality. Verse 14. At the present time your plenty will supply what they need. So in turn their plenty will supply what you need. The goal is equality. As it is written, quote, the one who gathered much did not have too much and the one who gathered little did not have too little. Now I get the fact that there's probably a lot of passages that I could have chosen to talk about the fundamental practice of giving, but I wanted to bring you something that was real and historical. Right? We could have done the parable of the talents and applied Jesus' parabolic teaching. We could have gone Old Testament, but this is the New Testament church under the leadership of the Apostle Paul in action. I wanted to bring you the boots on the ground in human form, best picture that I could from the scriptures of what Christian giving looks like. So let's go back. Let's go back to verse one and let's break it down a little bit first. And now brothers and sisters. Brothers and sisters. Does anybody's Bible just say brothers? Right? Okay. A couple. Right. So here's why that is. So in the Greek the word is Adelphos or Adelphos and it literally means brethren. Right? It means fam. So when he uses the word Adelphos, the word is brethren kinfolk. Right? For those of you like a little southern twang on it. So I could say and now on my kin. Right? That's what he's saying. That word Adelphos does not mean only the male members of the church. It's an all y'all kind of word. But typically when we were saying like for instance when we say all men have sinned. Right? For all humanity is sinned. We're not just saying it's all dudes. We're saying it's men and women. That word Adelphos is addressed to all believers because y'all all be my kinfolk. Yuppert. That's right. Y'all all be my kinfolk. Somebody's got the song in their head. I know it. And now brothers and sisters we want you to know about the grace that God has given the Macedonian churches. So now he's talking about groups of churches. Remember in the first century that every town only had one church. It's not like today where you could drive down the block and there's this church and that church and that brand and this brand and this theology and that theology. All the Christians in one town would all meet together. So when he says the Macedonian churches, it would be like if I were to tell you today all the Delawarean churches, all the Floridian churches, all the Carolinian churches. He's talking about all the Christian churches within a specific group. Verse two. In the midst of a very severe trial. How many of you realize life doesn't wait for trials to be over for good things to happen? That's what he's saying. In the midst of a very severe trial, this group of Delawarean churches, their overflowing joy and their extreme poverty welled up in rich generosity. Verse two is a math problem. You take overwhelming joy, add extreme poverty equals rich generosity. That doesn't sound normal. Right? If I were to say my overwhelming joy and also my overwhelming provision equals generosity. But Paul's saying the Macedonians did it the other way around. Because of the overwhelming joy, their poverty did not stop their generosity. That's a challenge. That's a challenge for us today. Especially, and I love, I love being born in this country. I believe we are living in an amazing time where the freedom to say the name of Jesus on the outside doesn't come with any legal recourse. We're not being jailed. We're not being killed. We're not being hunted. We don't have to be underground like the church in other countries. It's an amazing blessing to be an American Christian. But it comes with a challenge. It comes with a challenge because you and I live in a culture where we have drive through speed to get what I want. Right? You know my favorite thing about living in Delaware? Amazon Prime deliveries. Yeah, when my friends from Virginia and Florida are like, Bill, you've been in Delaware for a year now. What's your favorite thing? I said, same day Amazon. That's my favorite thing. My home printer runs out of ink because we need to home school. Melanie can order an ink cartridge and it's on the doorstep before we wake up the next morning. That's blessing. But it also trains me to not be patient. Right? I want it. I want it now. Right? Living in Virginia where we live, we live so far out in the sticks. You were lucky if it was a 5 or 6 day delivery. I move here and all of a sudden, you're already nodding your head. You have no idea how used to that prime button is, man. We are so used to give it my way and have it now. This sort of drive through delivery affects our entire life. We don't have joy a lot of times because you get your fulfillment too quickly. It's a have it your way kind of culture. You and I don't have my way on Sundays. Chick-fil-A. That's the only thing I don't have my way. And here in verse 2, Paul is saying, listen, the Macedonian Christians, they had it right. They had overwhelming joy in the midst of their extreme poverty, still welled up in rich generosity. America's are poor on generosity. Christians are poor on generosity. And we're supposed to be the generous ones. You know, somebody posted, I'm in a pastor's group on Facebook where it's pastors from all over the country. And somebody posted a really cool article this morning. There's a, you've heard me refer to Bart Ehrman before. He's an atheist New Testament scholar. He teaches at UNC Chapel Hill. This article was talking about how much money he gives to charity. And the article was deemed, you know, he might debunk Christianity, but he still gives like believers. He still honors his roots. He made a half a million dollars off his blog last year. And he didn't keep a dime. Half a million dollars. And he gave it away to five different charities. And the article goes into how philanthropic he is. And he even, he attributes that to growing up as a Christian and knowing the value of generosity. He's now deconstructed and debunked his own faith. He's walked away from Jesus, but he still walks in generosity. I don't know about you, but I'm hard pressed to find somebody who loves Jesus, who walks with a half a million dollars worth of generosity in a single year. You know what I'm saying? We need to be a little more, verse two, and a little less who we are today. So let's go to verse three. For I testify, this is Paul test, for I testify that they gave as much as they were able and even beyond their ability, entirely on their own. A lot of times when the topic of giving comes up in church, people want me to just set a standard and go, OK, you've got to be here and make that standard apply to everyone equally. Right. That's what you want. And when we get to the end of the sermon, I'm going to answer the questions on everybody's mind. What about tithing in the New Testament church? I'll get there. I promise none of you are going to like my answer, but I'll get there. What I want you to see here is before we get there in verse three, Paul testifies that each person gave as much as they were able and even beyond their ability. The New Testament model of financial giving is sacrificial, not mathematical. The New Testament model is sacrificial, not mathematical. So everybody just gear up to be upset. We keep going. Verse four, they urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in the service to the Lord's people. Did you realize what Paul's saying here? He's saying that the fundamental habit of Christian giving is participating. It's the privilege of participating in the service of what's being done. I don't know about you, but I've I've I've grown up in church my whole life. I have been blessed to not have wandered far out of the sheet pan, although I ran as hard as I could. I got stuck in quicksand and the Lord stopped me from going too far. But I tried. So I feel like I tried. Here he's saying, listen, they urgently pleaded for the privilege of giving. Just just pull. If that one doesn't check your heart, I don't know. I don't know what's going on. He said they urgently pleaded for the privilege of sharing in this service to the Lord's people. How often do you look at the time of tithes and offerings as the privileged part of the service? Well, I get a privilege to be a part of this. That's how the Macedonians looked at it. Verse five, they exceeded our expectations. They gave themselves first to the Lord and then by the will of God to us. Also, where did the Macedonians get this inner joy? Get this desire to be a part of the service through giving. They got it by submitting to God first. See, when you submit to God first, then you use his words and his rules and his word to tell you how to live. So when you submit to God first and then the Lord says, OK, I need you guys to do this for my people. Roger that God. OK. But if you weren't submitted to the Lord first and then somebody came to you and said, I need you to do this for my people. Why do I need to do that? Are you doing? I'm only going to do what they're going to do. I'm only going to be equal. I'm not going to sacrifice more. You see how the selfishness goes away if you were to put God first and put the money second. What did Jesus say? A man cannot have two masters. Either he will love one and hate the other or he will hate one and love the other. You cannot serve both God and money. Can't do it. Can't do it. If money is the number one thing in your life, God is automatically two at best. I would also argue if money is the number one thing in your life, self-pleasure is probably two. God's maybe a close three. But when God is first in your life, that means everything else submits to it. When God is first, that means I submit to him in the way I treat my wife. When God is first, I submit to him in the way I treat my kids. When God is first, I submit to him in the way I work. When God is first, I submit to him in every other aspect of how I live. And that includes how you manage your finances. That's how they got to this joy of disciplined sacrificial giving. It was by putting God first. Verse six. So we urged Titus. So if you don't know who Titus is, Titus is another young man, a protege that Paul has been raising up to be a church planner, to be a minister. At this point, Titus has been deployed separate from Paul to go and collect this money and meet up with him in Jerusalem to do the ministry effort. So we urged Titus, as he had earlier made a beginning, to bring also a completion on this act of grace on your part. So if you want me to translate that. So we told Titus, since he started the collection, he should also bring it to completion by collecting some from you. That's what he's saying at the end of verse six. This act of grace on your part. The act of grace was the participating in the giving for the Jerusalem church. Your part meant the Corinthians. So I've sent Titus to you. So like the Macedonians, you can have the privilege of participating in this effort, which he calls a grace on your part. Then in verse seven, now he's going to be really smart. He's going to play to the vanity of the Corinthians here. But since you excel in everything, in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in complete earnestness and in the love we have kindled in you. Here's what I want you to know about Corinth. If you're not familiar with your New Testament or your ancient Near Eastern New Testament geography, which most people don't walk in the door like dialed up on that one. Corinth sits on a very narrow, Ith Smith. And I say that word wrong every time. It's Smith's of land. There's a body of water here. There's a body of water here. And there's a small kind of jut out from the land. Corinth was incredibly wealthy because of its position on this land. Because, see, rather than have to sail all the way around the land, what they would do is bring the cargo, use the land itself, cross the cargo on land, put it on another ship and then take it into the Med. So they're right in the middle of a trade route. And what and let's let's keep this PG. But what do sailors do when they get off the boat and they've been at shore a long time? Right. They want to cut loose. They want to party. Corinth was the ancient Near Eastern Las Vegas. It was Sin City of its time. It was rich. It was opulent. And it was sinful. And they were proud of themselves. If you read all of 1st and 2nd Corinthians, both of them are letters of correction. Paul's going, guys, y'all are really missing out. They would turn communion into a full on feast meal and they would get sloshed drunk at church and only the rich people could come into the meal. The poor people had to stay out there. The poor people had to wait until all the rich people had eaten and were so drunk they couldn't move and then we'll give some to the poor people. Does that sound Christian in any way, shape or form? No, that's one of the things Paul had to correct about them. They were misapplying the grace that God had given them. So here in verse 7, he's playing to that vanity and he's saying, listen, you guys excel in everything, right? In your faith, in your speech, in your knowledge, in your complete earnest, in the love that we have kindled for you. So guess what? See that you also excel in this grace of giving. Right? Doesn't that just hit you? Wow. Yeah. I know, you know, when we talked about prayer, but pastor, I'm going to go and I'm going to practice prayer this week. We talked about fasting. Lord, love you. I love the amount of phone calls I got. Pastor, I want to try that. Can you help me walk me through my first week? Yeah, man. I literally had probably five or more different people ask me, how can I do that? How many of you are clamoring to give an offering at the end of this service? Right? But wait a minute. Wait a minute. Since you excel in everything, right? I can just basically read this verse back at you. Since you excel at everything, see that you also excel in the grace of giving. You cannot escape the simple reality that if you are a Christian, if you have placed your faith in Jesus, then you have placed your faith in someone who gave up so you could have. That's the foundational element of our faith. Is that Jesus gave up so we could have. In fact, look at, let's skip the verse eight. I am not commanding you, but I want to testify the sincerity of your love by comparing it with the earnesty of others. If I had to check the sincerity of your maturity by looking at your giving record, what would it look like? If I had to test the sincerity of your maturity. Oh, pastor, I love church. Man, I love worship. I love that. I love the word. I don't like that whole collection thing at the end. It feels wrong. Well, why does it feel wrong? You know, here, I'm going to tell you the God's honest truth. Best lesson I've ever learned in ministry. Lots of people call me to pray for them when they have a job interview. And I'm not sure, and I know I've had this conversation with a few of you, but like Rob, I'm not sure if people think I have like a special bat phone. You know, it's like a special clergyman. It's like a special clergy only flip style phone that I can pull out of my desk that the Holy Spirit's on speed dial. But people just assume as a pastor that my prayers are somehow more effective. And so they'll ask me, oh, pastor, I have this great job interview this week. Will you please pray that God will bless me with this job? I've stopped saying yes when people ask that. Instead, this is what I said. I said, man, it would be a privilege to pray for you to get that job. Will you commit to giving back to the Lord out of the blessings you get from that job? If you can't say yes, I can't say yes. Yeah, it's amazing how many people stop calling after that. Right? All of a sudden, let's put some maturity on the line. I will totally pray that you get blessed. How about you step in and bless somebody else? Well, no, no, no, but I wanted this job for me. Well, then why do I want God to give it to you? Did God give you the job for you? Pastor Rick, my mentor, several of you met. He would constantly, when he preaches on this topic, he says this. The church has all the money it will ever need to do everything God has called us to do. It's sitting in your checking accounts. That's Pastor Rick. I can't take credit for that one. That one's all him. Amazing, amazing man. We get to verse 9. So obviously, he's talking, he's making an analogy here with Jesus. What is the richness that Jesus had? He was God. When did Jesus become poor? The incarnation. He set aside and became a human being. Because God became human. And why did God do this? So that through his poverty, through Jesus' poverty, he became rich. And he became rich because he was a human being. So that through his poverty, through Jesus' humanity and death, you and I might become rich. The entire foundation of Christianity rests on someone who had giving for someone who couldn't. That's everything about our faith. It's the entire foundational layer. And we want to ignore it. We want to take it off. We want to say, yeah, but I just like worship. And man, I really like the Bible. And I like apologetics. And I like theology. I don't like self-discipline. Okay? I mean, guilty. I don't like self-discipline. It's so much easier to live life with no integrity. I'll tell you, I'll do something, just fail. And then not care because I don't care about you. That's so much easier. That's not the life you and I have been called to live. And that's definitely not what Jesus died to set us apart for. He set us apart to be his people. He set us apart to live his example. What is his example? To take that which I have been given and give it so that someone who does not have may have more. That's his example. Verse 10. And here is my judgment, what is best for you in this matter. Last year, you were the first to not only give, but also have the desire to do so. Now he's calling the Corinthians on their own record. He says, wait a minute, guys. Last year, when you heard about your Jerusalem brothers, when you heard what was going on, y'all were first to bat. Y'all were first up. We got you, Paul. Just come and get it. We're good. What happened in a year? Do you think about that? What happened in one year that they went from first to bat? Let's do it. Let's bless these people. Those are our brothers. The gospel will move forward. Let's go do this. To a year later, Paul's got to send Titus to remind them to give. That's all the verse says. It doesn't tell me what happened in that one year. But if the Corinthians can go through that, I have to admit you and I probably can too. Anybody ever felt that? You are like legit on fire for God. The Holy Spirit is like co-piloting your car every day to work. And a few short months later, you feel like you're in a dry spell. You feel like you're outside. That God is more distant than he was when he was beside you. I felt like that several times. I know what that feels like. Now, then you got to rely back on your theology. Was God actually any more distant from you? No. You're using your feelings to determine truth. You're not using truth to determine truth. Your feelings will never be an adequate determiner of truth. So says Coach Bill. If you make your decisions based on your feelings and not truth, you're just wrong. I love you and I love to tell you the truth. Your feelings won't tell you what's right and wrong. Truth will tell you what is right and wrong. Verse 11. Now, finish the work. What is he saying? You guys were first to bat to give to those who needed a year ago. Get on the horse and get it done. Finish the work that you started. So that your eager willingness, meaning the eagle willingness from a year ago when they jumped in the first time, your eager willingness may be matched by your completion. They were eager to give then, but don't feel like fulfilling it now. Have you ever been like super, super excited to start something? And then the energy wanes. And then the energy to follow through fails. And then you sit back and go. And then what happens is we get discouraged, right? Or at least I'm not going to blame anybody else. I'll say I get discouraged. When I gear up my discipline and I get myself geared up to do something new, to try something new, and I just I can't seem to make that new thing into a full habit, then when I fail, I get discouraged and I don't want to try again. I'm like, oh, I tried that. It didn't work. Right. No, I tried that and I didn't work. I didn't work it. I didn't stay true to what I knew I should do. And that's why I failed. It wasn't the plan. I didn't follow through. Verse 12, if the willingness is there, keep in mind this is the willingness that they showed a year ago. They wanted to give. They were first in the door. If that willingness is there, the gift is acceptable according to what one has, not according to what one does not have. A year ago, the Corinthians were the first to say we will support our brothers. We will give. Not out of any sort of compulsion, but out of this desire to be generous. And guess what? A year ago, they did it. And the Macedonian churches then followed suit. And now Titus is back in Corinth. And they're going, but wait a minute. If your willingness is there, then everybody gives according to what they have, not according to what they don't have. Verse 13, our desire is not that others might be relieved while you are hard pressed, but that there might be equality. 14, at the present time, your plenty will supply their needs. So in turn, their plenty will supply your need. The goal is equality. Now stop. Let's make something very, very, very, very, very super clear. Paul is not preaching Marxism. Paul is not preaching the equity of wealth from a governmental standpoint. He is because a lot of people try to take this and twist it into something he's not saying. Keep the context. The Corinthian church a year ago was the first to give when they heard that people were hurting. When they heard that there was people in need, there were opportunities for ministry. The Corinthians were first in the door. What were they in the door for? Because their super rich Las Vegas city was going to provide the necessary funds for the poverty stricken city of Jerusalem. Got to keep it all in its first century context. So when he says here, at the present time, your plenty will supply the needs, so that in turn, their plenty will supply your need, he is not talking about some government enforced equality of wealth. He's still talking about sacrificial generosity when ministry presents itself. Corinth was a richer city. It had the money to spare. Jerusalem, at this time of this letter, was a poverty stricken city and it had the need. When the ability meets the need, ministry happens. So I don't want you to misapply or take verse 14 out of context. He's not talking about government. He is talking about ministry. And in order to prove that, let's take a look at verse 15. As it is written, the one who gathered much did not have too much and the one who gathered little did not have too little. Coolest words in this entire verse 15, as it is written. You know what he's saying? He's saying, I'm going to tell you a verse from the Old Testament. As it is written means a part of scripture. So if you want to turn there, the as it is written comes from Exodus chapter 16 verse 18. So I'll grab this one. This is what I want you to see. This is where it all comes down to. Exodus chapter 16 verse 18. That's where the actual passage comes from. 16. I'm going to start reading it. Verse 17. The Israelites did as they were told. Some gathered much and some gathered little and they measured it by the Omer. The one who gathered did not have too much and the one who gathered little did not have too little. Everyone gathered as much as they needed. So then Moses said to them, no one is to keep any of it until morning. What is he talking about? He's talking about the manna in the wilderness. If you didn't look up this verse, you'd probably miss the coolest part of Paul's argument. He's not arguing for some sort of installed wealth management. Let's talk about what the manna was. Who supplied the manna? God did. Why is the manna supplied? Because his children are walking through the wilderness because of disobedience. The manna is grace on grace. But there were rules, right? There were rules to the manna. Five days a week you collected only one night. You're only allowed to have that one night. On the night before the Sabbath, then and only then were you allowed to collect two nights. So God's supernatural provision provided for them daily so they could learn daily obedience. Then in order to doubly provide for their day of rest and worship, then his miraculous provision has a miraculous change to it. And now they get twice as much as they need the night before the Sabbath. But what happened to those who tried to stockpile the manna overnight? It rotted. It turned to worm-filled rot. What was the lesson for the Israelites? God is true and faithful to provide for our needs even if it's daily. In fact, Jesus refers to that. Give us this day our daily bread. He's referring back to the manna in the wilderness. But Paul's making an additional application when he's talking about Christian giving in ministry. Have any of you ever realized what happens to your wealth after you die? And spoiler alert in case you weren't sure, you don't keep it. No matter how much physical wealth you and I attain in this life, it stays in this life. You don't keep a single red cent when you graduate to the next life. Just like the Israelites couldn't keep a single bit of the manna overnight. It just became rot. The stockpiling of wealth in this life isn't necessary for a Christian. Why? Because Jesus said, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, not here on earth. If Jesus instead, store up for yourselves treasures on earth, then I could have preached it. But that's not the way he said it. That's not the way it went down. God in this verse, by Paul referring back to the miraculous provision of the manna, he's reminding the Corinthians, number one, where does all your provision actually come from? God. All of our provision. Now you're going to say to me, but Pastor Bill, I go to work. I own my own business. I work hard for what I make. Yes, you do. But did you make the breath in your lungs? Did you give your heart the beat that it beats? All of our work is capable because of what God has given us. And remember, work preceded the fall. So don't forget, work is not a consequence of sin. Work preceded the fall because God gave Adam a garden and told him to tend it and keep it. Work preceded the fall and so did God's provision. And by referring back to the miraculous provision and the non-stockpiling, he picked the exact passage where he said, don't keep it overnight. What happened? Because of the way God led his people, everyone received what they needed. That's what he's trying to tell the Corinthians. All of the provision that you have in your life, every red cent sitting in your bank account right now is from God. Every bit of it. We are not owners. If you were an owner, then you'd take your 401K with you to heaven. I haven't found that one. I didn't find out how to... John, I don't know how to sign up for that one. Right? So if you can't take it with you, by definition, you're not an owner because you don't have the rights over it. So if I'm not an owner, well, what am I? You're a steward. You are given something for a season, and you're not going to be judged on how much you were given. You're going to be judged on what you did with it. There's the purpose of the parable of the talents. You are not judged on what God put in your life. You are judged on what you do with it, on how you used it. And that's not just your finances. Please don't think I'm only just talking dollars and pesos. That's your intelligence. That's your children. That's your marriage. That's your influence. That's your time. Time is the single most non-renewable resource in your life. How much of it do we give to God? Money is the easiest... You know, the other thing that money does? Money tells you where your heart is. You want me to know your priorities? I don't want a speech. I want to see your checkbook. Your checkbook will tell me where your priorities lie. They'll tell you what comes first. Right? So, first, let me answer the question that's going to upset everybody. And then I'll try to calm everybody down and bring it in for a landing. So, here's the first question. What about tithing? Let's just put all the churchiness down and let's have a blunt and very honest conversation. Because again, Coach Bill don't care how you feel. But one thing I'm not going to back down from is what the Bible says. If there's one thing I'm going to do is I'm going to tell you what the Bible says on the chin. And hopefully you'll come back next Sunday. So, what does the Bible say? The word tithing is used 4 times in the New Testament. The Greek word for tithing is used 4 times in the New Testament. In all 4 of those times, it refers to the Old Testament practice of tithing. It does not install tithing on the New Testament. Okay? So, the half of the room that was waiting for me to tell everybody, everybody must give 10%. You guys are all mad. You guys are all mad. That's not what the New Testament says. Now, does that mean tithing is not biblical? No, it doesn't. Tithing is biblical. It's in the Old Testament law. Jacob and Abraham gave tithes to the Lord before the Old Testament law. So, tithing and giving to God exists pre-law. The only thing I can't promise you is from all of my research, I don't see where Abraham and Jacob tithed regularly. Abraham's tithe was after a battle against 10 kings and it was a special time. Jacob's tithe isn't shown regularly. It's only shown once. So, do I believe that New Testament Christians are required to tithe? No. Does that mean tithing is not biblical? No. Tithing is absolutely in the Bible. It's in Abraham and Jacob and the law and all throughout the Old Testament. Is it a bad benchmark? No, it's not a bad benchmark. But of the 4 times tithing is mentioned in the New Testament, it is not installed on the New Testament church as it is in the Old Testament law. Okay, so now half of you are upset. The other half that are going on the inside, thank goodness. He's not going to tell me that standard. What's the New Testament standard? Give until it hurts. So now the other half of you are upset. I told you no one was going to like this sermon. What's the New Testament standard? The New Testament standard is very simple. Give until it hurts. Not just what you're able, but beyond what you're able. You want me to tell you why I think teaching tithing hurts a church more than it helps? Because if I were to draw a straight line and say everybody should give 10% of their income, it'd be like going to the doctor and the doctor writing the same prescription for everybody, not taking into account their lifestyle or their symptoms. For some people, listen, there have been seasons of my marriage and my family where giving 10% of my income was not mathematically possible, right? Giving 5%, 6%, bro, that was the stretch of stretches for us, right? So if I draw a 10% line in the sand and I require everybody to give 10%, those who are unable to meet it feel condemnation, feel like they're not enough. They're not good enough. And those who are financially blessed enough where 10% doesn't hurt, you guys feel self-righteous like you've done your duty. You've done enough, right? I can't do that because Paul didn't say that. You know what he said? He said each person give according to their own means. You know what he also said? He said every single person should give every single week. That's in 1 Corinthians. Every day on the first, or every first day of the week, each one of you should bring a gift to the Lord. That means everybody should give every week. That's why I'm not installing number. I'm not going to sit here and tell you everybody's got to give X% or Y dollars because that's not what the New Testament teaches for you and me. What the New Testament teaches is every person should give every week according to their means. Now, maybe sacrificial giving for you is giving up 2 or 3 of those $7 coffees and giving the Lord $10. I just stung some people. I know you did. John, maybe you and I need to eat a little bit less ice cream. Yeah, come on. Sacrifice. What that means is not appropriate for me to give you in a number because that's not what the New Testament says. Now I'm really... So, if you weren't upset yet, you're going to be offended at this next thing. Do you know the one thing that the New Testament requires you to pay for? Did you know that? There is something in the New Testament that you as Christian believers are 100% required to pay for. Do you know what that is? Your church staff. If you want to turn, and I'm not making it up, 1 Corinthians chapter 9 verses 13 and 14. Those who make their living off the gospel or do the gospel for their living should make their living from it. You know the one thing I'm allowed to stand up here and require you to pay for? Christina and Melanie and Tyler and Donna, God's gift to church secretaries and me. I'm allowed to tell you that. Now I'm going to follow that up because it's really uncomfortable, right? I'm sure you've never gone to church and heard a pastor say, you're required to pay for those who do the gospel because we make our living from the gospel. Here's Pastor Rick's explanation. It's not mine, but this is what he says. He's told me on my first week 20 years ago, he said, Bill, set it in your heart. You're not getting paid to do ministry. No, I mean, you're not doing ministry to get paid. You get paid so you have the time to do the ministry. The reason that you give me the privilege of my salary. Listen, if you want rid of me, all you got to do is vote. If the church chooses to fire me, it's still your call. But I'm going to go down preaching the word without apology. Like I just, I don't know how to back down. I don't get, I'm not preaching because you pay me to. I get the privilege of having the time to study at depth because you offer me a salary that allows me to do that. And Donna and I had this conversation this week because I write my sermons on Mondays. So I run everything through Donna. So here's the other thing. If you ever like a sermon I don't preach, it's Donna's fault because she didn't tell me not to say it. But you still got to pay for it because she's amazing. There's been times, and Donna and I have talked about it, there's been times in ministry where I've had to cut my own salary because the church budget just wasn't there. And guess what? Did I stop doing my best? Did I stop working? No. Donna's been through it. Did we stop giving our all? No. Do we sit here and punch the clock and we check every single minute and every single hour to make, no we don't. You work as hard as you can for as long as you can because God is ultimately worthy of our worship. And for those of us who have to work the gospel, thank you, I appreciate that. For those of us who have to work the gospel, our work is worship. For those of you who work a regular job, no matter what your job is, your giving is an act of worship. And what's funny is your worship then gives Donna and I and Melanie and Tyler and Christina, gives us the ability to have the time to do what's necessary and to do the job. So here is my, and if you want to look on the back of your bulletin, just like with fasting, I'm going to give you the 3 things that I want you to know about Christian giving. 3 things I want you to know. Number 1, we should give to the Lord first every time. First every time. That means every time you get paid, you give to God first. Let that one sink in because that one is usually the one that hurts. Give to God first. Now you decide in your heart or in your marriage or in your family what that is. If you want to go off of percents, I think that's great. I think 10% is a wonderful thing to strive to and then once you've reached it, you keep reaching. There's never a time where God stops being worthy of all that he has given to us. So we just keep going. You should give to the Lord first. Number 2, we should give to the Lord as worship. We should give to the Lord as worship. You should give to the Lord as worship. Not out of compulsion. It's just not your partnership dues for being a part of the church. You're not buying your way into the club. And for real, if you think the amount of money you give has any influence on your relationship with me, I don't know and I will never know. It's another thing that Pastor Rick trained me on very, very early. It's like a bell that you can't unring. If I knew the church's giving record, then you might be tempted to say, well, you know what, I know how much Alex gives and that's why Pastor Bill spends more time talking to Alex. I don't know your giving and I will never know. So I don't care. That's what empowers me to be able to say this stuff and look out and I have no idea. I have no idea which one of you give regularly and I have no idea which one of you skates out the door going, thank you Jesus, I didn't have to give you my money this week. I don't know and guess what, Coach Bill don't care. So we should give to the Lord in worship. Here's your third thing. We should give to the Lord generously. We should give to the Lord generously. When people ask me what's the right way to define Christian giving, I tell them those three things. Christian giving should be prioritized, it's your first thing. Christian giving should be out of an attitude of worship just as much as you love singing, just as much as you love reading the word, just as much as you love prayer. You should love giving. We don't because we live in a very selfish culture. And three, we should be generous. So here's your takeaway. God's design is for his people to be generous in their giving. We give so others' needs can be met. As Christians we are called to prioritize sacrificial giving. How much, that's between you and the Lord. That's between Lord, what do you, how much of what I've been blessed with do I give back to say thank you? And when you finally realize that your paycheck comes from God and not from your work, it'll change your perspective on giving. When you realize the provision that you get comes from the Lord and not from your own hands, just like Adam in the garden. God provided it and that's why Adam worked, not the other way around. God didn't earn, I mean, Adam did not earn God's provision. He was given it. And it's being in the given that you become a steward, not an owner. And then you're responsible for what you've been given.