Welcome to catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being here and worshiping with us this morning here at catalyst We're about one thing and that is loving people to Life change life change in Christ. That's right So if you're here this morning Whether you are physically here in the sanctuary on campus with us or whether you're one of our virtual family members Who's joining us either in real time or after the fact we love you? But we love you enough to tell you the truth, which is I don't want you to remain the same I believe that every single time someone comes to church they can learn something new They can engage with something new and they can grow in their relationship with Christ Now I also have to say that during this series I'm coach bill not pastor bill and there's a very clear reason for that coach bill does not care how you feel about what I'm About to say Pastor bill has to care how you feel pastor bill has to be concerned that you feel And protected and cared for and all these other things coach bill don't care how you feel but I do care how you grow and the higher up you go in levels of Professional athletics which I have zero skill in by the way So chess team not the football team right here full-on geek just love it I am told that the more specialized coaching you have to get as you rise up in skills Well this morning we're going to continue our series entitled better and this morning we're going to be examining how to be a Servant so if you will look on the back of the handout that you received this morning Hopefully on your way in Underneath of the words key thoughts so one two three four fifth line down There's a sentence that I'm gonna read and then I want us to read together This is the measurement of what I submit to you is a Christian disciple so here it is a Disciple is called to be a holy Faithful servant who worships God alone and is active in his community Let's read that together a Disciple is called to be a holy faithful Servant who worships God alone and is active in his community now We've been working through this definition we looked at what is holy last week We looked at what is faithful and this week. We're gonna look at what does it mean to be a Servant now in order just like we've done in previous weeks in order to tell you what is a servant I first need to offer you a quality definition of the word so here's my definition of the word servant a Servant is a person who is obligated to represent or Act in the interest of the authority of another so I'll say that again a Servant is a person who is obligated to represent or act in the interest of the authority of another person and there's two key components of this definition that I offer you the first is that servants have an Obligation to someone else if you are acting in your own interests. That's called selfish not servant Right the just key in on the word servant automatically implies an obligation to another person Generally an authority now you can be a servant of humanity you can be a servant of things But for the most part servants have an obligation to a another party second is the servants under that obligation Act in the interest of that other party, right? So a servant is a person who is obligated to represent or act in the interest of the authority of another person and this word servant in English can mean a couple of different things But all throughout the Old Testament the Hebrew word servant is translated into different words So in order to give you a quality picture of what what does it mean to be a servant biblically? I want us to just we're gonna skate through the Old Testament a little bit and we're gonna look at different verses That have the same word in it, but in English they're translated differently So the first one comes from the book of Genesis chapter 24 the first four verses we're jumping into a story here where Abraham is Speaking to the senior servant Eliezer in his house. So this is Genesis 24 1 through 4 and Abraham was now very old And the Lord blessed him in every way. He said to his Senior servant in his household the one in charge of all that he had put your hand under my thigh Gents we talked about that like last month in men's fraternity I Want you to swear by the Lord the God of heaven and the God of earth? That you will not get a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I am living But will go to my country to my own relatives and get a wife for my son Isaac Now the word senior servant there is the English translation of the Hebrew word servant And again, let's just ask ourselves the two main questions Who is this servant obligated to and what is the action being discussed here in this section? So who is the servant in Genesis 24 to obligated to Abraham? What is the action the servant is performing Going to get a wife does that make sense? So we're gonna we're gonna do this little exercise as we go through here And for those of you who really like terms and you like studying this is called Tick range when you translate when you translate a book they're telling me my collar is in the way. I'm sorry When you translate a word from the ancient Hebrew language into English It can mean a bunch of different things and so we're examining the semantic range of the word servant The first one we saw here is senior servant Genesis 24 now, let's go to Genesis 14 verses 14 and 15 also still in the life of Abraham, but now a totally different thing So this is Genesis 14 starting in verse 14 When Abraham heard that his relative had been taken captive he called out the 100 or the 318 trained men Born in his household and went in pursuit as far as Dan during the night Abraham divided his men to attack them and routed Them pursuing them as far as Hoboth north of Damascus now this one doesn't look really obvious And that's why I wanted to show it to you when we get to verse 15 during the night Abraham divided his men That word men right there in that verse is the same Hebrew word as senior servant from the previous verse So the men that is being described the men that Abraham are using to go rescue Lot are defined as his Servants, so let's ask the questions who are the men in this verse obligated to? Abraham and what is the action that they are performing? They're gonna go rescue lot. So those of you know the story lot is Abrams nephew He's captured they have to send an army to go get him the men who are in his army same Hebrew word as Servant so now we see another group of people under obligation performing in action now We're gonna fast forward all the way to the book of first Samuel in this passage We are jumping into the monarchy period where King Saul is the king of the United Monarchy of Israel King Saul has done some really stupid stuff And God is now rejecting him as king and raising up a new person to be king That person's really famous plays the guitar had a big fight one so here we go first Samuel chapter 16 verse 14 now the spirit of the Lord had departed from Saul and an evil spirit from the Lord tormented him and Saul's Attendance said to him see an evil spirit from God is tormenting you let our Lord command his Servants here to search for someone who can play the liar He will play when the evil when the evil spirit from God comes on you and you will feel better so Saul said to his Attendance find someone who plays well and bring him here to me one of the servants answered I've seen a son of Jesse of Bethlehem who knows how to play the liar. He's brave man and a warrior He speaks well and is a fine-looking man and the Lord is with him So who's the young man who gets brought to Saul? David right and I just need to point out this is why guitar players are better than everyone else because We got called up when it was time for spiritual warfare Sorry, that's for me and Mackenzie shameless guitar player joke got to take it So here I hope you notice that I accented these three words in verse 15. They are called his Attendance same Hebrew word as word servants then in verse 16 They're called his servants and then in verse 17 there again called his attendance But interestingly in verse 18 one of the servants different word because that word specifically refers to a personal male servant Like maybe a butler see butler still someone who serves someone who's obligated performs an action But with a slightly different connotation I butthole the butler's in charge of the kitchen and dining room Anybody who grew up in the 80s got that movie quote if you didn't ask me later The thank you somebody like so in this passage we have three different uses of this Hebrew word 15 16 17 in English It's attendance and it's also servants Who are they under obligation to serve in this passage? King Saul, what is the action they are performing? for King Saul They're going to look for a musician Because everybody knows life is better with guitar players, right? So the action is they are going to seek out a musician and ultimately those of you who really like the story This is how God brings David to the palace and illustrates that he is the rightful person to be there because when God's chosen King is in God's chosen house the Punishment that came on Saul which is the tormenting spirit has to go away and ultimately then David faces Goliath and lots of cool stuff Happens is an epic story Let's go back to the book of Genesis. Here's another word Genesis 41 37 Here we're in the end of the story of end of the book of Genesis We're in the story of Joseph and we're gonna look at King Pharaoh Has to speak to his officials. So the word here is official the plan seemed good to Pharaoh and to all his officials So Pharaoh asked them Can we find anyone like this man in whom is the Spirit of God then Pharaoh said to Joseph? Since God has made all this known to you There is no one so discerning and wise as you you shall be in charge of my palace and my people will submit to your Orders only with respect to the throne will I be greater than you? This is the rise to palace moment in the Joseph story, but I want you to notice verse 37 the word official Also the same Hebrew word as a servant So let's go through our two questions number one who are the officials obligated to serve? Pharaoh and what in this moment are they what is the action they are performing? They brought Joseph to Pharaoh. So you see again, even though I'm using the word official. They're still an obligation. They're still in action The next one is Psalm 18 and Psalm 36. Here's what's interesting. It's not part of the verse It's the title the title of the psalm itself. This is what the title reads for the director of music of David the servant of the Lord Now now I've got two words tied together same Hebrew word as servant But now specifically who is when David is the servant of the Lord who is he under obligation to serve? The Lord God and what is the action that David performed? That he was under obligation to do if he is titled as the author of Psalm 18 and Psalm 36 He wrote he wrote them those you didn't know that King David wrote like about a fifth of the book of Psalms So here now we have someone obligated to serve God the action that they perform is Writing worship music or or writing out things that lead people to worship God The final word if you go to the book of Exodus chapter 13 one more word that the same Hebrew word is translated to and that's slave so Exodus 13 3 Then Moses said to the people Commemorate this day the day you came out of Egypt the land of slavery Because the Lord brought you out of it with a mighty hand eat nothing containing yeast so Moses is speaking to the entire nation of Israelites who have thus just escaped Egypt, but the nation were slaves So who were the Israelites under obligation to serve while they were slaves? Pharaoh and all of Egypt what were the actions the Israelites performed that that denoted that they were slaves Lots of slave labor they built Strix and bra and anybody who's watched the prince of Egypt There's a great musical montage moment there, and they you know build all these things So all of these different words are literally what it means to be a servant You can be a servant you could be a subordinate Abrams senior servant you could be an attendant You could be an official you could be the servant after the servant You could be the servant actual servant of the Lord and you could be a slave all of these words are within the semantic range Of what it means to be a servant But let's be perfectly honest I can't throw out the word slave and slavery and walk away from it because everyone's gonna ask the big question so Those of you don't know me I like questions, and I'd rather stand on it than ignore it and back down from it So let's take a quick pause from our sermon and jump over into an apologetic moment and ask the question Is the bible pro-slavery because it contains the word slave Anybody ever heard that accusation the bible's pro-slavery because it mentioned slavery or i've heard the bible is pro-slavery Because when god laid down the levitical law he didn't outlaw slavery or when jesus preached in the new testament jesus didn't condemn Roman slavery and in fact if you look in the hebrew law there are laws about the purchasing and treatment of slaves Well, then shoot pastor bill your entire bible must be pro-slavery, which is why I can't believe it So let's let's take this accusation seriously is the bible pro-slavery because it contains laws regulating slavery so first Obvious answer number one the bible does in fact contain old testament passages regulating the purchase and treatment of human people It does i'm not going to back down from that. That's a true statement. However A second statement both the old testament and new testament do not call for the end of slavery. That is also a true statement however slavery existed Before the bible was written so the bible did not create slavery So this is super important to understanding How do I get the bible and slavery as a thing because when we as americans living today when we say the word slavery our brain immediately associates it with United states anti-bellum chattel slavery, right? That's our uh in our living memory. That's our cultural context for the word slavery That is not the cultural context of the old testament nor the new testament The old testament happened thousands of years before the roman empire and the new new testament happened during the roman empire So the since the bible did not create slavery However, it does does add controls to slavery. Let me ask you this those of you who are parents This is a rhetorical question, but if you're next to your kid, you can totally elbow them Um, do your parents or do your children always do everything that you want them to do? Right anybody who's a parent knows that's not the case there are times where your children do things that you don't want them to do And you have to then Mop up the details or fix the problem. So here's the problem Did god ever design one human to own another human 100%? No, absolutely not Every human being is made in the image of god. Every human being is an image bearer But humanity steps outside of god's plans and then god's got to come in and put some controls on it So here's what you may not know the bible does in fact contain passages regulating slavery But the only right way to determine the value of those passages is to measure it against the slavery that existed at the time the laws were given not Antebellum slavery in the recent past of our country. So let's compare What does the bible say about slavery in comparison to old testament slavery? And here's what I can tell you the bible adds protections for slaves For owned persons now also I need to keep in mind that word slave can also be servant attendant official senior servant Right, that's all the same word But the bible adds protections that no society Has ever had that has slavery and i'll just give you a few number one Slaves were freed every six years Every year when you got around to the to the year of jubilee All slaves were free because the word slave can also mean indentured servant, which is sort of a modern-day term Connor i'm totally out of money. Your family is like totally wealthy, right? So i'm out of money. I'm gonna sell myself to you for three years I'm gonna come work with you and and nana's back field and and we're gonna make some pasta We're gonna have some great time and then after those three years my debt is paid. I'm back to being a free person That's indentured servitude. That's a large part of the laws that exist in the old testament. However even when Servants were not released from their debt. The old testament law has laws about Slaves can marry into the family and then become full legitimate heirs and family members The old testament has laws protecting the use of physical force in the punishment of slaves Though it has laws protect. Did you know in the old testament slaves can own other slaves? How does one servant own another servant because of this indentured servitude stacking method? So does the bible contain laws about slavery? Yes, does the bible offer freedoms and protections in a way that no other ancient or modern society has ever done for people who serve other people Yes So did the bible create slavery? No, but does it put controls and regulations on slavery in order to ensure that all human beings are treated with the appropriate dignity? Because all human beings are made in the image of god Yes That's the official answer Also When jesus comes in the new testament jesus did not come to create a political kingdom in that day and age So the reason that what people want to ask me Well, why did jesus not stand up to the romans because that wasn't his goal at that point now? We're studying revelation, right? There's coming a time where he is going to come back and install actual regulations and lead an actual kingdom on the actual earth But we're going to get there when we're done here. So does everybody understand that? That's my brief explanation of is the bible pro-slavery because I can't say the word slave and not deal with it So there you go. God never intended one human being to own another but after we sinfully decided to do this God institutes protections to guard the human dignity of each and every individual who bears his image This sets the bible's description of slavery apart from all other forms of slavery both ancient and modern All right. So now I've given you the semantic range of the word servant. We've looked at a bunch of different passages that how servant is used Now I want to show you six different ways that jesus describes his Servants so whilst we could argue that everything I just gave you is somewhat academic in nature I wanted you to see the scope of what it means to be a servant. This next part is not academic. This is jesus himself Describing what his servants which is you and I are like So first we're going to go to matthew chapter 18 in verse 21 Jesus expects his servants To forgive other people here's 21 Then peter came to jesus and asked the lord lord How many times I got to forgive my brother or sister who sins against me? I love peter. I love this question Peter is like the adhd disciple. He's like god for real. This guy's getting on my nerves How many times I got to forgive this man? Up to seven times jesus answered. I tell you not seven times but 77 times Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like I love it when jesus says this Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants as he began the settlement a man Who owed him 10,000 bags of gold was brought to him since he was not able to pay the master ordered that he and his wife And his children and all that he had be sold to repay the debt At this the servant fell on his knees before him be patient with me. He begged and I will pay back everything The servant's master took pity on him and canceled the debt and let him go But when the servant went out he found one of his fellow servants who owed him 100 silver coins And he grabbed him and began to choke him pay back what you owe me He demanded the fellow servant fell on his knees and begged him be patient with me and I will pay it back but he refused Instead he went off and had the man thrown into prison until he could pay the debt The debt when the other servants saw what had happened they were outraged and they went and told their master everything that had happened When the master called the servant in you wicked servant, he said I canceled all that debt of yours because you begged me to Shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servant just as I had on you? And in his anger the master had him handed over to the jailers to be tortured until he should pay back all that he owed This is how my heavenly father will treat each of you unless you forgive your brother and sister from your heart I could probably just like stop that's a sermon in and of itself, but I want you to see the first thing That jesus expects of his servants is that we are a people of forgiveness So i'll say it another way if you are a christian If you truly Can say in your heart? Jesus is not just my savior, but my king There is no room left in a christian world view for holding a grudge There's no room left in a christian world view for holding on to that unforgiveness and i'll and Here's one that's not in my notes, but i'll just give it to you as a sideline Do you know what unforgiveness does? You know unforgiveness really is When you have someone in your life who's wronged you who's done something to you and you hold on to that wrong And you hold on to that hurt because they need to answer for what they done did me You're drinking poison every day, but expecting it to hurt them That is what unforgiveness does to your heart it makes you cold it makes you bitter it makes you untrusting of future relationships it makes you judgy and all these evil things because You not forgiving someone doesn't hurt them It hurts you So whether you want to be selfish and just stop drinking poison or whether you actually want to be obedient listen to jesus Either way jesus expects the first thing you need to see jesus expects his servants to forgive Secondly jesus expects or his servants expect his return matthew 24 There's a lot of passages i'm not expecting you to go to them all i just want to show you that i didn't make any of this up so Matthew 24 verse 43 But understand this this is giving another analogy here if the owner of house had known at what time at night the thief was coming He would have kept watch and would not have let his house be broken into So you must always be ready because the son of man will come at an hour when you do not expect him This is jesus talking about his own return will come back at an hour. You do not expect him Who then is the faithful and wife servant whom the master has put in charge of the servants in his household to give them Food at the proper time it will be good for that servant whose master finds him doing so when he returns Truly, I tell you he will put him in charge of all his possessions But suppose that servant is wicked and says to himself My master's gonna stay away for like a long time And he begins to treat invigens to beat his fellow servants and to eat and drink with drunkards When the master of that servant will come along on a day when he does not expect him at an hour He is not aware of He will cut him to pieces and assign him a place with the hypocrites and there there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth Jesus is talking about what's called the eminent return of christ He is saying if you are my servant You are going to be ready for me to return because you're not going to know when When even when the disciples asked him jesus, are you now going to restore the kingdom of israel? He told him he said no the only person who knows that time is the father in heaven He has picked a specific time. Keep in mind. Jesus is saying this 1,000 like 900 and I don't know 94 95 years ago because he's saying this before his resurrection If you are a christian if you are a servant of god if christ is both your savior and your king And your life is not changed by the eminent return of christ we got a problem Either a you do not believe that jesus is actually coming back Which is a possibility some people just think the return of christ is an idea or a myth Or maybe you actually are a christian you've placed your faith in him But his return doesn't bother you To me, that's the bigger problem, right over here. I could just say that's an intellectual issue You know, you're not convinced that jesus either was a real historical figure or that his resurrection was real or that he's not god That all happens over here over here. This is a hard issue We as christians should be motivated By the return of the king because when he returns he's going to take stock of what everybody been doing And here's the fun thing about god you can never escape his gaze So he's got a book and he's written down everything that you and I have ever done and his servant's going to come back And he's like, all right bill Yeah, you know what i'm talking about. Uh-huh. Mm-hmm. Yeah How about that? I don't know about you, but I have no idea when christ is going to return He could return by the end of lunchtime today or he could delay another 2 000 years Ultimately, though, is that really the right question to ask? The better question is what are you and I doing until his return because that's what we get measured against So christians have to forgive christians have to expect his return third his servants expect to steward his resources Matthew 25 Again, this is kingdom of god will be like a man going on a journey To you know, Jesus keeps talking about he's away for a time going on a journey who called his servants and entrusted his wealth to them To one he gave five bags of gold to another two and to another one bag each according to his ability Most important part of that sentence each according to his ability Then he went on his journey the man who would receive five bags of gold went put his money to work and gained five more Also the one with two bags gained two more but the man who would receive one bag went off dug a hole in the ground And hid his master's money After a long time the master Of the serve of those servants returned to settle accounts what what you've been done with what I left you The man who had received five bags of gold brought the other five master you entrusted me with five See, I have gained you five more his master replied well done My good and faithful servant you have been faithful with a few things I will put you in charge of many come and share in your master's happiness Verse 22 the man with two bags of gold also came master you entrusted me with two bags of gold See, I have gained two more his master replied well done my good and faithful servant You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many come and share in your master's happiness Then the man who received one bag of gold master I knew you are a hard man harvesting where you have not sown and gathering where you have not scattered seed So I was afraid and I went out and hid your gold in the ground. See here is what belongs to you His master replied You wicked and lazy servant So you knew That I harvest where I had not sown and I gather where I had not scattered seeds Well, then you should have put my money on deposit with the bankers. So when I returned I would have at least received back interest So take the bag of gold from him give it to the one who has 10 For whoever has will be given more what they will have in abundance But over does not have even what they have will be taken from them And throw that worthless servant outside into darkness where they'll be weeping and gnashing of teeth Many of you have heard this called the parable of the talents that's I didn't use that that one's from luke. I didn't use the word talent because of its english connotation of talent I use the one about bags of gold because it's specifically about monetary resources I love at the beginning of this The mass so keep in mind who's the one who chose which servant got which amount of money? The master did before he left the master assigned Different different amounts of resources to different servants based on his knowledge of who they are that's why as a pastor it's It's challenging sometimes to be jealous of pastors who have churches that are bigger than yours, right? Just as i'm sure if you're a business owner You can be jealous of somebody who has a business larger than yours or you know somebody who has more than you have And this parable always reminds me like I don't i'm not responsible for that Like i'm responsible for what he's given me and since i'm not responsible for what he gave that other guy I probably just don't need to have a comment because that's he's not my servant He's my boss's servant and so I need to answer to my boss for what he gave me But clearly the point jesus is making and I could unwind a whole lot about this particular story I'm not going to because the whole sermon is not on giving but I need you to understand two basic things number one The sermon is about money this particular message is about the use of stewarding of resources Money as well as assets things Objects things we use to get stuff done and number two Jesus in the story is the master and we are the servants the master has an expectation that we use well what we were given How we use it that's that's allowed to be in our creativity Notice that jesus didn't go in all about where the guy with five went and did his work Where the guy with two went and did his work just that they used what they were given they worked it and they brought back a return Not for themselves, but for the master so a servant expects a stewarding of his resources next He expects his servants should expect to serve others mark chapter 10 Jesus called them together You know those who are regarded as rulers of the gentiles lord it over them as their high officials exercise authority over them But not so with you Instead whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant And whoever wants to be first must be a slave of all why? Verse 45 for the son of man did not come to be served but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many Here jesus is speaking to you and I is well his original new testament audience and then threw it to you and I and he's saying Listen being a follower of mine Entails being a servant of humans There's no position in the kingdom where everybody else serves me. Do you know why? Because that's his job Like doesn't it make sense every king only has one or every kingdom has a king doesn't have 30 kings or queens There's a king And it's his kingdom and it's not my kingdom, which means it's not my job to be served And especially if the king calls himself a servant Then none of us have an excuse Like if i'm his servant and he says he's also a servant guess what everybody's a servant Let's just get let's just put on our work boots grab your decades and let's get to work Because all of us if the king calls himself a servant and that's why I love this particular passage He says um, jesus did not or the son of man did not come to Be served but to serve If you're a christian you should expect To invest part of your life in serving others. That's just the way it goes If you've never heard that before in church, I apologize. That's why i'm trying to systematize all these things together um his servants should expect to be with him john 12 Very truly I tell you unless a kernel of wheat falls to the ground and dies. It remains only a single seed But if it dies it produces many seeds Anyone who loves their life will lose it while anyone who hates their life in this world will keep it for eternal life Whoever serves me must follow me and where I am my servant will be also My father will honor the one who serves me believe it or not in this verse. Jesus is talking about them being with him in the resurrection Not just being with him where he is on earth Verse 25 anyone who loves their life will lose it While anyone who hates their life meaning loves it less than not hate in the way we use it loves their life less than in this world Will keep it for eternal life. Jesus is giving his servants the promise That if you put me first in this life You will be with me in the next life Christians should have an expectation that we will face Jesus again that we will live with him in the next life That's part of being a christian His servants should expect to face difficulty. Here's where we're going to bring it in John 15 starting in verse 18 This is Jesus speaking it didn't make this up if the world hates you keep in mind it hated me first Like somebody we should just get that on a nice big blaze sign if the world hates you keep in mind It hated me first if you belong to the world It would love you as its own As it is you do not belong to the world, but I have chosen you Out of the world and that is why the world hates you Remember what I told you a servant is not greater than his master if they persecuted me They will persecute you also If they obeyed my teaching they will obey yours also The final thing that Jesus says to his servants is we should expect to face difficulty We should expect to face persecution now Here in america, we do not experience religious persecution in the way that other christians have throughout church history And even the way other christians experience today So a lot of people when we talk about the idea of persecution Uh and and the the american christian church a lot of people like to look at us You know the church abroad not the church in america But the church abroad wants to look at america and say well the american church is weak It's it's big and fat and happy did you know like 87 percent of the worldwide christian funds come from america But did you know that more nations are starting to send missionaries Into our country to reach the people who live here It used to be at one point that the west sent missionaries out to the east and to africa and to developing nations And we still do do that. But what's funny is you now have missionaries coming from india Coming from africa and moving into the us to try to cultivate disciples in america I don't think the american church is weak. I don't I think the american church is fighting a battle that it doesn't know it's fighting And so here's here's how I want to bring this in for a close I do want you to expect difficulty Because jesus said so and if jesus said so i'm pretty sure I can count on it Like I know that's like super simple logic, but for me it's never gone wrong alex if jesus said so we can count on it And that sounds good to me But I don't think The difficulty we face is the same as the difficulty that our chinese brothers and sisters face or the difficulty that christians faced under The nazi regime or the difficulty that christians face in southern and western africa Where people literally are kicking in the doors with firearms and shooting christians. We don't face that we face a much more What's the word I want here insidious We face a much more shadowy kind of battle And I can put a single word on it The word that I believe the american church is facing that we don't know how to deal with Is apathy our country Doesn't know want Doesn't know starvation doesn't know Massive political upheaval like other countries of our world do We are so comfy That you can door dash taco bell because there's too much snow outside Right This is the company. This is the country we live in I'm going to do it again There's too much snow outside. I still need a starbucks I am going to door dash a starbucks to my front door So that I can look at the snow and still drink my latte, but not have to drive in it We have a wonderful blessing For the amount of things we have in this country But we are in it We don't live like we're out of it We the american christian the american church is fighting a world view battle not a government battle, right? We're not fighting People with guns and a government closing and literally tearing down church buildings that happens in other countries. It doesn't happen here You know what? We're fighting. We're fighting a cultural world view battle that's tearing the christian world view down from the inside out What's worse is this? If if my generation i'll just i'll just say so I was born in the 80s So i'm like the the very end of the gen x generation Um The boomer generation is the one that's before me. So that's my parents generation. So if you were born, uh, 46 to 64, I think it is 46 to 64 somewhere in that range. Um, or and then you could be born in 64 all the way to 82 that's gen x which is where I was born in Starting in my parents generation we started Losing each generation passing down a christian world view from parents child from parents child from parents child So starting in the boomer generation, we got really really busy We got we got earning lots of money the housing market soared the economy soared and parents Um largely left. I mean like I was a product of the public school system for years Most of my morality I learned in the public elementary system. That's not good or bad. That's just true And then when my generation became parents we were striving to have all that my parents had right? So the classic gen xer problem if you're a gen xer is you wanted your first house to look like your parents third house Because you never saw their first two houses Right. So that's the gen x problem is we want all that our parents had but not having to put the work in to get it Because we were born later in the process. So that's the gen x problem So then gen xers we put all of our effort into working so that I can have what my parents I want what my parents had Right. And so now we're not passing down our worldview and our ethics and our christian morality to My children's generation. So gen x skip over gen y My children are the end of gen z And now gen z is coming up in a completely pluralistic america where christianity and islam and buddhism and bahaiism and atheism they're all equals because Starting back in the boomer generation. We stopped handing it down I think really the greatest generation handing it to the boomers was the last generation who really Discipled their children well, and this is not an attack at parents because i'm in this system. I lived as part of this So now here's the america we live in when you step outside the doors of the doors of this building and you walk off The parking lot christianity is no better or no worse than any other worldview Atheism buddhism bahaiism islam and some people will say that everybody worships the same god. It's just all roads leading to the same place Yeah, thank you liz for the eyebrow movement because that doesn't make sense But if you didn't know anything about the other world religions like that accusation is so ridiculous and so I think we need to expect difficulty But the difficulty we need to expect is in the realm of ideas It's not in the realm of machine guns and bombs and bulldozers rolling down our churches. You know, what's worse? If we don't pass on christian ideas to the next generation You won't have to bulldoze down the building. There'll be no one here And that is why more churches are closing in america every day Than ever in the history of our country More churches if you look at what happened in western europe In britain france germany denmark holland old beautiful pristine churches Are being turned into nightclubs hotels bnbs why? Because they're Right claude, right, you know, it's a very very very Great claude, right, you know exactly what i'm talking about. They're just about 30 to 40 years ahead of us in the cycle We have to stem this tide We have to change this difficulty We have to accept the reality that we live in a world where we have to fight with our ideas And that christianity is true. There really is a god jesus really did rise and it's worth talking about with our children and in the marketplace Or this building is just going to be empty later 30 40 years from now when My generation when gen x are the great grandparents Which used to feel a lot farther than it was Like i'm just saying all of a sudden you wake up and you're like, how did I get so old goodness gracious? right when my generation Right when you start hearing like vanilla ice and mc hammer played in the retirement villages Right when m&m is blasting in the 55 plus communities You're gonna know Hopefully there's still people here Right, hopefully there's still people here because a few people stood up and said, you know what i'm going to be a servant of jesus I'm going to forgive people i'm going to represent my king I'm going to put in the work. I'm going to be a good steward of my time I'm going to expect to face difficulties because here in this place. I have a king and here's here's a true story I have a king who's been on the throne since the beginning of eternity Jesus didn't become king when he became incarnate and he rose again. He started his god who created the world His kingdom has been here since genesis 1 1 And it will be and that's that's when we get back to revelation. He's coming back To reestablish a kingdom. The only question that is relevant for you and I today is what does our servant hood look like? The only question that we should be asking ourselves is if jesus comes back tomorrow And he's got to give you a gpa for your servant hood You're gonna be on the honor roll Or you're gonna be in detention I don't I to be perfectly honest with you. I really don't know where i'm gonna land on that Like just be just just being just being real right like this coach bill not pastor bill I don't gotta care if you like me or not Um, because here's why I would say I don't know where I'm at. I don't know how many opportunities that god put in my path that I missed Like I strive now to look for him Sometimes it drives my wife crazy because i'll be I start up a conversation with anybody We're gonna be checking out at walgreens and i'm gonna do my best to have a conversation that could later lead to jesus We're gonna be walking through the barnes and noble while we're out of town on vacation And I always walk down the bible aisle just because I want to see who's there and we were in the middle of georgia Why were we in georgia? Oh, we're visiting your father. That's right He lives in georgia He's never gonna watch this online. It's fine We're in the middle of georgia and I walked down the bible aisle in a barnes and noble and there's two young men Embroiled in a very interesting conversation about which translation of the bible that they should buy for this one young man's girlfriend Who just became a christian and neither one of them really understood all the differences between bible translation So of course here comes pastor bill And i'm like hey guys, I could teach this to you like 20 minutes. Let's get a coffee And and I have this conversation I look up and my wife is seated over here already got a drink from the little cafe area half gone You done are we good I'm always looking for those opportunities, but there was a time in my life where I wasn't There was a time in my life where I wasn't cognizant that god might be putting people in my path For me to be a servant for him. What's a servant someone who's obligated? who acts And represents them rather than me You