Welcome to Catalyst. Pastor Bill just left. Coach Bill is now here. So for those of you who are joining us for the first time or maybe your second time, my name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here at our church. But this morning I want to put my Pastor Bill hat down and I want to put my Coach Bill hat on. And the reason for that is, is throughout this series which we titled Better, I am trying to help you become better Christians. And often like a coach would do, I am more concerned with your performance than your feelings. So Coach Bill is here for the first series of the year to help us get in gear. That was not meant to rhyme, but it does Jen, so there you go, you're happy. My job is to engage and inspire and at times motivate you sternly. Not meanly, but sternly. And the reason that I put some of this workout equipment up here was to illustrate a simple point. If I told you that I spent all year last year going to the gym and working hard and doing all these exercises and things and I was faithful and you saw my selfies and I shared social posts from the gym, but there was no transformation in my life, no body composition change, no nutrition change, no health metric change. You would assume I am doing the gym wrong. Maybe I just went and took the selfie there to look cute at the gym, but didn't actually put in the work. Why? Because if I did the gym right, I would change. I submit to you this morning, if you do church right, you would change. If you sit there week after week after week and you do not change, then we have to ask why that is. Because I think being in the presence of God transforms our lives. Yes? One of the ways that we are transformed is by studying his word together. So let me give you the key thought that is going to collect this group of messages together. I am going to read it once and then if you look on the back of the handout that you were given, it is printed right there. We are all going to read it together. It is also on the screen. So here it is. A disciple is called to be a holy, faithful servant who worships God alone and is active in his community. So I want us to all read that together. Here we go. One, two, three. A disciple is called to be a holy, faithful servant who worships God alone and is active in his community. This is the definition that I put before you that we must all hold ourselves to. This is what I hold myself to. This is what I hold my children to. And this is what I hold community to. Now last week we kicked off this series by looking at what is holy and what it means to be holy. It means to be set apart from a group for a purpose. If you did not get a chance to see that message, it is on YouTube, it is on Facebook, and it is on our church website. But this morning we are going to talk about faithfulness. And this one is a little bit of a challenging word, especially when we talk about it in church, because there is this common idea or this common misconception that faith is belief without any evidence. Every time I am talking to my atheist friends, that is what they all want to tell me. Well, you just have faith. You do not actually have reasons. And I am like, no, that is not how that works. Faith is we have reasons to believe things and then we place our faith in them. But that is not the kind of faith. I want to talk about the overall definition of faith throughout all of the Bible. And so I want to offer you a definition of faithful, and then I want to show you where that definition is in multiple places in the Bible. So here you go. Here is your definition of faithful. To be faithful is to have an unwavering allegiance and devotion. To be faithful is to have unwavering allegiance and devotion. So just like the definition of holiness had two halves to it, set apart from and set apart for, I think the definition of faithfulness has two key elements in it. The first is allegiance and the second is devotion. So when I am allegiance to something, I am allegiance in my activities, in the way I live. You know, he was super allegiance, right? If you say someone is faithful to the cause, what does that mean? That means that they did not waver from their allegiance to the cause. When we talk about faithfulness in marriage, so and so was a faithful spouse, or so and so was not a faithful spouse. We immediately and indigatively include allegiance in that word faithfulness. But then there's also an aspect of devotion, that I am devoted to this thing, right? Someone who is super allegiance to a cause, whether that be a godly cause or an ungodly cause. You see their devotion played out not just in their actions, but in their heart. So this is the two-fold definition of faithfulness we're going to work with this morning. To be faithful is to have an unwavering allegiance and devotion. And the first place that we need to define and witness faithfulness is with God himself. Faithfulness in a Christian worldview starts with God. I probably, Alex could probably say that almost everything in a Christian worldview starts with God. But I just want to show you a few key passages that illustrate God's faithfulness. Because he is our example, and ultimately I think I would submit to you our faithfulness is in response to his. Our faithfulness doesn't make him faithful. His faithfulness calls us to be faithful. So take a look at the book of Psalms 33 verse 4. Here's the first one. For the word of the Lord is right and true. He is faithful in all he does. Now if that did not describe, do me a favor, just leave that up there for just a minute. Let's just look at this. For the word of the Lord, what does it mean when the Lord is in all capital letters? That tells us in our English translation that's Yahweh, the covenant name of God. The word of the covenant-making God is right and true. Stop. Does that mean there's ever a time where God is wrong and false? No there's not. He is the standard of goodness, of righteousness, of truth. There's never a time where God is not those things. That's the foundation of God in a Christian worldview. So he is faithful in all he does. What does that mean? His actions are a direct result of his righteousness and his truth. Now I would say that God is the only being in all of creation who is fully allegiant to his own standard. Because he is the epitome of goodness. He is the epitome of righteousness. He is the epitome of knowledge. He is the epitome of power. All those fun omni words that we learn in theology class. Omnipresent, omniscient, omnibenevolent. He is all those things. And since he cannot be not those things. That sounds like a really bad word in English. Since he cannot be the epitome of goodness. He cannot be the epitome of righteousness. That's why we can know he's faithful in all he does. But notice that even when we talk about God, we're seeing God's faithfulness in his righteousness and his truth. And his faithfulness is played out in his actions. See that in all he does. His faithfulness is witnessed through his activity. Let me show you another one. Deuteronomy chapter 7 verse 9. Deuteronomy 7, 9. Know therefore that the Lord, see there's again Yahweh, the covenant God. Your God is God. He is the faithful God. Keeping his covenant of love to a thousand generations of those who love him and keep his commandments. So go back to the beginning of verse 9. Know therefore that the Lord, covenant making God of Israel, the Lord your God is God. He is the faithful God. And how do I know that he is the faithful God? Look at keeping his covenant of love to a thousand generations, to those who love him and keep his commandments. Now what's really important about that verse here in Deuteronomy chapter 7 is when we talk about the big Bible story, where the book of Deuteronomy fits in the overarching big Bible story. So in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Then he makes a garden at Eden and he places in that garden Adam and Eve. Then sin happens, we're ejected from the garden. God sends a flood and he has a dude named blank build a boat. The guy's name is Noah. Then he builds a boat. Then later after humanity restarts, God chooses a very specific man and makes a covenant with him to begin the nation of Israel. That man's name is Abram. Turns to Abraham. Abraham to Isaac. Isaac to Jacob. Jacob to his 12 sons. They move into Egypt. That's the end of the book of Genesis. In the beginning of the book of Exodus, they're now in slavery. They ask for a redeemer and God sends them a man named Moses and his brother is Aaron. And they're super-sacrificed. And his brother is Aaron and their sister is Miriam Goldstar. God sends Moses and Aaron and Miriam. They redeem. They come out and unfortunately, I'd love to tell you that they were all perfectly obedient. And everyone just served God and we all lived happily ever after. But that's not what the Bible says. They had an obedience problem and they wandered for 40 years in the wilderness while the disobedient generation died off. And then comes the book of Deuteronomy. The book of Deuteronomy literally means the second law. It's the second time God has to tell his people, this is how thou shalt live. Because the first time in Exodus and Leviticus was given to the unfaithful generation who died off. When you get to Deuteronomy, God is repeating his law to his people saying, If you will just obey me, you will be blessed. And you will live in the land that I promised. And you will have all these things. Why? Because I will bless your obedience. Now, if God were not faithful, how could you trust him? You ever think about that? Faithfulness has to start with a God who is fully and ultimately reliable or he is not trustworthy in the first place. The end of this verse right here, it says, For he is God, he is the faithful God, keeping his covenant of love to a thousand generations. If God were not faithful, you could not trust him to keep his covenant. This right here, the second law given in Deuteronomy 7, specifically says that God is so faithful. God is so true that he will keep his covenant of love with his people for a thousand generations. Why? Because he is the faithful God. But maybe it was just for the beginning of the Israelites, right? Maybe that's all it was. Now fast forward to the book of Isaiah 25 verse 1. Here's Isaiah 25. This is after they've moved in. This is after the kingdoms have split. Isaiah, Lord, covenant God again, you are my God. I will exalt you and praise your name. For in perfect faithfulness, you have done wonderful things, things planned long ago. You see again, here's the third verse. And listen, when I looked up the word faithful in the Bible, there's a whole lot more than I used right here. I only gave you three. That's just because I figured everybody eventually wants to get their Taco Bell for lunch. So we don't need to look at a million verses. But do you notice how in all three of these verses, God's activity is inextricably linked to his faithfulness. How do we know God is faithful? Because he shows it through his actions. He shows it through his activity. Here in 25, now we're talking about the fact that God's faithfulness is perfect. And that he does wonderful things that he promised a long time ago to do. And he fulfills his word a long time later by doing those very things. So have I correctly established that the way we see God's faithfulness is in his untiring truthfulness to his actions? Can we all accept that premise? All right, so here we go. So again, here's your definition. To be faithful is to have unwavering allegiance and devotion. So now that we've seen faithfulness in the character of God, now let's move down a peg. Let's look at faithfulness in a few individuals throughout scripture. There's a lot of examples here, but I just picked a few. Let's go back to the book of Genesis, Genesis chapter six, verse nine. This is the very beginning of the Noah story. It says, this is the account of Noah and his family. Noah was a righteous man, blameless among the people of his time. And he walked faithfully with God. Notice again, now we're talking about a human. We're not talking about God. But here in the way the Noah story begins, in the description of who Noah is, he's a righteous man. He is blameless among the people of his time, and he walked faithfully with God. What does it mean to walk faithfully? It means to walk in unwavering allegiance and devotion with God. And Noah, I mean, also one could argue from our definition of holiness from last week. Noah is also holy in this passage. Because why? Because he is set apart from the people of his time for the purpose of God. So not only is Noah faithful because it says so, the implication is Noah is also being holy because he's following God instead of following culture. He's set apart for God instead of just tied in with the rest of humanity of his day. But notice that the word faithful in this verse also is used to describe an activity or an action. It's not just I am faithful by doing nothing. No, he walked faithfully with God. And I would almost suggest to you that the result of him walking faithfully is the righteousness, the blameless, and the difference from all the people he's with. All right, now let's take a look. We're going to fast forward a little bit. Genesis 17, now let's look at Abraham. Here's another example of a human being described as faithful. This is chapter 17, verse 1. And Abraham said to him, But before me faithfully and blameless, then I will make my covenant between me and you and will greatly increase your numbers. And Abraham fell face down and God said to him, As for me, this is my covenant with you, you will be the father of many nations. No longer will you be called Abram. Your name will be Abraham, for I have made you the father of many nations. included two through five is I wanted you to see God's response to Abram. It's God who calls Abram and again this is another example of Abram wasn't really doing anything to merit or earn God calling him. God went hey Abram leave the land I will show you move or the Chaldeans I'm just gonna I'm gonna show you a brand new land I'm gonna make you into a people. Now Abram still had to follow and obey go to the land I will show you which means he had to leave before he knew where he was going. When we get to 17 God speaks to him again I am God Almighty walk before me faithfully. The same word. How does God tell Abram to walk before him? With unwavering allegiance and devotion and what does Abram get? He gets to be the father of many nations. In fact that's what when you change Abram into Abraham it means to be the father of many. So not only is Noah faithful and allegiance Abram is called by God to be faithful and allegiance but let's just skip to the New Testament maybe build pastor bills using too many examples from the Old Testament let's go to the New Testament the book of Matthew chapter 8. Here's a totally different person who's going to be called by God as faithful Matthew chapter 8 I'll read it verse 5 when Jesus had entered Capernaum a centurion came to him asking for help Lord he said my servant lies at home paralyzed suffering terribly Jesus said to him shall I come and heal him and the centurion replied Lord I don't deserve to have you come under my roof but say the word and my servant will be healed for I myself am a man under authority with soldiers under me I tell this one go and he goes and I tell that one come and he comes I say to my servant do this and he does it when Jesus heard this he was amazed and said to those following him truly I tell you I have not found anyone in Israel with such great faith what made the and keep in mind this isn't even a Jewish person the Roman centurion is a Greek he's a Gentile but his experience in the Roman military had him understand authority and allegiance in a very specific way that when you get a direction or a command from someone who is higher ranking than you it's not a request it's not a suggestion it's not all I'm sorry you know Alex if you could get around to it could you do no it's somebody in authority giving you a directive and that authority automatically comes with my allegiance I gotta go do what you say this is the Roman century and understanding of Jesus the only thing that's implicit in this verse and not explicit is the fact that because of the example the centurion uses when he says I tell my servant to do this and he does it the centurion is expressing faith in the authority of Jesus that Jesus doesn't have to go to his house like Lord and here's another thing why is the Roman centurion not worthy of having Jesus come under his roof well without unpacking a whole ton of it the centurion's house would have been a Gentile house if a Jew walks into a Gentile house what happens to him he becomes ceremonially unclean what the what the Roman centurion is telling Jesus he's like whoa whoa whoa I am not worth enough for you to risk violating all you got to do is say the word man you give the order from here and I know and believe that it will be followed out out there why because you have the authority over sickness in the same way that my commanders have authority over me and I have authority over my servants we're good all you got to do all you got to do is say the word man the understanding of authority and allegiance that this Roman centurion uses Jesus couldn't find in all of Israel in his day I love this story specifically because the guy's not a Jew he's just a Roman soldier but his understanding that when one in authority gives a directive those who are under him are automatically allegiance there's no there's no options is wildly effective and that's why Jesus says I have found no one in Israel with such great faith so let me give you your definition there's one thing you're gonna get it's the definition of faithfulness from today's message to be faithful is to have unwavering allegiance and devotion so now we've looked at faithfulness in God's character now we've looked at faithfulness in three different human characters now let's look at faithful calling in all of the people of God so now we're going from individual to corporate we go back to the book of Deuteronomy chapter 11 verse 13 so if you faithfully obey the commands I am giving you today keep in mind this is in the plural right because Deuteronomy second law it's being given to the whole nation so the you here are not individual you this is the y'all right for those who spent any time south at a Mason Dixon line so if y'all faithfully obey the commands I am giving y'all today to love the Lord your God and serve him with all your heart and with all your soul what is he saying you have to put me first my people who are called by my name should be allegiance to me I can fast-forward to Joshua 24 14 when they're moving into the land now fear the Lord and serve him with all faithfulness throw away the gods of your ancestors worship beyond the Euphrates River and in Egypt and serve the Lord now here's interesting the people of God are to be allegiant to the person of God before all other gods right so now when we talk about unwavering allegiance we are not just talking about it in the individual sense that I am supposed to be unwaveringly allegiance to God and Dan is supposed to be unwaveringly allegiance to God and I could go down the line with each one of us now we're saying corporately as the community of God's people God's people are to be unwaveringly allegiance to him and let go of all those other gods the ones from the other side of the Euphrates and the ones from Egypt now this doesn't really ring I think as true as it should in our modern-day ears because we no longer live in a polytheistic society what that means is we don't live in a society like the ancient Greek and the ancient Romans where they had the God of water and the God of thunder and the God of this and the God of that and they called them that they personified these different parts of nature as different gods and then worship them as such we don't live in a culture like that today so when we read a passage that says throw away the gods of your aunt that your ancestors worshiped sometimes it can like it can it can either fall flat and be like well yeah of course I don't do that or you can just skip it all together and you think well yeah America we don't we don't have like a God of America so I guess that must not apply to me and you skip right over it but if you go back to that passage and we insert the idea of being allegiant I submit to you that there are plenty of gods in the American pantheon I submit to you that there are plenty of things that our culture gives its primary allegiance to and its primary devotion to we may not personify it in the shape of a idol you know we don't fashion an idol but I can think of tons of people who live their lives centered around money and the accumulation of money and what money brings I can think of people who center their lives around personal pleasure and the idea of this actually called hedonism that's a worldview that whatever is good is what makes me feel good and what's bad makes me feel bad so I'm basically making the idol of my life my personal feelings or my personal pleasure so whilst we don't call those gods here's what I will tell you my definition this is this is not my notes so those of you on the screen Eric just take five this isn't in the notes here's my definition of idolatry this is this is one I've worked on for a while my definition of idolatry is anything that I give primary allegiance to and how do I measure that primary allegiance I measure it in three key things do I use that thing to make decisions do I use do I give money to the causes of that thing and do I measure myself and others by that thing so let's take money as an example do I use the accumulation of money to make my decisions sometimes if I'm gonna plan a vacation and I'm gonna take my kids on vacation I might need to make sure I have enough money but do I live my life centered on the accumulation of money number two do I spend my time and my money accumulating money and number three do I measure myself and others by how much money they have if you do those three things I submit to you that is an idol in your life you've made it a little God now we don't think about it that way we don't think about idolatry the same way they thought about it in the first century because they had temples built with actual gold statues that they actually gave money and time and measured themselves against we don't have that anymore the American pantheon of idols is in here and in here do I center my life my decisions my time my money and most of all do I measure other people and myself at a certain standard if you can say yes to those three questions about anything in your life I would be very cautious you might have made an idol you might have crafted a little idol in your own heart that competes with God now the other what you're gonna tell me is well but pastor are you really saying that it's bad to work hard no I didn't say that I didn't say it's bad to work hard I didn't say it's bad to be a good steward of the finances that God puts in our life I think that's very biblical so let me put faithfulness on the other shoe and see how it fits in marriage right so there's probably more women in the room the men so let me pick on the men first so gentlemen those of you who are married how would you feel if you came to I'm let's just say you surprise your wife at work right you're gonna take her out for a super cool lunch date you've already lined everything up and you've got like stuff lined up at the restaurant and you're gonna surprise your wife at work and you walk in the door and she's flirting with a co-worker okay this was not the moment to look at everybody right so don't elbow people if you have to elbow people put on your Kinect card let's make an appointment talk about it later okay but here's my question so gents you show up to your wife's office you show up to your wife's work and she's harmlessly flirting with a co-worker and she says but it's just words like we're literally in a public space you know we're not we're not we're not kissing we're not doing anything wrong husbands would you be okay with that don't answer that out loud and don't elbow your wife it's a rhetorical question it happens up here right the common answer and of course ladies you get it right if I put the shoe on the other foot and ladies you show up at your husband's office to surprise him for a lunch date out and there he is flirting with some female co-worker are you gonna be okay with that ladies this is the point you can say not at all exactly why because you don't have to be fully unfaithful to be unfaithful right unfaithfulness doesn't start at adultery it ends at adultery it starts with much smaller things it starts with text messages it starts with with DMs it starts with little conversations I have that I don't tell my spouse about unfaithfulness begins in the small and grows to the large why is it so easy for us to see that when I frame it in the context of a marriage but so difficult for us to get when I frame it in the context of my relationship with God why is it okay to get away with the little things when it's God but not my wife well one of the easy answers is my wife owns multiple firearms that's a very easy thing but here's what I'm gonna tell you if faithfulness requires unwavering allegiance why would we choose to be more faithful to our human spouse than we do our divine Savior why is it okay to play with idolatry over here but I didn't actually go all the way through with it why is it okay to play with having something that I'm a little bit more allegiance to than God but it's okay because we didn't go all the way that would never stand in your marriage don't let it stand in your faith don't be okay with the little things because the little things can tumbleweed roll into big things and things that we let go and we let slide all of a sudden become things that become normative and normal and then when somebody challenges on us we get all like super uncomfortable and we leave and go to another church if you are not uncomfortable with the sin in your life being called out you are 100% wrong church because I don't have a problem calling it out now I probably won't do it up here because I don't like embarrassing people more than they need to be embarrassed but if you came to me and said hey you know I was doing this thing and it's against the Bible I hope that you would expect me to tell you hey that's probably not a good idea they call that sin they call that unrighteousness they call that being non-allegiant if faithfulness is unwaveringly allegiance both individually and corporately that means God must be priority one all the time in the same instance that my wife is always priority one in my relationship I don't have friendships with women who are not my wife period like even even some of you who are sitting in the church like I'm friends with you but you all know who my wife is and you all are friends with her I don't have friends who want to be friends with me and not my wife stop that's a bad idea right there and all of you know you get that friend request from that from that person who's holding her camera just a little bit high on their selfie right and they want to be friends with you and not friends with your wife I'm like why do you want to be friends with me then this is a two-for-one package man like this is Bill and Melanie there's never a bill without a Melanie why is it so easy for you to be proud of that but so challenging for us to be harsh on sin sin is just cheating on God in the same way that flirting would be cheating on my wife and you can say well yeah but you know flirting we didn't touch we didn't go all the way so it's really not cheating no it 100% was why because you gave away your allegiance and as soon as you gave away your allegiance everything else is just downhill why do you think Jesus said if you look at a woman lustfully you might you've already committed adultery why because you gave away your allegiance when your eyes wandered you gave away your allegiance when your brain wandered then you gave away more allegiance when your mouth wandered it's only a matter of time before the rest of you follow suit that's what faithfulness is it's unwavering allegiance and devotion to God above all other priorities now how do I know that let me give you a couple examples of unfaithfulness in scripture here's Hosea chapter 4 verse 1 here the word of the Lord you Israelites because the Lord has a charge to bring against you who live in the land there is no faithfulness no love and no acknowledgement of God in the land period here in the book of Hosea God is accusing his people of being unfaithful why because there is no love and there is no acknowledgement of God in the land is there if I just take this verse and I flip it to the reverse then I could say there is faithfulness when there is love and an acknowledgement of God in the land right I could I could make the negative statement I don't have time to unwind the entire book of Hosea because it's a fantastic story you should read the whole book sometime but the whole book of Hosea focuses on Israel's the unfaithful life in fact that's why the prophet Hosea has to marry a prostitute God tells him to marry an unfaithful woman so that his life is a living parable of how the children of Israel treat God I want God to make sure I go I don't go to hell but I don't want him to tell me that I can't do this thing that I really like I want my wife to know that I love her but I still want to flirt with my secretary then it doesn't work sadly we use one and not the other like it's okay take a look at Joshua chapter 7 verse 1 but the Israelites were unfaithful in regard to the devoted things Achan son of carmy the son of Zimri the son of Zira and the tribe of Judah took some so the Lord anger burned against him that's a fantastic chapter it's the first time in the book of Joshua the children of Israel lose in battle because someone stole stuff that God said don't take that stuff I mean that's the short version of it God said by the way when you take this city I want you to burn all the riches don't keep any for yourself burn them up and give them to me and that'll tell me that you love me more than money that's kind of what the story of Achan's all about he steals the money that was supposed to be devoted to God and he wanted more of it and 27 Israelite soldiers lost their lives in the next battle because they no longer had God's protection because they love got money more than God and that's all the way back in the book of Joshua then we fast-forward a little bit first Chronicles 525 but they were unfaithful to God to the God of their ancestors and prostituted themselves to the God of the people of the land whom God had destroyed before them this is probably the clearest most obvious verse if you put anything in your life in priority one over God you are prostituting yourself you're claiming to still be in relationship with God but then giving yourself to someone else all throughout the Old Testament adultery was the example of unfaithfulness to God why because you have to be you have to break your allegiance right in the same way that adultery breaks the allegiance in mayor physical adultery breaks the allegiance in marriage giving yourself to any other idolatrous thing whether it be money whether it be pleasure whether it be power whether it be I mean fill in the blank with whatever you want right now right there just make that a fill in the blank moment anything that can take priority over God puts us in unfaithful territory why because faithful requires unwavering allegiance now I'm gonna give you two mistakes that people normally make in the area of faith and then we'll and then we'll bring it home number one we often use faith as being related to belief when it actually hinges more on action oh I have such faith why because I believe something no you can believe something internally and still not do anything right I can believe something but still not live it out in my actions well how much do you really believe it if it doesn't influence your activity how much again let me just take an example how much do you believe I love my wife if I flirt with every other woman I meet right why because my love and devotion affects my actions so on the other foot how much do you believe I actually love Jesus if I just continue to tolerate flirt with sin same thing so mistake number one is we often view faith as being related to belief when faith actually hinges on action number two we use faithful in religion differently than we do in marriage and God doesn't see it that way I harped on that analogy because the Word of God says so it's not just my clever idea of trying to get you to understand faithfulness marriage is the just the clearest example in our culture that I can bring before you and say this is what faithfulness looks like unwavering allegiance and devotion wife for life ride or die who this is right my wife's bike there she goes right right when my wife and and I love that I can use my wife as an example because she's super amazing my wife and I understand that come hell or high water we're back to back against the world no matter what the enemy is going to throw at us matter what the enemy is going to throw at our church we are back to back no one is going to sneak up on us no one will wedge their way in she doesn't take text messages from random guys because I also own firearms and I would like to not have to have a prison ministry Paul had a prison ministry and I don't think that's where God has called me to so but if you would just I mean just ask yourself a simple question those of you who are married how much do you measure your faithfulness to your spouse in relationship to your faithfulness to God I think a lot of times because because our spouse is a human being that we see on a regular basis and and and you know I can I can wake up in the middle of night and I can hear my wife breathing and I know she's there it seems really easy to remember how to be a faithful husband because she's right there because God is not in our physical presence all the time do you do you let yourself off the hook like it's okay to look at that email or it's okay to have that conversation or it's okay to laugh at that joke or it's okay to watch those things online when no one's looking or it's okay to entertain like why are we okay with that when God is literally omnipresent you ever considered the reality that there's never a moment of your life where you are engaging in sin where God is not sitting there watching you and for those of us who are saved here you really want me to bake your noodle for those of us who are saved and the spirit has indwelt within us where do you think the Holy Spirit is when you actively engage in sin did he like take a coffee break from being indwelt within you did he be like okay tell you what you Dan you go ahead and do that sin I'm gonna go check in with Jesus and I'll be right back no the Holy Spirit is still in you when you are actively chasing sin you ever considered that I had pastor turn me on to that idea years ago and it really affected the way I think about how I live my life because let me just give you a great example just make sure who's the youngest person in the room okay youngest person rooms my kid I'm good so here we go don't say it out loud but what do what word do we use in the English language for forced or or or uninvited sexual contact just just don't say it out loud just put the word in your head right you guys all know the word I'm talking about four letters in it got two vowels it's got two consonants okay so so put that word in your head and that word that the definition in our culture that word is uninvited or forced intimacy now ask yourself a simple question if the Holy Spirit is resident within every believer even when they engage in sin you are dragging him into the sin of your life he is present in you as you are engaging in whatever the sin is in your life why because as Christians you you can't like tell the whole spirit to take a break that's not he's not Jiminy Cricket we're gonna be like hey just go over there for a minute I'll be right back I'll come get you he's indwelt within us the entire time which means he is present for every action we take for every decision we make somebody's playing the background I'll be watching sorry I grew up in the 80s most of my life has to have a soundtrack to it this is why faithfulness needs to be unwavering allegiance because let's take it back to marriage for a minute gentlemen if your wife was by your side 24 hours a day would you be tempted to flirt with other women the right answer is no just so we're clear okay just so everybody doesn't get in trouble before we get to lunch why because I would never dishonor or be disillegit to my wife in her presence well in the same instance if the Holy Spirit is resident within us every single moment of every single day that should be all we need to be fully allegiance to him and try to fight against those temptations that are are a part of the human body that we live in we live in a fallen world people ask me are we ever gonna be able to live without sin yes when we die that's the best I can tell you we live in a sinful world we live in a world that sin is saturated into the fabric of our planet it's saturated into the fabric of our DNA and our bodies but the benefit of the gospel is there is coming at time when this body fades away and my soul give a new glorified body that is free from sin and from sickness and from death that's the full story of the gospel don't don't just go to heaven and play a harp that is 100% you're missing the point we actually get to go it's almost like we get to go all the way back to Genesis 1 & 2 we get to go back to be creation being very good without the scars of sin on it but while we live in this world that's all messed up and it's all full of sin we have to live unwaveringly allegiance to God alone so worship team I'm gonna ask you guys to come back up as I bring this one in for a close here's your takeaway how to be faithful how do I be faithful here's your three here's my three-step answer this week number one recognize that our faithfulness is in response to God's loving character we can never be more faithful than he is we can never be more faithful than he is he is always drawing us to him with his faithfulness he's always drawing us to him with his love number two realize that unwaveringly one excuse me unwavering allegiance and devotion requires priority why is it super easy for me not to flirt with any other woman on planet earth because my wife holds the priority position of number one woman on the planet and as long as she holds that position nobody else is worth it nobody else is worth my time because she holds the number one position no other sinful activity should be worth my time because God holds the number one position in my heart unwavering allegiance and devotion requires priority and here's the third one we must reorganize our lives to place God as our first priority so if you're here this morning and you're asking what does belief in Jesus really mean on one hand yes it absolutely means that because of the blood of Jesus and the sacrifice he gave on the cross I am free from the eternal destination that my sin would have driven me to absolutely 100% but if that's the only thing we talk about then you're kind of selling Jesus like like fire insurance making sure that I don't have to go to hell whereas if last week is true or set apart for from a group for a purpose my salvation should not just change my eternity it should change my today and my tomorrow why because God is now my king and he gets my allegiance and if he has my allegiance that should change the way I live I should look different than the culture around me if my allegiance is to God and not myself or my personal pleasure or my personal money or my personal power or whatever that other fill-in-the-blank was you did about 20 minutes ago right if God is my king and he holds my allegiance my lifestyle and my decisions should look that way