Good morning. Happy New Year and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Coach Bill. Pastor Bill could not be here today so he sent me instead. Exactly. So let me give you the base introduction and then we'll get into it. Here at Catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change in Christ. And one of the ways in which we do that is by studying his word together. And the reason that Pastor Bill sent Coach Bill is because Coach Bill doesn't have to care how you feel. I care that you win. Pastor Bill's got to care how you feel on Monday and on Tuesday and on Wednesday. He's got to make sure you feel good about following Jesus. Coach Bill don't care if you feel good about following Jesus. Coach Bill cares that you do good at following Jesus. And so I brought a couple of these things from home because I wanted to make a illustration. How many people like going to the gym? Justin raise your hand. I know right? Right. So let me ask you a simple question. If I told you that I went to the gym all year last year and every single week I was true to my system, I was true to my thing, I went to the gym and I kept working out day after day, week after week and nothing changed. What would you ask? You would either ask number one, hey coach did you actually go to the gym? Like did you more than just take a selfie at the gym? Why? Because if I went to the gym every single week and you saw no change in me, no body composition change, no nutritional change, no health metric change, you would assume I'm doing the gym wrong. So here's how I want to start to hear out. If you've been at this church for longer than you hear and you have not spiritually changed, you're doing church wrong. It's like going to the gym just to take that selfie, just to stand on a treadmill and take a picture looking super cute in your gym wear because I look good at the gym don't I? Yeah of course I do. Justin looks good at the gym. Right? But the problem is that's what we turn church into. We've turned church into a worship experience. We've turned church into something that we go to, not something that we do, not something that we are. It's just merely a place just like any other place. I go to the restaurant, I go to the movie theater, those are things that are designed for me. Well guess what? Church is designed for you too but it's not designed for you to stay the same. So before we get to the other question everybody's gonna ask is, I thought Pastor Bill was gonna finish Revelation. Yes we are. We're gonna spend a little bit of time at the very beginning of the year with Coach Bill getting your year dialed in for your spiritual growth then we're gonna go back and we're gonna finish Revelation before we get to Easter. So I promise we will get there and we will finish it but I could not miss the opportunity on this very first Sunday of the year to set the tone for what I would hope that this year will be for us as a church. I do not want you a year from now to be in the same situation in the same state that you're in. In the same way as I told you I went to the gym every single week for a year you'd expect something in this to change. I mean it's hard for this to get better looking but trust me I could try. So that's why we titled this series Better. A New Year and a New You and if you'll do me a favor hopefully every one of you got one of these bulletins when you came in hopefully our ushers didn't let you get past. I want you to turn around and look at the back of it because I want to give you the key thought that is going to string this series of messages together. I'm gonna read it to you and then we're all going to read it together. So here it is. Here's your key thought. A disciple is called to be a holy faithful servant who worships God alone and is active in his community. Alright everybody got that? We got on the screen. Alright now let's read that together. A disciple is called to be a holy faithful servant who worships God alone and is active in his community. This is what I expect of you and this is what I expect of me. This is what I expect of every single person who calls themselves a Christian. We are all called to be holy. We are all called to be faithful. We are all called to be servants. We are all called to worship God alone and we are all called to be active as members in his community. It doesn't matter what church you go to. If you happen to be joining us online, I know we have several virtual family members, long distance family members. You are not absolved just because you happen to be watching this on a camera lens. You are required to be holy faithful servant who worships God alone and is active in his community. This is what I expect of you and so here we go. We're not just gonna go to the gym and take a cute selfie and look good. We're gonna come to church and actually be transformed. So over the next five weeks we are going to delve deeper into this definition that I submit to you. This is what a disciple is. Of course you're welcome to study the scriptures and make your own definition but this is the one that I've crafted after a significant amount of studying the whole of the Bible and trying to see how does the people of God worship and serve God. So this morning we're going to talk about how to be holy. This is what we're starting off with. How to be holy. And before I tell you how to be holy, we must first define what is holy. What does holy mean? So here it is. Holy means to be holy means to be set apart from a group for a purpose. Let me say that again because this is the quintessential thing that most people get wrong. To be holy means to be set apart from a group for a purpose. There are two components of this definition. First is the group from which is set apart. That's the first part of holy and the second is the reason for it being set apart. That's the second part. You're set apart from something. You're set apart for something. Does that make sense? Alright this has got to be interactive. So you got at least nod with me. Let me know I did a good job. So here we go. I'm gonna give you a couple examples of holy throughout the whole of the Bible just so we can establish how we see holy and what it is. So the first thing, let's look at what a holy day looks like. A holy day. If you brought your Bibles turn or tap to the book of Genesis, should be really easy. That's the first one. Genesis chapter 2 verse 3 and we'll also have it for you here on the screen. Genesis 2 3. Then God blessed the seventh day and made it holy because on it he rested from all the work of creating that he had done. So leave that verse right there. Two questions. What is being made holy in this verse? A day. The seventh day. What is the group that it is being set apart from? The other six days of the week. What is the purpose for which it is being set apart? It is set apart because God rested. Now remember a year or so ago we went through the book of Genesis. Did God rest because he was physically tired? No. Because God has infinite energy. He has infinite capability, infinite power. So he did not rest because he was tired and needed a water break. He rested intentionally to create a pattern for us. But here when he makes the day holy it is God who sets apart one day from the other seven for the purpose of resting from all he has done. Turn to the next book of your Bible. Exodus chapter 3 verse 5. Here's the story of Moses and in Exodus 3 5 God says this to Moses, don't or do not come any closer God said. Take off your sandals for the place where you are standing is holy ground. Now let's go back and let's ask our two questions again. What is being set apart? What is being made holy? Ground. What is the ground being set apart from? The rest of the ground. Other ground on the hillside. And what is the purpose that that ground is being set apart? Because that ground contains the very presence of God. Does that make sense? So the holy day can be set apart. Holy ground can be set apart. If you stay in the book of Exodus and turn to chapter 30 here's one you may not know is in there. Holy incense. How many people like burning incense at home? It's okay you can admit it at church right? Everybody likes a house it smells good. This is Exodus chapter 30. I'm going to read to you 34 to 38. In this passage God is giving instructions for how to set up the temple and worship and he says this, then the Lord said to Moses take fragrant spices gum resin which I don't know how to what that even smells like. Gallabanum and pure frankincense in equal amounts and make a fragrant blend of incense the work of a perfumer. It is to be salted and pure and sacred. Grind some of it to powder and place it in front of the Ark of the Covenant in the tent of meeting where I will meet with you. It shall be most holy to you. Do not make any incense with this formula for yourselves. Consider it holy to the Lord. Whoever makes incense like it to enjoy its fragrance must be cut off from his people. Now what is being made holy here in this passage? The incense specifically the recipe for the incense but the incense for use in the tabernacle. What is the incense being set apart from? All other forms all other recipes of incense at the time. So this one particular recipe this one incense is being set apart from all other incenses and why is it being set apart? Because it and it alone is to be used in the tabernacle for God's worship. So the incense is set apart from all others for the purpose of being used in worship. Let's keep going. First Chronicles. So now you're gonna have to fast forward a couple of books in your Old Testament. First Chronicles chapter 23 verse 13. Here we're gonna talk about holy things. First Chronicles 23 13. The sons of Amram, Aaron, and Moses. Aaron was set apart he and his descendants forever to consecrate the most holy things to offer sacrifices before the Lord to minister before him and pronounce blessings in his name forever. Now this is a little bit of a tricky verse because there's actually more than one thing being set apart in this passage. First is Aaron and his sons and his descendants forever. They are set apart from what? From all of the other people in Israel. Set apart for what? To be able to minister before God. But I also want you to notice on my notes it's on the third line. Do you know if it's on your third line or not? But to consecrate the most holy things. The most holy things. What are the things mentioned in 23 13? They are the very tools or objects used in the temple and in the tabernacle for making sacrifices for God. What are these things set apart from? All other farm tools. This is God's Leatherman not everybody else's. Right? They took these things and they set them apart from all other things and they set them apart from all other things for the purpose of being used in the temple and in the tabernacle and that makes them holy. Alright now go back to Exodus chapter 19. Here's the last one. A holy nation. Exodus chapter 19 5 & 6. Now if you obey me fully, this is God speaking to his people. Now if you obey me fully and keep my covenant then out of all nations you will be my treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine you will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words you are to speak to the Israelites. So what's being set apart in this verse? The nation of Israel. What are they being set apart from all of the other nations of the world? What are they being set apart for? For the purpose of being a kingdom unto God himself. I realize it's a bunch of different examples but I wanted you to see that every time something is made holy it has to be set apart from something and it has to be set apart for something. If you try to set something apart from something but you do not set it apart for something then it lacks purpose. If you try to set something apart for something without setting it apart from something then it lacks speciality. It's just mundane. It's just ordinary. It's just well I happen to use that tool this time to do this thing. It's not having been set apart. The reason I need to stress this is a lot of times I think in Christianese you know in Christian church we overuse words and we use words like we think we know what they mean. Like oh I'm so holy. It's okay right? How many times come on let's can we just it's guys this is week one we got a lot of 2024 to go. How many people have heard the word holy misused in church? Come on I know I have. How many people have heard the word holy misused because you try to use it like it comes from you right? Oh I'm holy because I don't do that thing or I'm holy because I don't use those words or I'm holy because I don't do that. You can't define holiness in the negative because you're not set apart from something. You're not set apart for something. You're setting yourself apart from an activity not for a purpose. Holiness must start with God and if God can make a day holy, if God can make a thing holy, if God can make an incense recipe holy then certainly God can make his people holy. But if we get confused about what holiness is or sadly what it isn't then how are we supposed to apply this to ourselves? How are we supposed to learn? Now I'm gonna read you a whole bunch of verses and I do not expect Dino to keep up with me so nobody turn back and look at the tech team because there's a junk load of verses. I just want to read this to you right? The whole tech team is going whoop whoop. All right just listen Leviticus chapter 11 verse 44. I am the Lord your God consecrate yourselves and be holy because I am holy. Leviticus 11 45. I am the Lord who brought you up out of Egypt to be your God therefore be holy because I am holy. Leviticus 19 2. Be holy because I the Lord your God am holy. Leviticus 27. Consecrate yourselves and be holy because I am the Lord your God. Leviticus You are to be holy to me because I the Lord am holy and I have set you apart from the nations to be my own. Deuteronomy 23 14. For the Lord your God moves about in your camp to protect you and deliver you deliver your enemies to you. Your camp must be holy so that he will not see among you any indecent thing and turn away from you. Ephesians chapter 1 verse 4. For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. Hebrews 12 14. Make every effort to live in peace with everyone and to be holy for without holiness no one will see the Lord. And 1st Peter chapter 1 15 and 16. Just as he who called you is holy so be holy in all you do for it is written be holy because I am holy. That's and that's just a couple of them. I didn't even list them all. What I need you to understand is two simple facts. Fact number one. Holiness requires being set apart from to be set apart for. Fact number two. You are called to be holy. That is what the Bible says and here at Catalyst I don't apologize for what the Bible says. If you don't like it you can complain to Pastor Bill tomorrow but Coach Bill don't care. So here's the point. If God is the true and one source of holiness meaning that which makes other things holy right. So we talk about holiness and earlier on in the history of our country there was the holiness movement right and people like people were holy because they didn't do certain things. The reality is we are only made holy when God sets us apart from other things for himself. So if holiness requires being set apart from and set apart for and you are called to be holy then we only got to ask two simple questions. What is it that I'm set apart from and what is it that I'm set apart for because that's what it means to be holy. It doesn't mean to be holy that you go to church more than everybody else. Trust me I've worked in this life for 20 years. I've worked alongside of people who go to church five or six times a week and their heart is as wicked as wicked as long and I've met people who walked in church for the first time in years who were humble and sweet and broken in the presence of God. So you're not holy by the number of times you come to church. You're not holy by the amount of money you give to church. You're not holy by the amount of times you can send your pastor an email in a given week. Some of you try. Say again coach Bill can say that because he doesn't have to carry a few. You are called to be a holy people and in order for each one of us in order for us collectively to be a holy people you get the fact that that means individually we have to be holy right. Right so John is called to be holy and Jim is called to be holy and Tyler is called to be holy and Gary is called to be holy and I could go down the line every single one of us. Jerry's called to be holy. Phil's called to be holy and when all of us are called to be holy that's what makes the church holy. The church is not holy because of who's not here. The church is holy because of who is here and since he's the only source of holiness in the whole universe he's the only thing that can make things holy then what we have to do is ask ourselves what am I set apart from and what am I set apart for. It's the only two questions that matter. So Christians are called by God to be holy and here's your answer ready what are Christians set apart from? We are set apart from the rest of humanity. We are set apart from the rest of humanity and we are set apart for God's presence and his purposes. That's it. I can boil all of this holiness discussion down to something really simple. If you are a follower of Jesus you are set apart from all of humanity for a special purpose and that is the presence of God and the accomplishment of his will not mine. Makes it really simple and yet it doesn't because there's still a whole lot of life left to live right. There's still a lot of whole lot of decisions left to make but this is the foundation that I need our year to begin with. If you are a Christian you are weird. Welcome to the club. Why are you weird? And we were having this discussion with my family a few months ago because some of the rules that my wife and I have for our children are aberrant from what's normal for most American teenagers. My children are not allowed to use social media until they turn 18 because it has been statistically proven the advent of social media is the single largest contributing factor to the rise of mental illness in young people in this country. Period. That is not there's not an opinion that is a statistical fact. The number one thing that has caused teen suicide to rise is social media. Period. It's like been improved three or four times now so my children aren't allowed to have that. That doesn't mean I don't love my children and a family member of ours not one of my children a family member came and they said to me but but pastor Bill don't you think that's gonna make your children feel really weird because everyone else their age gets to have this thing and and and you're not letting your children have it. I'm like yes but you missed the idea I'm raising my children to be weird we accept that on the way in the door. Have you met me? Of course I'm weird but that is that's a given going in going into life going into the world going into the way I relate to culture. I'm the weird one and that's okay because he's the one who pulled me out of all of the rest of humanity and gave me a new purpose not to live for myself not to live to make money and have a big house and have an expensive car like those things could be there but that's not my purpose for living. I was set apart from humanity by a Savior for his purposes not mine and that means I'm weird and that's got to be okay or you're really not gonna like the rest of the series I promise. If we are set apart from humanity we are set apart for God's presence and purpose. The final thing that I need to explain to you is how do we live being holy. Now I'm gonna get on my soapbox for a minute do you know just take a pause this is not in the notes but I feel like saying it and I'm the one with the mic so I get to choose. Last semester so many of you know I'm still in school I'm working on my doctorate last semester I had to write a paper and I got a real like bug up my saddle for something that I didn't like that the authors of the textbooks I was assigned and they were using the words holiness and godliness interchangeably and I got really really mad because I'm like wait a minute if he's the source of all holiness I don't make myself holy by what I do he's the source of holiness that's called me to be holy godliness is my response right I choose to be godly because he set me apart I don't get more holy by setting myself apart because holiness can't start with me and so I got pretty upset and I wrote probably a really good big section of my paper taking the authors to task and telling the school why they should stop using those books because that theologically they're just inaccurate I got a really good grade on the paper but my teacher went she was hmm okay and moving on didn't make any comments about my argument although I got a good grade on it here's what I want you understand if God is the one who sets us apart if God is the one who calls us to be different then he is the source of our holiness godliness is what the word we use to describe our response to him when he set me apart from all of the rest of humanity and he calls me his own child and he saves my soul and he becomes my king he did all of those actions not me I didn't earn my salvation I'm not good enough smart enough tall enough fast enough strong enough to be deserving of his love he just gives it freely godliness is my response it's my accepting that I don't belong over here anymore now I'm over here that's how I live see my accepting of it didn't put me over here that was him he's the one who said and this is your mind they go now walk this path instead of that one so when I use the word holy I need to understand that you are not the source of your holiness but you are the source of your godliness and those are two different words godliness is our response to God making us holy you with me all right now how do we live as holy I'm gonna give you three things the first if you turn to the Genesis chapter 1 26 27 fantastic verse foundational for the Christian worldview the first thing I need you to understand is humanity is set apart as image bearers of God all of humanity is set apart as image bearers of God Genesis chapter 1 26 27 here's how it reads then God said let us make mankind in our image in our likeness so that they may rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the sky over the livestock and all the wild animals and over the creatures that move along the ground 27 so God created mankind in his own image in the image of God he created them male and female he created them first thing I need you to understand you're a human being then okay like can we can we do does everyone in the room and everyone watching online accept the reality that you are in fact a human being so I can just premise one we'll just move on because you are a human being you are made in the very image of God that means every Muslim and every Buddhist that means every confirm with whatever people group you need to hear it are made in the image of of God. This is foundational to who we are as creatures and as beings and the nature of what we are as humans. We are the coins struck from the master mold of God's very nature. Now, I've spent most of the week meditating on this idea of what does it mean to be an image bearer because I'm trying to write my next book and this is a big part of it is understanding how do I tell people what does it mean to be made in the image of God. Here's what I'm fairly certain it means. I'm going to say fairly certain because if you'd like to debate it after church I would welcome it. It means two things. Number one, it means that our nature is crafted after God's nature. We talk about the story of how humanity was made right? When God created the world what did he do? He spoke it into existence. Let there be light. Let there be, let the water separate from the water. Let the dry ground appear. Let the plants grow. Let the animals grow. But then how did he make Adam? He didn't just speak Adam into existence. He reached down with his hands. He crafted Adam from the dust of the ground and then he did something unique that he did not do for the rest of creation. He breathed, right? The Hebrew word ruach. He filled Adam with the very breath or spirit of God. That's why I'm a firm believer if you give away Genesis 1, 2, and 3 we've given away most everything that's important about humanity in the gospel. Humanity is made in the image of God and we and we alone are formed from the nature of God. We have a spiritual nature capable of communing with him. We also have his moral thumb print, right? The moral thumb print of knowing right from wrong. That's part of God's given nature he made into humanity. But if you take a look here at verse 26 there's something else that is unique to the image of God in man. He says let us make mankind in our image and our likeness so that they may rule over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, the birds of the sky, over the livestock, the wild animals, and all the creatures that move along around. He is created in the image of God to be his representatives on this planet. You are made in the image of God to be his representative on this planet. Every single atheist, every single Muslim, every single Buddhist, every single Baha'i, every single Sikh, I mean every single fill in the blank with any other world view religion or political affiliation you can come up with. If every human being is made in the image of God then lost or saved every human being is made with his nature to represent him. And just like a coin, right? If I were to take a coin and I could scratch the surface of that coin that doesn't mean the image isn't there. It just means that it's marred. That's what sin did to the image of God in humanity. It's like taking a coin and scratching the surface of it. It might have a couple of deep gashes in it but I can look, I can hold it at a certain distance and I can still see the image on the coin. That is what humanity is. We are the reflection of the nature of our creator. But just like you're set apart from something for something, the nature of God in humanity is not a toy for us to use for our own or ourselves. The nature of God in humanity is so that we might represent our creator. So the very first thing I need you to understand about being holy is you are a coin struck from the master mold of God's nature. And you carry, even though it might be a little scratched, might be a little dinged, still good. Those of you who wanted an Aladdin reference, there you go. I grew up on Disney so I'm sorry you're just going to have to get them. Every single human being is struck by the nature of our loving creator and built to represent him. Now we fast forward from Genesis chapter 1 to Genesis chapter 12. Now I'm going to scope down. Now it's not just all of humanity. Now we're going to dial that telephoto lens in a little bit. Genesis chapter 12 verses 1 through 3. God's people are set apart to be a blessing to others. So here's the second layer to what does it mean to be holy. Here's Genesis 12 1 through 3. The Lord God said to Abram, go from your country, your people, your father's household to the land that I will show you. I will make you into a great nation. I will bless you. I will make your name great and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you and whoever curses you I will curse and all the peoples on earth will be blessed through you. That is called the what covenant? Abrahamic. I heard it. Thank you. That's the Abrahamic covenant. Here in Genesis chapter 12 God chooses his dude named Abram. He makes this covenant with him that the whole world will be blessed through the descendants of Abraham. Ultimately as we watch that story play out through the whole of the Old Testament leads us to the awaiting of the arrival of the Messiah of God. Jesus comes. He lives. He dies. He resurrects and it is through Jesus the one true seed of Abram that the entire world is blessed. But here's what Jesus never erased. Jesus never erased the purpose of God's people to be a blessing to the world. It goes all the way back here to chapter 12. Go from your country, your people, your father's household to the land that I will show you. I will make you into a great nation. I will bless you. I will make your name great and you will be a blessing to the world. If we are to understand that not only am I a human being, which means I carry the very nature of God, but secondly I am a part of God's chosen people so we inherit this as part of what am I set apart for? I am set apart to be a blessing to the world. What's the number one way I can be a blessing to the world? I can introduce more people to who Jesus is. But sometimes, think like the parable of the good Samaritan, sometimes you got to bless people with what's happening in real life before we can get them all the way to Jesus. Like come on man, some people just need a little help with their electric bill. Some people just need somebody to help rake some leaves. Last week my wife and I were sick and one of the church members just said, here, soup. Didn't ask me if I needed soup. Didn't ask me if I wanted soup. Just showed up at my house. I made this for you. I really don't care if you've eaten today or not. If you ate today, you can eat it tomorrow. Here, this is a blessing for you because I know you don't feel good. By the way, it was so anybody who needs soup, you can just get in line after Megan and she makes killer soup. We are called as God's people not just to be the nature bearers, the image bearers of who He is. We are called to be a blessing to others. And sadly, a lot of times Christians end up being the people who judge others more than help others. A lot of times, historically the Christian church, it's gone through these waves back and forth. If you watch church history, we were really good at caring for people and then we got really good at hurting people and then there's a revival and we got really good at caring for people and then we got religious and we got really good at hurting people and we've wafted back and forth over the centuries. We are called to be a people who bless people. We are called to be a people who love people. And we can love people not only because people are important. That's the number one reason Christians should love people because every single lost person is made in the image of God and it's a crime to let that image be lost from God's presence forever. And I don't care if you agree with them. Listen, yeah let me say this in a way that doesn't get me fired. You don't have to agree with someone to love them. There are plenty of people in this world that I disagree with that I love desperately. There are plenty of people that I don't agree with their position on an issue or don't agree with their position on an idea or topic. That doesn't mean I don't love them. You know the number one reason we have to love everybody? Because every single human being that you have ever met or will meet is made in the image of the God who called you to be his own. There is no room in a Christian world view for hate. Sadly that's the box we get painted into a lot of times. Sadly that's the box we get pushed into. As an apologist it's my job to push those boundaries back and say no actually you're also made in the image of God therefore I love you but I don't have to agree with every one of your choices to love who you are. It's just like the coin. And here's what I find so funny. Even people who deny the existence of God. Right? Some really fun conversations online with atheists. Even the atheist who denies the existence of God is still made in the same image of the God that he or she denies exists. So I must treat them with love because even though they deny the existence of God their very presence is the image of the God that they deny exists. So you got to treat them with compassion. You got to treat them with love. So first number one as a human being you're an image bearer. Number two as part of God's people you are set apart to be a blessing to others. And here's the third thing. Turn all the way to the New Testament. John chapter 13. Christians are set apart to love people to Jesus. This is the third layer of what you're set apart for. Christians are set apart to love people to Jesus. John 13, 34, 35. A new command I give you. Love one another as I have loved you so you must love one another. And in 35 by this everyone will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. We are not holy because of what we do. We are holy because of what he has done. And what is it that God has done? God has set us apart from all of humanity for the purpose of being the people to represent him. Which is all the way back from Genesis. To be the people who blessed the world. Genesis 12. And to be the people who point back to the only one source of holiness. John 13. So how do I boil all of this down and bring it into a landing? Here you go. Here's your take away. This is also printed on the back of your bulletin. How to be holy. Three easy steps. Ready? Here's how to be holy. Number one. Recognize that being holy comes from God not us. You can never make yourself holy because you cannot set yourself apart. And if you can't set yourself apart, then you can't make yourself holy. Only he who sets apart makes holy because that's what holy is. So number one, we recognize that being holy comes from God not us. Number two, we realize that set apart requires us to be different. And here's where the rubber meets the road and lots of people want to say amen and get uncomfortable. If your lifestyle does not look different from the culture you live around, you're not set apart. See? Pastor Bill would have to worry about that. Coach Bill don't give a rip. If we don't look different than the world around us, then what are we? We are at worst hypocrites who say we're set apart but live in the mix. Your lifestyle needs to be different because either A, you're not actually set apart or B, you're trying to be... And here we go. Yeah. Let's just go for it. You have to understand. Like the whole time I stand up here, I have this other conversation going on in the back of my head where the brain mouth filter is trying to stop me from saying anything that might cause me to lose my job. You're not set apart so you get what you want. You're set apart to live for what he wants. The idea that you can be saved and decide what's best for your life is a lie. If you are saved and set apart by Christ, then your decisions should be made according to his word. There is no room for Christians who claim that they are set apart for Jesus but live for themselves. That's like going to the gym and taking a selfie but never doing the work. You will not change. Why? Because at the end of the day, you claim to be set apart for yourself. You've made yourself the idol of your life. You have replaced his authority with your preferences and then claim to still be a Christian. No, you're a selfian. Why? Because all you worship is what you want. I'll tell you another one since we're already there, let's finish it. If you can live your life and never be challenged by what the word of God says, you're either A, not reading it or B, not reading it well. Because I still read the word of God and go, ooh, yeah, okay, God, that's got to change. That's not going to be comfortable. My favorite comment in prayer, but God, I like it that way. And I'm sorry, the Holy Spirit in me is from Jersey. He's like, so what? I'm sorry, I forgot to ask you. Bill, how did you want that? Let me rewrite the commandments. My job is not to live, and here's the truth, my job is not to live for myself. Why? Because if that's the case, then I would still be a part of the very humanity that I was set apart from. So if you're struggling to live for him and not yourself, the first question I got to ask is where are you set apart? How are you different from the humanity that we were set apart from? How are you different from the image bearer who's lost and still going to hell? They're still an image bearer, and that image is going to get crushed. And then ultimately, so number one, we recognize that being holy comes from God, not us. Number two, we realize that being set apart requires us to be different, and here's your third one. You must reorganize your activity to serve and grow in Christ. If your life is not centered around the question, God, how am I growing in you? Then you might not be done being set apart for him. You might get the idea that I'm set apart from the world. That's super easy, because then I can just look at everybody else and tell them why they're super unrighteous and super sinner and super all that stuff, and it makes me feel good that I'm set apart. But if you're not set apart for the purpose of the kingdom, then you're still just wasting everyone's time, and worse, you're making my job harder, because you're the Christian that I have to apologize for every time I meet a lost person who's been hurt by the church. Because you say I'm set apart, but you're not set apart for his purposes. You just claim to keep salvation for yourself and then decide for yourself what's holy and what's not. He's holy, I'm not. Like that makes it really easy. I'm not holy. I'm only holy when I am set apart from humanity for Jesus. Two part action, and you don't get one without the other. Because if you say you're set apart from humanity and you're not set apart for Jesus, I've got to ask a simple question. What are you being set apart for? And for the most part, you know what it is? My preferences. I'm set apart because I like my church a certain way, and I like my podcasts a certain way. And don't tell me about my entertainment because I like it this way. If our life is not transformed by Christ, then you're not living for him. Like doesn't that make simple sense? I realize this is the first week of the year, but it's just got to make so much sense. Recognize that being holy comes from God, not us. Realize that being set apart requires you to be different and reorganize your activity to serve and grow in Christ. That's what it means to be holy. And that is my challenge to each and every one of us this morning. I want you to be holy. I want you to get the fact that Christ did not die to give the throne of your life to you. You know what I'm saying? He did not die and resurrect and rise from the grave on April the 9th, AD 30. He didn't do that to make me the king of my life. He set me apart because he's the king of my life. And now my allegiance is owed to him. And now my will is subject to his. And now my decisions should be subject to his word. That's what it means to be set apart from and set apart for.