Biological evolution
from
In order for evolution’s story of the history of life on this planet to be true, several key facts must be
assumed true. However, when the evidence is examined, there is no support for these foundational
facts on which evolution rests. Without these assumptions, evolution can never take place.
EVOLUTION’S ASSUMPTIONS THE MILLER-UREY EXPERIMENT
a: Biogenesis In 1953, scientists Stanley Miller and Harold
Biogenesis means “beginning of life”. The Urey attempted to simulate the conditions of
Law of Biogenesis states, “Life arises only the early earth in a closed system containing
from pre-existing life, not from non-living certain gases, water vapor, and an electric
material” spark to generate energy. The experiment
was found to create some amino acids, which
b: Nature of First Life are the building blocks of proteins. This was,
Even if life could arise from non-life, that and still is hailed as a ‘proof of concept’ that
doesn’t mean evolution is true. The first life living things can arise from non-living matter.
had to also be able to reproduce. Without
reproduction, evolution can never happen.
THE PROBLEM WITH THE PROTEIN
c: Genetic Information
Proteins are the building blocks of life.
Even if self-reproducing life could
Proteins themselves are constructed out
spontaneously generate out of non-living
of amino acids. The Miller-Urey experiment
material, this still doesn’t prove evolution is
was able to generate some amino acids
true. Life is encoded with genetic information
but claiming this is ‘proof of concept’ is
that simply can’t be explained as random.
overstating it’s case. A major problem still
exists for evolutionary theory.
EVOLUTION’S CIRCULAR REASONING
Amino acids occur naturally in left-handed
Evolution requires but cannot explain how and right-handed pairs. Left-handed amino
life spontaneously generated from non- acids built proteins while right-handed ones
living material, is able to self-replicate, or destroy life. In order for evolution to be true,
is able to generate new genetically encoded one must believe that only the left handed
information. All of these are assumed to have amino acids combine to make proteins while
occurred because of a previous commitment all of the right-handed ones remain excluded.
to believing evolution is true. This is a giant leap of faith that has no
evidence to support it occurring naturally.
This is circular reasoning!
© 2024 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.

Biological evolution
from
Over the years since Darwin, several pieces of scientific evidence have been offered as proof of
evolution. These alleged proofs have since been found to be false. Sadly, some of them, even after
being proven to be false are still being used in textbooks to teach evolution!
EVOLUTION’S “EVIDENCE” EVOLUTIONARY IMPOSSIBILITY
a: Embryonic Recapitulation A giraffe has an impressively strong heart
Ernest Haeckel asserted that embryos that is able to pump blood against gravity
re-experience the evolutionary process up it’s 8ft long neck to its brain. Without this
in their development. This has now been
powerful heart, it could not live. But, when it
demonstrated to be false.
lowers it’s head to drink water, if the giraffe
did not have unique valves in it’s circulatory
b: Horse Evolution Charts
system, the blood pressure from it’s heart to
Textbooks have often included pictures of
the alleged evolution of horses from smaller it’s brain would cause it to have a stroke. The
mammals. This has now been demonstrated heart, valves, and neck muscles all have to
to be false. work together to accomplish this. It’s hard to
see how this evolved over time.
c: Natural Selection
Natural selection is claimed to be the
mechanism which drives evolution. But,
DARWIN’S DOUBT
nature can only select animals that already
exist, this does nothing to demonstrate how
new animals come into existence. In “The Origin of Species” Darwin admits, “If
it could be demonstrated that any complex
d: Animal Adaptation
organ existed which could not possibly have
Animals can and do adapt to their
been formed by numerous, successive, slight
environments. Also called ‘micro-evolution’
modifications, my theory would absolutely
this type of small change within a single
animal form does nothing to prove one kind break down.” Dr. Michael Behe, professor
of animal can become a completely different of biological sciences at Lehigh University
kind of creature.
in Pennsylvania has offered an answer
to Darwin’s challenge called, “Irreducible
e: Similar Structures
Similarity in form or structure of an animal, Complexity.” Like a mousetrap, all parts
say apes and humans, is often argued as of a system are essential for that system
evidence of a common ancestor. Observing
to function. Dr Behe offers the bacterial
the structure of any two animals does not
flagellum which operates like an outboard
prove their ancestry. This type of evidence
can just as easily prove a common Designer motor on a boat and would not be able to
rather than a common ancestor. function without all its parts as an example.
© 2024 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.