Good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. My foot is getting a little better, but probably not good enough for me to stand. So this way I sit, I can preach longer. Isn't that great? Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you for being a part of our worship service this morning. For those who have not met me, I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here. For all of you who are joining us online, thank you for being a part of our extended Catalyst family. I know many of you go back and forth between being here in Wilmington and being online. And there is a few and proud who are online only. Some of you because you live local and some of you because you're at a distance. You are all part of our family and I appreciate you. This morning I am going to do a standalone sermon. So we just got done with VBS last week and so VBS took a lot of study time. And we're supposed to start a teaching series on the gifts of the Holy Spirit, which will be a question and answer style series. So if you've not been at Catalyst for a Q&A series, next Sunday you will be able to ask questions in real time while I'm teaching via the Catalyst app. Ask the questions. They will go to the back where my wife and Miss Donna will feed them up to me on my phone up here. And so I'll be teaching and interacting with your questions all in at the same time. But as you can imagine, that also takes a good amount of time to prepare for. And I didn't want to come into Sunday not fully prepared. So I'm going to do a standalone sermon this morning entitled Counter Culture. And in order to kind of help us warm up, I have a little bit of a game that I would like us to play. For those of you playing online, especially those of you in the chat, I'm going to ask a question. And I just want you to go ahead and put the answer right there in the chat on your phone. For those who are here in the room, I'm going to put a picture on the screen or not me, but our incredible tech team in the back is going to put a picture. If you know what the picture is, I'm just going to ask that you raise your hand. Please do not yell it out. And then I will call on somebody and you guys and we'll see how many hands we can do. Is everybody ready? Okay, Mr. Dino, fire away for our first thing. Also, Yusef, you'll have to obviously fan back far enough. All right, Miss Casey, what's on the wall behind me? An iPhone. That's absolutely correct. All right, let's go for number two. All right, hands. All of a sudden, they got about a half. Alex, what's this? That's right. That's the original old school iPod. For those of you who had that. All right, let's go back. Somebody. Mike, it's all. No, not a record disc. Mr. Steve, a CD compact disc. Yep, that's a CD. What's the next one? Somebody. Miss Andrea. Specifically, what kind of tape? Emily Ohms, what kind of tape? Cassette tape. That's right. That's a cassette tape. All right, let's go again. Yes. Yes. An eight-track. What's the second word? Eight-track tape. That's right. An eight-track tape. All right, let's keep going. Yes, ma'am. That's a vinyl record. That's right. Let's keep going. Mike and Joel. A radio, correct. Keep going. Yes, ma'am. Jukebox. That's right. That only had like three or four hands in a room. All right, let's keep going. I'll give you a hint. It's not a record player. So if you think it's a record player, Mr. Jim. Phonograph. That's correct. That's the granddaddy of all music players. Phonograph. All right, so what did all of those things have in common? They do play music. I feel like the other thing you have in common is I think at one point or another someone in my family has owned every one of those. I think I owned at least all the way back to the record player. I don't know if my grandmother had a phonograph. But we listen to music. And what's interesting is we all love music. We all listen to music. We all share music. But the way in which we have done it over the years has transformed a lot. Just in my lifetime. And this is where, Micah, you can keep your I'm old comments to yourself. How about that? My teenager loves to remind me that all of my gray hair is because I'm super old. And some of them, when did they ask us the other day? What was your favorite song from the 1900s? If I had a double jointed shoulder, I'd reach to the back of my car and smack somebody. What's my favorite song from the 1900s? You mean back when music was music? Yeah, we'll talk about that. Back when I had to play a guitar and actually know I have a band. It's a funny way to introduce a rather serious topic. The way we love music and the way we share, excuse me, the way we love music has not changed at all. But the way we listen to it and the way we share it and the technology we use in order to distribute it has changed a lot. I know in my lifetime, I grew up listening to cassette, then CDs, then downloading your own MP3s. Shout out to Napster and LimeWire. Right? Then ultimately streaming services. And now, literally, I was looking at my iPhone storage last night. I have 73 gigabytes of just music on my phone. It's the number one largest thing on my phone. It's not even photos and video. I have more music on my phone than anything else. But music hasn't changed. Right? The fact that we love music hasn't changed. I want you to consider this. Culture has changed around music. But David used to write songs for God. All the way back in the middle of the Old Testament, he had a stringed instrument, the great-great-great-great granddaddy of the Les Paul electric guitar. And he used to write music for God. And so there has to be a moment where we realize that culture around music has changed, but our love for music has not changed. And in the same way, I could say that culture around Jesus has changed, but the way we love Jesus has not. The way we communicate him has changed greatly. And that's what this whole game was really about, was getting us to the point that we realize we live in a secular culture that's not centered on Jesus. That doesn't mean we don't love Jesus. And it doesn't mean that we are still not responsible to share him with others. But if you came out the box with an eight-track tape trying to say, man, you need to hear this Jesus. I mean, exactly, Jim, you're going to be a little misplaced. Even at this point. I remember my wife and I were watching on social media and they gave a millennial a cassette tape who had never seen a boombox before. And then trying to figure out how does this make music? And then the massive shifts to go from magnetic tape to CD, which any of us who were in that era, we made that really easy. And then you had the nice giant book of CDs that was in your car, right? Which I think is hilarious for all of you young people who are learning how to drive. And all the adults are telling you, don't touch your phone, don't touch your phone, don't touch your phone. Meanwhile, while we had the massive two-sided case logic and eight CDs in front of you all at the same time, and you're like with your fingers sorting and swapping. Yeah, we didn't. We survived. So let me give you the key thought, because this is really where I'm getting to. Relating Christ to a non-Christian culture is not a new task. So we don't need to reinvent the wheel. There are so many people. In fact, I saw a reel on Instagram just the other day, and it was a pastor preaching about is the church becoming political? And his argument was, no, the church is still where we've always been. Politics is getting a whole lot more theological. And so they've gotten a whole lot closer to our camp. I think we need to remember that when our faith was born, we were born into the midst of a non-Christian culture. You know why? Because in the first 30 years of Christianity, they thought Christianity was just some sub-sex part of Judaism. We were just our own little thing down here. We were definitely not in control of culture. We were just a part of our own little thing down here. We were just a part of our own little thing down here. We were definitely not in control of culture. Those of you who like your history, in 313 A.D., so in the year 313, Emperor Constantine issues the Edict of Milan. It was not a fashion show. Sorry. The Edict of Milan permanently establishes religious tolerance for Christianity throughout the Roman Empire. I want you to hear that. 313 A.D. The edict of Milan permanently establishes religious tolerance for Christianity throughout the Roman Empire. I want you to hear that. 313 A.D. The edict of Milan permanently establishes religious tolerance for Christianity throughout the Roman Empire. I want you to hear that. 313 A.D. What year did Jesus resurrect? 30. That's right. April the 9th, A.D. 30. I'm not a super good math guy. I'm not a super good math guy. I know Alex, you're counting, you can probably tell me. I know Alex, you're counting, you can probably tell me. 313 A.D. slightly bigger than 30. Right? So if Christianity is born in A.D. 30, and it's not until 313 that Christianity is legalized, and it's not until 313 that Christianity is legalized, and it's not until 313 that Christianity is legalized, there was 200 and some odd years of faith there was 200 and some odd years of faith there was 200 and some odd years of faith having to deal with and communicate with and connect to a culture not based on Jesus. not based on Jesus. Not yet. Hold on. The other thing I want to point out, for those of you who are not just history buffs, but you like to read, there was a main author named Tom Holland, no, not the guy who plays Spider-Man. Same name, different dude. Sorry. There was an author named Tom Holland, who is an atheist, who wrote the book, Dominion, How the Christian Revolution Remade the World. How the Christian Revolution Remade the World. I have a copy of it at home. Wonderful book, super deep read, and very super deep read, and very serious for those of you who want to get at what Roman life was like. The argument that Holland makes in Dominion is that all you and I know of Western culture is built on Christian ideals. Even if you didn't grow up in a Christian country, if you grew up in any country that came out of Western culture, Western culture is built on certain precepts that came from the Bible and Christianity specifically. Like justice for all humans. Justice for male and female equally. Like human persons are valuable because they've been made in the image of God. Things that are now enshrined in the UN's Charter of Human Rights came out of Christian ideals. But if you rewind back Jim to the first 200 years of our faith, we didn't live there. We didn't live in a culture where men and women were equal. Men were in power and women were property. We didn't live in a culture where human life was valuable. If you had money you were valuable. If you didn't you were a slave. This is the world in which our faith, we didn't live in a culture where everybody thought there was one God. The Romans and the Egyptians and the Greeks, they had tons of different gods. And you could go to whichever temple, whichever god you liked on that week. We have become so accustomed to hundreds and hundreds of years of growing up on a culture that was built on Christianity that when culture departs from Christianity we freak out because we don't know what to do. So what I want to share with you is the good news. This challenge, this problem of relating our faith as Christians to a culture no longer based in Christianity is not a new thing. Yes, maybe we need to skip over the iPod and the CD and the cassette and the 8-track and take it back to old school with vinyl. Which is weird because now you can buy vinyls in Walmart again. So now it's not only old school but it's retro. Maybe we need to take a little bit of that thinking in the Christian church. We need to bypass the way we've thought about faith for the last couple of hundred years or even a couple thousand years and go back and look at what was faith like when we had to relate to a culture not based in Christianity. In order to do that thankfully we don't have to look very far. All we have to do is go to the book of Acts. So those of you who have your Bibles with you today, I want you to ask you to turn or tap with me to Acts chapter 17. If you are using the Catalyst app, I did not create fill-ins for today because again I spent most of last week prepping and teaching for VBS. But the Catalyst app does have a Bible built into it so you can absolutely use the Catalyst app. Go directly to the Bible. It's right there at the bottom. The second tab from the left says home Bible. Click that. Fully interactive Bible. You can get multiple translations and you can listen to it in audio form. I will be reading it in the NIV this morning. Acts chapter 17 I want to read verses 16 to 34 and then come back and chop this up because I think there are some very good lessons for us to take away from Paul's interaction in Acts 17 for how we can interact with a culture no longer based on Christ. So let's take a look at this. Acts 17 starting in verse 16. While Paul was waiting for them in Athens he was greatly distressed to see that the city was full of idols. So he reasoned in the synagogue with both Jews and God fearing Greeks as well as those in the marketplace day by day with those who happened to be there. A group of Epicurean and Stoic philosophers began to debate with them. Some of them asked, well, what is this babbler trying to say? Others remarked, he seems to be advocating foreign gods. They said this because Paul was preaching about the good news or Paul was preaching the good news about Jesus and the resurrection. Then they took him and brought him to a meeting of the Areopagus where they said to him, may we know what this new teaching is that you are presenting? You are bringing strange ideas to our ears and we would like to know what they mean. All the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there spent their time doing nothing but talking about and listening to the latest ideas. Then Paul stood up in the meeting of the Areopagus and said, people of Athens, I see that in every way you are very religious for as I walked around and looked carefully at your objects of worship, I even found an altar with this inscription, to an unknown God. So you are ignorant of the very thing that you worship and that is what I'm going to proclaim to you. The God who made the world and everything in it is the Lord of heaven and earth and does not live in temples built by human hands and he is not served by human hands as if he needs anything. Rather, he himself gives everyone life and breath and everything else. From one man he made all the nations that they should inhabit the whole earth and he marked out their appropriate times in history and the boundaries of their lands. God did this so that they would seek him and perhaps reach out for him and find him though he is not far from any one of us. For in him we live and move and have our being as some of your own poets have said, we are his offspring. Therefore, since we are God's offspring, we should not think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image made by human design and skill. In the past, God overlooked such ignorance but now he commands all people everywhere to repent. For he has set a day when he will judge the world with justice by the man he has appointed. He has given proofs to this or he has given proof of this to everyone by raising him from the dead. When they heard about a resurrection of the dead, some of them sneered, but others said, we want to hear you again on this subject. After that, Paul left the council. Some of the people became followers of Paul and believed. Among them were Dionysius, a member of the Areopagus, and also a woman named Demaris, and a number of others. Stop. So let's rewind back. Let's go back to verse 16. Now it says, while Paul was waiting for them in Athens, stop. Obviously, we are jumping into the middle of one of Paul's missionary journeys. We're jumping into a specific scene in a specific city, but verse 16 lets you know the reason he stopped in Athens was to wait for some of his friends to catch up to him. That also means this section, this scene right here, is Paul by himself in Athens. Timothy's not with him. Silas isn't with him. Barnabas isn't with him. All of the other characters that we read about spreading the gospel in the book of Acts, they're all doing other stuff at this moment. Paul traveled to the city of Athens, and then he is waiting there for his friends to rejoin with him. And while he is waiting there in Athens, the second part of verse 16, he was greatly distressed to see the city was full of idols. Athens was so full of idols, it is named after a pagan goddess. Does anybody want to take a guess? Yes. Athens is named after the goddess of, anybody know what Athena is the goddess of? Yes. Wisdom. She's the goddess of wisdom, of thought. Athens is at this moment in history, the center of Greek culture, of Greek philosophy, where we get theater and acting from. Have you ever seen the tragedy and comedy masks that are very typically the symbol of theater? They come from this place in this time. Athens is named after Athena, the goddess of wisdom. It is where Greek culture, specifically Greek philosophy, which has influenced everything that came after it, is all in this city. And while Athens, at the moment that Paul is at here in Acts, in verse 16, is a little bit of a shadow of its former glory, because now the Romans have taken over, Romans are the military power. But Athens is still the cultural power of its day. The thought that comes out of Athens drives the rest of Roman culture. Basically, the Romans just had different names for all the Greek gods. And Athens remained a multi-cultural center, both inclusive of and critical of all beliefs and ideas. Now that's something that we have a little bit of in our culture, but not quite to the way that Athens would have. You could walk into Athens and have any belief system you wanted. Any religion would be accepted. Any belief system. But you had to show up. You had to show up in the Areopagus in Gretchen. If you wanted to say that you followed this Nazarene carpenter who came back from the dead, you're going to have to prove why your belief system should be considered equal to the other belief systems of their day. So they were inclusive in the sense that everybody had a shot at the table, but they were also critical thinkers in the fact that, you know, Claudia, if your belief system does not bring the same explanatory power and explanatory scope as the Epicureans or the Stoics or the Jews, you're welcome to hold your system, but it's not as philosophically robust. This is the city that this scene takes place in. And this is why I believe God chose a guy like Saul of Tarsus to call to become the Apostle Paul. He chose a guy who was good, well read, studied, he studied Greek writing, he also studied Jewish writing, he was a Pharisee, which meant he was very, very faithful in his adherence to the law. I personally like to think that Paul was a little bit of a jerk. You have to, you have to have a little bit of that edge if you're going to be an apologist and walk into a city like Athens and hold your own. And again, this is Paul by himself defending Jesus. Sharita, there are whole gangs of Epicureans and Stoics and people who believe you should worship at the temple of Athena. Other people believe you should worship at the temple of Zeus and of Poseidon. He is walking into a massive open-ended religious warfare and he walks in alone. I think you have to be a little bit of a jerk to do that. A little bit okay rubbing shoulders with people and making them feel a little uncomfortable. And that's all just here in verse 16. And then we see Paul's response when he sees the city of Athens full of idols, verse 16 says he was distressed. He was not just distressed in the sense of saddened. Like this is not just an emotional word. Am I saddened by the idolatry of our country today? Yes I am. I am saddened by it. But if all it is is an emotional response then that doesn't really do a lot. This word distressed here means he was agitated to the point of action. Anybody ever been there? Anybody right? I didn't say aggrivated. I said agitated. There's a difference. Don't raise your hand if you were aggrivated to the point of action because then we need to pray. I mean agitated. Is something gotten under your skin and just not let you go to the point that you have to say something? That's Paul in verse 16. He is agitated by the idolatry in his city that he's in to the point of action. That's verse 16. Now we go to 17. So here's what comes out. Here's the action out of his agitation. So he reasoned in the synagogue with both Jews and God fearing Greeks as well as in the marketplace day by day with those who happen to be there. Stop. Paul is in Athens, the center of Greek philosophy and thought. He witnesses all of this horrible idolatry that's going on. He is agitated to action and he has a two step plan. And any of you have ever read the book of Acts, you're going to see that Paul is playing the Paul playbook right here. He's doing what he does best. He argues in two separate places. The first is the synagogue. The synagogue is the place of Jewish learning. It is the place of his tribe, his people. In the synagogue, he would be speaking to people who already believe there's one God because they're Jews. And also notice he says God fearing Greeks. That is Greeks who have jettisoned the polytheistic culture and believe that there is in fact one God and strive to obey the one God. So there were Greeks that were in the synagogue. But they are Greeks that gave up their polytheistic pagan culture to accept Jewish monotheism. They didn't have to live by the law, but they did have to live by certain aspects of Jewish monotheism. So when he is in the synagogue in verse 17, he's talking to people who already believe that there is one God. They may not have the same background as him. Some of them are Jews, some of them are Greeks. The modern day analogy to this would be presenting the gospel to a Muslim. Muslims are already going to accept that there's one God. A Jew is already going to accept that there's one God. We don't have to argue which God is God because even the Muslim and the Jew are both going to say God is the creator of the universe. Now we are totally going to disagree about his nature and his name. Sure, that's where you got to present. That's where you got to show up. That's where you got to be in their face a little bit. But the first place he goes is the Jewish place of reasoning and discussion. But then he goes somewhere else. Verse 17, as well as in the marketplace. Pop quiz, what was Paul's day job? I heard it. Tent maker. Right, he was a tent maker. So what does he sell in the marketplace? Tents and stuff to do with tents, right? So he would be familiar not only in a religious setting, but in a business setting. This is him, not in the church, not in the synagogue, but out in the marketplace where people are buying and selling and commerce is happening. Paul is also representing Jesus in the marketplace. And out in the marketplace, not everybody, Jim, you're not going to get everybody to agree that there's one God. You know, in the marketplace, everybody shows up to work with their own belief systems. And we're in the middle of Athens where they're inclusive of everybody. You can walk in and believe in the Flying Spaghetti Monster if that's what you want to do. I would say that sounds an awful lot like corporate America today. Right, Jim? You and I talk about corporate America all the time. Corporate America does not have a religious stance. It's not supposed to. It's business oriented. The marketplace that Paul is in in verse 17 is business oriented. You might be doing business with somebody who worships at the Temple of Mars, the God of War. You might be doing business with a woman who serves in the Temple of Athena. You might be doing business with a Jew. You might be doing business with, I mean, I don't know, fill in the blank. Any religious idea. Paul had to be able to talk, religious talk in the synagogue and also represent Jesus in the marketplace. And notice at the end of verse 17, literally whoever happened to be there. Like you roll up on Paul in the marketplace, you're going to hear about Jesus. That's just who he was. He didn't have planned speaking engagements in the marketplace. This wasn't a scheduled Ted Talk. He just walked in. He's selling his things and as he's engaging in conversation, he's representing Jesus. And when he's in the synagogue, he's a Pharisee. He knows the synagogue well. Then we get to verse 18. Here's where the conversation begins. A group of Epicurean and Stoic philosophers began to debate with him. Stop. I need to explain to you a little bit about these two groups so that you'll kind of understand where they're coming from. But I do want you to notice the word debate. Remember I told you Athens is inclusive but critical. You're allowed to have your opinions but you've got to show how they make sense. So that's the idea he's in. You're allowed to have your opinion, we've got to show it makes sense. So the Epicureans, the Epicureans are deists and materialists who believe that the goal of life is to pursue happiness by avoiding pain and loving all mankind. Gods are real but they are distant and they do not interact with human beings. So that's why they're deists. Deists believe there is a god or there are multiple gods but they do not communicate with human beings. So we're on our own. Two, an Epicurean, the highest value of life is the pursuit of happiness. But unlike a hedonist, so a hedonist, their job is to pursue happiness through what? Anybody remember? Through pleasure. So the hedonist, their job is to pursue happiness through the seeking of physical pleasure. And Epicureans pursuing happiness not by the pursuit of pleasure but by the avoidance of pain. As long as I don't experience pain, I'm happy. As long as I don't experience ouchy, as long as I don't experience emotional pain, intellectual pain, stress, anxiety, then I'm happy. Happiness is the absence of pain, not the presence of pleasure. That's why those are two different world views. I would say that the Epicureans do sound a lot like our contemporary society. As long as my stuff don't go bad, I'm all good. Now there's definitely a section of our society that's hedonistic, absolutely. So the Epicureans think the pursuit of happiness is the avoidance of pain. The Stoics, totally different people, these people are not spiritual but not religious. They believe the goal of life is to accept the lot that Gods have given you and make the best of it. Stoics are very prideful and very self-reliant. So a Stoic will never try to change their life situation. They will try to be molded and better in it. If you've ever heard Stoicism comes from this group of people here. If you've ever heard a description for those of you who like to read where a character was stoic in the face of danger or stoic in the face of pain, that's because the Stoics believed whatever your lot in life is, it was given to you. If you were born a slave, you were born a slave. Be the best slave you can be. If you were born rich, you were born rich. Be the best rich you can be. Be a character no matter where you start. But stay where you start. Don't try to better yourself. Don't try to leave. And that's why the Stoics were much more philosophical and spiritual whereas the Epicureans were emotional. As long as I can avoid pain of all things, I just love everybody. Everybody, this is so good. Very, very flower power and hippie culture. We're just going to avoid pain. It's just happy, man. It's just all totally good. That's the Epicureans. The Stoics would be much more lockjaw. Yes, I'm sorry that my impression of Epicurean sounds like it's high all the time. But that's 100%. It's all good, man. It's totally cool. We don't have to go there. Versus the Stoic, I am going to make it through this. Because I am better. Yeah. So these are the two groups that begin to debate with Paul. Can you see why both of them would have a problem with the message that Paul's bringing about the resurrection? See, because if you choose to serve Jesus, then you're not going to avoid pain. Because if going through pain is what Jesus needs, then that's what you're going to do. If you choose to follow Jesus, it might involve not just accepting the lot you have, because Jesus gives you a new life. Jesus gives you a new life. So both of these groups are going to have a significant problem with the Gospel. Then we get to verse 19. They took him and brought him to the Areopagus, where they said to him, May we know what this new teaching is that you are presenting. So I want you to notice, first he started presenting in a synagogue, his tribe where he knew his people. Then he started presenting in the marketplace, his place of business, where he knew how to conduct himself, and he was familiar with what was around him. Because of those interactions, Paul then gets invited to speak directly in an inner place. This place is called the Areopagus. It is where the religious debates of their day were taking place. The Areopagus is the center of Jewish debate and thought in this moment. He is invited to the inner circle of Greek culture to present the Gospel. He didn't start there. He started in the synagogue in the marketplace, but he made enough of Areopagus that he got invited in to talk to people who were ready to listen. And this is the first key that I want you to have about relating Christ to culture. We should not go out and just beat people over the head with the Bible. To be honest, I think our culture is tired of it. That doesn't mean we don't go out and we represent Jesus every day. But I can represent Jesus checking out at the grocery store. I can represent Jesus rolling through Chick-fil-A. It's really easy to represent Jesus there. Everything's blessed. I can represent Jesus no matter where I am. I don't have to have a sermon ready to go. That's what Paul did. He debated with these people. Do you really believe this guy came back from the dead? I absolutely do. Here's all the witnesses. He wasn't willing to just say, this is how I feel. This is what I believe. Listen, faith is not built on feelings. It's built on facts. Hopefully, you would want to believe in that which is true. And that's what he's doing here. So when they invite him into the Areopagus, he is invited to the center of Greek philosophy, the center of culture, the center of those inclusive but critical debates to represent Jesus as the resurrected king. They brought him into the center of their cultural discussion. Verse 20. Then here's what they admit. You are bringing some strange ideas to our ears. We would like to know what they mean. So Paul goes to the Areopagus. He presents Jesus. But he presents Jesus in such a way to entice them to listen more. And here's where I think we have failed. And I say we, as largely evangelical Christianity, and especially the pastors who have been responsible to teach evangelical Christians. We've taught you that all humanity is a sinner, that all sinners need a savior. So just go tell everybody they're a sinner. Can I tell you that that generally doesn't go over well? Right? Like anybody gone to Starbucks and opened with, you're a sinner, let's talk about what's wrong in your life. I don't think that's a super positive opener. I don't think that's going to put people on a foot to listen to what you have to say. Now there are plenty of different tracks you can take to that. And I'm going to relate one at the end of the message. But I need you to understand that when Paul presented Jesus in the Areopagus, he presented truth in a way that was compelling, not judgmental. This is what we need today in our 2025 TikTok Instagrizy culture. We need to be able to present the truth of Christianity in a way that is compelling and that draws people into conversation and doesn't push them away because they get offended. So they say we would like to know more what you mean. 21. All the Athenians and the foreigners who live there spent their time doing nothing but talking about and listening to the latest ideas. Where in our culture do people spend the majority of their time talking about and listening to the latest ideas? Social media specifically. Specifically which services? Somebody said it. Instagram. What's the bigger one? TikTok and Facebook. I would argue TikTok, Instagram, and Facebook and Twitter. Let's throw X in there. Sorry, Elon. X. Throw X in there. So between Instagram, Facebook, TikTok, X. Danny, am I missing one? Reddit. Thank you. And Reddit. Between those, that's where the marketplace is. That's where culture is talking about its ideas. That's where ideas are being exchanged from videos into the comments section or Reddit, you know, reading Reddit threads. That's where culture is. That's where Jesus needs to go. The problem is, and now I will say, I don't use TikTok because I'm old and gray. That's fine. That's what my teenagers would say. I do like to scroll Instagram. Number one, because I find really funny things to send to my friends who don't find them as funny as I do. And that's really enjoyable. But number two, I like to watch the way Christians present themselves on social media. I like to see how the kingdom of Christ is being presented. In this moment, Paul is drawn into the center. He's drawn, he's invited to go on Joe Rogan's podcast. Right? One of the most watched YouTube shows of all time. That's Paul going on Joe Rogan. That's Paul being invited onto all of the major you know, news networks that you watch. Whatever, whichever channel. That's Paul being, and I don't even know who the biggest TikTok person is, but whoever that person is, inviting Paul to come on. This is where he's at. And Paul stands up and hears how he presents Jesus to culture. 22. Paul stood up and said, people of Athens! What's up, bros? I see that in every way, you are very religious. This is Paul. This is a Pharisee. This is somebody who knows well Greek people do not live according to God's law. This is somebody who knows what sin is. Who knows what hedonism is. Somebody who knows the difference between Epicureans and Stoics. And he opens with you are very religious. 23. For as I walked around and looked carefully at your objects of worship stop. Here's where we get it wrong. Paul is in the heart of pagan Greek culture. The city is strewn with idols. Does God appreciate the idols? No, he does not. Does God care about the lost people who are going to go to hell because they worshiped those idols? Absolutely does. Paul is not offended by the idols of Athens. He studied them. He walked around the city and he looked at them and he read them. But he didn't just read them. He read them to be like culture. Here's where the difference is. Paul looked for the one thing he could find in Athens to build a bridge. And then he built it back to Jesus. And so now I'm going to say something that's going to offend all of you at the same time. So I'm an equal opportunity offender. Ready? There are two types of Christian responses when it comes to culture. One Christian says, well I have Jesus so I stand apart from culture. Okay, you suck. You're never going to present the gospel if you can't reach people who are sinners. So I just offended half of you. Here's the other half. Ready? The other half of you are like, that's right. Jesus sat with tax collectors and sinners. Yeah, he totally did but they left changed. So don't just sit around with tax collectors and sinners and not present the gospel and think you're any better than the judgmental guy who didn't present the gospel. If both of you fail to present the gospel, then both of you fail at the mission. If your excuse is, I don't present the gospel because I'm too religious, you failed to do the mission. If your excuse is, I don't forget the gospel because I want to spend time around sinners, then you still don't present the gospel, you fail the mission. Paul walked down the middle. He wasn't offended by the idols. He saw them as tools to reach lost people and he looked at the idols long enough until he could find a bridge to connect those idols to that king and then he went for it. There has to come a point. You can't just hang around with your lost friends and never bring up the gospel and say you're representing Jesus. You're not. You also can't isolate yourself from non-Christians. You can't isolate yourself from those who need to hear the gospel and pretend that you're a better Christian because of it. We saw a billboard somewhere. Oh, it was driving home. We took our daughters down to Dover this past weekend because they wanted to go to a K-pop party. I know. Pray for me, right? But on the way home from the K-pop event, there was a billboard and it was solid white with black letters and it was kind of worn because it was there for a while and it asked a very heartfelt question. It said how many people will be in heaven because of you? I was like ugh. That hits where it needs to hit. It's not just representing Jesus. Congratulations. Be an ambassador. Believe in Jesus. Read your Bible. Pray. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. Speak in tongues. Do whatever you want. But save somebody from hell. That's the mission. So here we have Jesus. He's walking I mean not Jesus, Paul. He's walking through Athens. He's studying. He's looking deeply into the idolatry of that culture and he finds the bridge to an unknown God. And he goes, I got this. So you are ignorant of the very thing that you worship and that is what I'm going to proclaim to you. You see by using the altar to the unknown God he's starting in their culture, in their language something they already accept and he uses it as the means to present Jesus. The altar to the unknown God was a pagan altar. And he uses it and connects it to Jesus. This is how we relate Jesus to culture. We don't start with Jesus and find a cute story or an analogy that they maybe can relate to. No. Start deep in the heart of culture. Start with something that is foundational to the culture we live in and tie it back to Jesus. Because that's ultimately where we want to get them to go. We're not trying to insert Jesus into culture so they can go, wow, you're such a good relatable guy. No. I'm trying to relate culture something you already believe is true and show you how that connects you to Jesus so we can get you there. Does that make sense? 24. The God who made the world and everything in it is the Lord of heaven and earth and does not live in temples built by human hands. And he is not served by human hands as if he needed anything. Rather he gives everyone life and breath and everything else. That's 24. 25. Paul was in Athens. The city is littered with temples. Right? The city is littered with places to worship pagan gods. And he says, no, no, no, no. This one right here. This little nugget, this little secret altar you have to the unknown God. This is the real God. He doesn't actually live in all those big temples that you built. He doesn't need things from your human hands as if he needs anything. He is the one that gives life to you. After Paul was invited into the center of culture, he immediately challenges the root of their theology. In our modern day, it would be being invited in the middle of culture and challenging the root of their ideology. Right? And I'll use Joe Rogan as an example. If Paul was invited onto Joe Rogan's podcast, the easiest way to relate to Joe Rogan is relate to his skepticism. Right? Relate to his need for questions. You know, hey, Joe, where do you think you ask why? Where does that idea that you can ask why and learn things come from? Where did your mind come from? Like that would be a way to connect to a guy like Joe Rogan. 27, or excuse me, 26, I apologize. From one man, he made all the nations, now he's laying out a biblical theology. From one man, he made all the nations that they should inhabit the whole earth. And he marked out the appointed times in history and the boundaries of their land. Now Paul is saying, this one God that you worship at the altar of the unknown God, he is not only the source of all humanity, he is the power behind all empires. Because the Greeks and the Romans, they were big on their empire building. They were big on their colonizing, right? So he relates and he says, no, the one true God that's altered the unknown God you have over here, he is the God that is behind the power of the Greek empire and the power of the Roman empire. 27, God did this so they would seek him and perhaps reach out to him and find him, though he is not far from any of us. This God that you've been worshiping unknown, that I am declaring to you, he's the God who made you. He's the God who made your culture. And he is the God who is not far from you. He did all of this for you to seek him. Man, this would be super attractive to a culture that spends their time debating philosophy and theology. Wait a minute. You're saying, all he's doing, he's basically changing the root underneath. Everything that they believed in, everything they thought about. No, this is the God. 28, for in him, we live and move and have our being. As some of your own poets say, we are his offspring. Now, those of you who are reading that, either on your phone screen or in your Bible, do you notice the little quote marks in verse 28? Quote, for in him, we live, move, and have our being, end quote. And then also quote, we are his offspring, end quote. That's super significant. Paul is quoting from two different Greek philosophers. That's why that's important. When you understand where he's standing and who he's talking to and the fact that he weaves in two quotes from incredibly important, influential Greek philosophers, what does that tell you about Paul? Paul knew his Greek philosophy. He knew he was talking to and he knew how to talk to who he was talking to. He knew how to relate to who he was talking to. This is why I cannot relate to car guys. Because I don't know how to relate to people who can make cars, do magical things, like change the brakes. Right? That's like a magical thing. Jim comes over and he waves his magic crescent wrench, or he waves his magic torque wrench and all of a sudden brakes get changed. And I find that to be amazing. I can't do that. So if I needed to relate to someone who was a mechanic, I would need to have a conversation with somebody like Jim who could teach me those things because I don't know how to do that. I don't know how to relate to it. So then he uses quotes in 28 and now 29. Now he makes a conclusion based on their quote. Therefore since we are God's offspring, that was their idea, Greek idea, all humans are God's offspring, we should not think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image made by human design or skill. If you are a child of God, you're not made of stone, you're not made of gold, you're not made of silver. So God's got to be made of something that made you. That's what he's saying. And I'm going off of your own idea. You're the offspring of God. That was a Greek idea. But if that's true, how can you think God is made of gold? You're not made of gold. How can you be the offspring of something made of gold if you're not gold? Clearly, he must not be made of gold. Then 30, in the past, he overlooked such ignorance. But now commands all people everywhere to repent. And this word has gotten kind of a bad rap in Christian circles. I had a debate with a pastor friend of mine one time on what is the correct interpretation of the word repent in this verse. The word repent literally means to change one's mind or to turn one's thinking is really what it means. Change your mind about what you think about something. Anybody ever change their mind about something? That means to repent. But in church culture, right, in Christianity, we think that the word repent automatically has to come with the walking away from sins and the understanding about original sin that all humans are sinners. And I was debating with a pastor friend of mine about this verse. And he's like, no, Bill, the word repent here automatically smuggles in original sin, the fall, it automatically smuggles in all the biblical theology. And I said, really? Do you really think that standing in the middle of the Areopagus in the center of Greek culture and Greek thought and life, does Paul know what he's saying biblically? Absolutely. But do we think that Paul's audience understood all the biblical theology that we understand about the concept of repenting from sins? I don't think so. Does that mean it's not true? No, of course it's true. But you have to ask yourself when Paul said this, people everywhere to repent, Paul knew what repentance was. He's a Jew, he's grown up understanding what sin is. But if he's talking to a Greek audience in the middle of the Areopagus that doesn't even believe there's one God, that doesn't mean they understand the concept of sin at all. So what is he getting them to change their mind about? Here's why. Don't disconnect from 31. Look at this. For he, the God who created everything, who you are his offspring, has set a day when he will judge the world with justice by the man he has appointed. He has given proofs of this to everyone by raising him from the dead. So who is Paul talking about? Jesus. What is Paul asking them to change their mind about? Jesus. I don't think repent in that verse is trying to smuggle in an entire biblical theology of sin. Even though it is true, and you've heard me say this before, the forgiveness of sin is how salvation works. Not that salvation works. Mr. Phil, could you do me a favor? Could you please touch that light switch to your left? What happened? Lights went off. Could you turn it back on for me? Since I just asked you to sit down. That's great. Okay. Now you can stand. I promise. I'm not going to ask you to get up. Do you have to understand all of the electrical engineering that goes into those lights to understand how to use the light switch? No. We can teach our children, don't forget to turn out the lights. Or, anybody ever got up and turned on the lights? Or, anybody ever got up and gone to the bathroom in the middle of the night and do this thing? And you're searching for the light switch to flick it on before you walk into the cold, dark bathroom? Do you have to understand all the electrical engineering it takes and how the circuit's built and how the power gets there? No. You just got to understand how to flip a switch. I think that's the message Paul is showing in this verse. He's not trying to smuggle in all the theology of how salvation works, justification, and Jesus dying as the propitiation for sins. All of that is true. But you have to learn how to change your view on Jesus, and then you understand how all of it is worked out. In our American church, especially growing up Baptist, all I ever learned was sinners need a savior. The problem is when you have to convince someone they're a sinner in order to trust a savior, it makes sharing the gospel a whole lot harder. Here, Paul just simply asks them to change their mind about who the afterlife judge will be. See, because the Greeks all believed in an afterlife judge. That's why, has anybody ever seen put coins on a deceased person? You know what the coins are for? To pay the boatman to cross the river Styx. It's Greek mythology. Every life had to be evaluated. The Egyptians had their view of afterlife judgment. The Vikings had their view of afterlife judgment. The Mayans, the Aztecs, the ancient Chinese, everybody had their view of the afterlife judgment. All they disagree about is who the judge is. That's when you get here into verse 31. He said, God has appointed this man. Verse 32, when they heard about the resurrection of the dead, some of them sneered, but others said, we want to hear you again on this subject. Paul uses the resurrection as the justification for why Jesus is the afterlife judge that everyone will stand in front of. 33, at that, Paul left the council. 34, some of them believed, or some of the people became followers of Paul and believed, meaning in Jesus. They didn't believe in Paul. Paul doesn't say. They believed in Jesus. And then we have names. Among them were Dionysius, a member of the Areopagus, and also a woman named Damaris, and a number of others. Paul debates with the Jews in the synagogue. He talks in the marketplace, selling his tentwares. All of that conversation led to the real conversation, being invited in to the inner circle in the Areopagus. That's where he challenges their theology. He presents the resurrected Jesus as the afterlife judge, and people got saved right there. Two of them that were named. Others, but two of them that are named. This, I think, offers us the best map of how to relate Jesus to our culture today. The first is you have to understand how culture thinks. So, I'm using the acronym G.O.A.L. So first is you have to grasp how culture thinks. If you do not understand how culture thinks, how can you possibly relate to them? How can you possibly present Jesus as like the skibbidy-riz savior? I was waiting for everybody to groan, and my son's about to come out of his skin. I just had to make a point. Those of you who are older and have no idea what that sentence is, be blessed and stay lucky. Right? You have to understand how culture thinks in order to relate to them. Second, you have to find a point of agreement. We cannot start presenting the gospel by bashing people over the head by what they do wrong. You have to open a point of agreement somewhere. Spend enough time, listen to the way they think, and find somewhere that links to the biblical world view. They may not see it as biblical. That's okay. They didn't, the Athenians didn't see. They'd alter to the unknown God as presenting Jesus until Paul showed them the way. So A, you've got, first you have to G, grasp how culture thinks. Second, O, open with a point of agreement. A, adjust misunderstandings. Paul didn't have a problem changing their theology. Y'all are wrong, y'all are right about this, but wrong about this. Being right about one thing does not make you right about all things. And being wrong about one thing does not make you wrong about all things. So you find, understand how they think, you find that point of agreement, you start building that bridge, and on the bridge, correct some of the thinking that's wrong. And then L, link it back to Christ. So grasp how culture thinks, open with a point of agreement, adjust misunderstandings, and link back to Christ. Now I'm going to give you an example of how to do that. And then we're going to be out. So, if I wanted to reach culture today, I would start with the importance of human dignity and human autonomy. Each person is uniquely valuable and autonomous unto themselves. No person should be denied their autonomy or their freedom by another person without, no one should be denied their rights. Right? This idea of human dignity and autonomy. Secular culture says that each person is intrinsically valuable and should be free to make their own decisions. That's great! That is totally great! Alex, we can start there. My bro, I agree. Every person is uniquely valuable and should be free to make their own decisions. This is going to link into identity politics. This is going to link into the debate between homosexuality and heterosexuality. This is going to link into the debate over reproductive rights and health care and abortion care. This is going to do all of that with this one statement. Human dignity and autonomy is important. Bam! I found my bridge. Interestingly, the Bible also teaches that humans are intrinsically valuable and created to be free creatures. But here's the problem. So we agree, human dignity and autonomy. But here's the problem. Secular culture can't give a reason for why humans are valuable and autonomous. If evolution is correct, and if we all just evolved from a single celled organism all the way up through time, and the last thing we were was apes, then humans are no more valuable than blades of grass. There is no human dignity if evolution is true. There is no human dignity if there is no God who created humans. So this is where we have to adjust the thinking. But if there is no God and there is no free will, evolution is true. We're only just evolved cells and we have no choices. Here's what happens. If there is no free will, you don't actually make choices. Everything is decided for you by chemistry and physics. So that leaves a problem for the person with the secular worldview who A, wants to hold that humans are in human dignity is important and all humans should be free, but there is no God and we all evolved from cells. If you all evolved from cells, your free will is nothing but an illusion. It's all still decided by chemistry and physics like it was in the beginning. However, we can offer a better answer here. If there is a God who made humans in his image, then it is God's image on humanity that makes humans free and valuable and have dignity. It's God who gave free will, and that means no human should have the right to deny another human their free will. We can completely agree with their point, but just like the altar in Athens, show them that their point is grounded on something stronger. A guy named Frank Turek, he's an apologist, he wrote a book called Stealing from God years ago, and it's how many arguments atheism actually steals from Christianity in order to make their point, and one of them is human autonomy and human freedom. We can tag onto that idea and draw them forward and go, but wait a minute, if we're all just evolved humans, how do you justify that humans are valuable? Now, there are some people in our culture who would absolutely say humans are no more valuable than animals. We are no longer, we are no more valuable than animals. Well then, why is it important to be human? You might say that intellectually, but you don't live that way. You don't live like your wife is equally valuable to the stray squirrel that's in your backyard. If you do put that on your connect card, we have to have marriage counseling. So we can link that to a God who created you in his image and who loves you and who vested dignity in your life and who invested free will in your life, but who is also going to judge the way you use your free will in your life. Just like Paul did, now we link it to, you're right, everybody's allowed to live how they want, but everybody has to answer for the choices they make. And now we link to that afterlife judgment. See, and as Christians, we believe that the resurrection of Jesus proves that he and he alone is the afterlife judge, and it's his scale we're going to be measured on. Because if every single person is free to write their own ticket, then you understand that means everybody gets into heaven. And then, if they go, well yeah, well that sounds good, then just follow it up. Do you think Mother Teresa and Hitler deserved to be in the same place in the afterlife? Most people will say no to that. Most people will say no. Somebody like Mother Teresa, who spent her life caring for the poorest and the poor in Calcutta, India, and Hitler, who ran the Nazi party and murdered millions of people, these two people are not the same. So you do have a moral center. Where does that come from? And what's the scale? What's the equal universal scale that all humans are going to be measured on? Well, as Christians, we believe that the resurrection of Jesus proves that he's the afterlife judge, and so it's his scale we need to live by. And you know what he taught? He taught that all humans are uniquely valuable. All humans have dignity. He stood up for women in a culture with didn't. Women had more rights because of Christianity than any other influence on the Roman Empire. Hands down, not even a debatable issue. Christianity gave value to women. Christianity gave value to humans. And that's how we can relate, starting with their argument, human dignity and autonomy, and bring it back to Jesus. Does that make sense? So I'm going to go ahead and bring this in for the takeaway and bring it in for a landing. Relating to Christ requires finding commonality, building a bridge, correcting misunderstanding, and pointing to Christ. This is what we need to do. Each of you need to go out, and in your everyday life, whether you're at church or whether you're at the marketplace, whether you're checking out and getting your wah-wah drink in the morning, or whether you're at work, you're representing Jesus. Now I understand those of you who work in corporate America, you can't just preach Jesus all day long. You don't have to. You can make small little comments, drop little breadcrumbs, mention something crazy that your ADHD pastor said last Sunday. You know, it would make my son very happy if it wasn't the skivety-riz comment. Yeah, that would make him very happy. We need to become more familiar with the idols of our culture for the purpose of building a bridge and relating them to Christ.