Well, good morning and welcome to Catalyst. Good morning. My name is Bill. It is my privilege to be the pastor here. I really, really like that video because it lays up what we're going to talk about today in just a perfect little frame, a perfect little setting. So if you are new to worshiping with us, my name is Bill. Welcome to the Catalyst family. If you are joining us online, Happy Easter. Thank you for being a part of our service. Kenzie, can you turn my mic down just a tad? I'm going to get, I plan on being excited and once I get excited, I really don't want to blow everybody out. So, here at Catalyst, we're about one thing and that is loving people too. Life change in Christ. That's right. So if you're here this morning, we love you. If you're joining us online, we love you. But we love you enough to tell you the truth, which is I don't want you to stay the same. I don't want you to learn about Jesus and it not affect the way you live your life. Now, this morning I get the privilege of talking about the single most important variable in all of Christianity. So I titled this morning's message, Is He Risen? All over the world today, Christians are celebrating the resurrection of Jesus. They're celebrating an event that Christianity has claimed for 2,000 years was a historical event. Christianity is not just a faith of things we think or things we feel. Christianity has always claimed that the resurrection of Jesus is an actual historical event that took place on the pages of human history. Now, if you got the handout that our ushers handed you this morning on the back, there's some space for some notes you can follow along. On the front, there's a QR code. We'll use that towards the end of the service. If you're going to follow along in your Bibles with me this morning, we're going to be in two main books, 1 Corinthians and also Galatians. Today, I want to answer the question, Is He Risen? And if you're already a Christian, how do you know that? How do we as Christians know that the story of Jesus' resurrection, the story of him coming back from the dead wasn't made up and added into the Jesus narrative later? Because that is a legitimate question. How do we as Christians know that stuff actually happened? And it's not just, you know what would be a really cool ending to the Jesus story? Let's not end it with him dead. Let's end it with him coming back to life. That would be a really great additive if they added it later. But the fact is, they didn't. And I want to show you this morning how you can know that the resurrection of Jesus is an actual historical event. So first, let me lay up the stakes. So here are the stakes. Christianity rises and falls on the resurrection itself. The Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 verse 14 said this, And if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless and so is your faith. Christianity rises and falls on whether this one event actually took place. If it didn't, then we're all wasting our time. And if it did, then we're all justified in our time. But there's no middle ground here. The question of Jesus' resurrection is a yes or a no. It's not a maybe. It's not a if I feel good that day. It's not a well, it's true for you, but true for me. No, if it's a historical event, it either occurred or it didn't. So I'd like to say it to you this way. If there was no resurrection, there is no Christianity. If there was no resurrection, there is no Christianity. If the resurrection did not happen, every one of us who claims to be a Christian is self-deluded. Or maybe not self-deluded, maybe you're just lied to by a bunch of people up here who look and talk like me. We've been lied to, we're deluded, we're delusional. We've been called a lot of things. If there was no resurrection, there is no Christianity. So I'd like to give you three facts about the life of Jesus that are historically undeniable facts. These three facts are accepted as true by the majority of scholars, whether they are Christian or not. In fact, these three facts come right out of a book written by an atheist about Jesus. So you can know for sure that these facts are totally true. Here's the first. Jesus lived. Jesus lived is a fact. Now there is a very, very small group of people who attempt to say that Jesus never actually lived and that his story was built on the myths of people who came before him. But I can tell you honestly through all the studying I've done, even the atheist scholars are like, that's a really weak argument. There is just too much evidence for this man who we call Jesus of Nazareth to claim that his story was entirely made up. So if the atheists are going to give me the fact that Jesus actually lived, we're going to take it. So if you were here this morning and you've ever wondered, it was Jesus a real person, 100% he really was. I've got books at home written by atheists who will absolutely prove Jesus really lived. He lived in first century Judea exactly as the Gospels claim they did. Second fact. Jesus died by crucifixion. This again is not up for debate. It is a historical reality. I grew up in Trenton, New Jersey, only a few miles from here. And I remember every winter we were taught the story of Washington crossing the Delaware on Christmas Eve. Of course, when you're a child, it sounds really cool. When you're an adult, you're like, wait a minute, Christmas Eve was cold. Like on the water, it's cold. We're Americans. We got up on Christmas Eve to beat people up. That's who we are. Okay. But I've never questioned whether that story was historical. I never questioned whether Washington wasn't a real person. I never questioned whether the Delaware River was a real place. I just was taught this is a historical event. Therefore it happened. Jesus dying by crucifixion is a historically medically reliable fact. Humans did not survive Roman crucifixion. They were good at it. They crucified people by the thousands. They knew how to extract every ounce of agony before letting someone die. There is no chance. There is no chance that Jesus of Nazareth survived the cross. He died. And then here's the third fact that even the atheists will grant is true. Jesus followers claimed he rose. Now that's a really interesting sentence. I got a word it that way because the atheist is not going to grant me that Jesus came back from the dead. Right? I get that. The atheist is not going to grant me that Jesus is God because atheist doesn't believe in God. But that is a historical fact. There is no way around the fact that the earliest Christians claimed Jesus rose from the dead. It is what started our faith at the very beginning and has maintained the singular foundational claim of Christianity. Just like the other two claims. This is a yes or no. Did they claim Jesus rose from the dead? 100% yes. Were they right? Is really the only question left. If I've confirmed that Jesus lived and I confirmed that Jesus died and I confirmed that his followers believed that he rose from the dead. The only question left is whether they're believable or not. And this is where all the debate happens. Right? Well, maybe the Bible was written hundreds of years later and they added in the resurrection story because they wanted him to be like the Greco pagan gods or the Egyptian gods or the Mithras gods. That's a legitimate accusation against Christianity. When I'm done today, you're going to understand how untrue that really is. But we should accept the reality that not everyone accepts the fact that Jesus rose from the dead. It's a pretty unique claim that in all of human history, there was this one dude and this one dude who lived a really long time ago who claimed he was God, who claimed to predict his death and resurrection then actually rose. Like that's a fantastic claim. And as Christians, we shouldn't back down that. I should say, yeah, that is that is 100% the claim that Christianity is based on. The only question is whether we're telling the truth. Okay, so the facts about Jesus, he lived, he died by crucifixion and his followers claim that he rose. But here's the problem. How do we know the resurrection story wasn't invented later to make Jesus into a God character? Because at the time that Jesus lived in the first century, there's lots of gods, right? There was Greco-Roman gods, there were Egyptian gods, there were Canaanite gods. Jesus was not the only God on the scene. So how do we know for sure that the resurrection story is historical and wasn't invented later? I'm going to give you two pieces of evidence. I call them the timeline and the witness list. The timeline and the witness list. So first, let's talk about the timeline. If you have your Bibles, turn with me to the book of Galatians chapter 1. Galatians chapter 1. I want to show you Galatians chapter 1 verse 18. We're going to talk about the timeline of the book of Galatians. While you're turning to Galatians 1, let me explain to you why I'm going to do it this way. So the New Testament is comprised of multiple pieces of writing, right? Multiple books, 26 of them in fact, comprise what you and I call the New Testament today. Some of those books are up for debate who wrote them. Some of those books are up for debate when they were written. Some of the New Testament books are not debatable. So even the atheist scholars, the non-believing Jewish Christian Islamic scholars, those people who are history students of the New Testament or the time of the New Testament, they're going to grant me certain books are 100% authentic. 1 Corinthians and Galatians are two of the books written by the Apostle Paul that are unquestionable in their authenticity. So I specifically chose to only use Bible passages today that are accepted by atheist scholars to make my argument so that you can't come back at me and say, Well, you know, you're a pastor, you're a Christian, so of course you believe that the whole Bible is true. No, I don't even need the whole Bible. I just need these two books to make my point. And the atheist scholar is going to grant that the Apostle Paul was a real dude and he actually wrote this passage we're about to read here. So this is why I've limited our scope to only talking about information that even people who don't believe in Jesus understand is true. So you can't come back later and say, well, of course you're a Christian. Of course you believe that. No, this book is considered authentic even by the atheist scholars. So look at this, Genesis 1, 18. Then after three years, I went up to Jerusalem to get acquainted with Cephas and stayed with him 15 days. Right? So if you were to read the whole opening of chapter 1, what Paul is explaining is his conversion experience. Paul is explaining how he came to believe in Jesus and he's explaining the timeline of how his faith started. So the then after three years is after three years after he met Jesus the first time. The book of Acts describes that as the Damascus Road experience. Paul later describes it in other writings. Three years after Paul met Jesus on the Damascus Road, then he goes up to Jerusalem to get acquainted with Cephas. That's the other name for Peter and he stays with him 15 days. So if you have your Bibles, I want you to highlight underline that word three years. Then after three years in a minute, we're going to do a little bit of math. So all you math majors, I'm going to need your help. So Genesis chapter 1 verse 18. Notice there's three years there. Now turn to Galatians chapter 2 verse 1. Just a few verses later Galatians 2 1. Then after 14 years, I went up again to Jerusalem this time to see Barnabas. So I want you to underline or highlight long press 14 years. So all of you guys who are better at math than me, what's 3 plus 14? 17. I just need to double check. I'm not the homeschool teacher at my house. I got to check to make sure with the homeschool teacher. I'm pretty sure 3 plus 14 equals 17. You didn't think you were going to do math when you came to church. Got to keep you on your toes. So 3 plus 14 equals 17. We agree so far. Now the dating of the book of Galatians is incredibly important here. So the book of Galatians was written in AD 49. So now those of you who are super good at math, I want you to do me a favor and if you subtract 17 from 49, what number do you get? You're sure? You're like totally sure. All right, 32. So if I subtract 17 from 49, I get 32. Dan says it's 32. So I'm going to go with it, right? I'm not good at math. 32. Here's why. Here's why I want you to know that. If Paul writes the book in AD 49 and he said three years after I got saved this, then 14 years after I got saved that and I add those two numbers together and I subtract it from when he wrote the book. That means Paul got saved in year 32. Okay, you following me? So the Apostle Paul, the man that we call the Apostle Paul, he came to Jesus in AD 32. Now that's going to be super important because Jesus, so there's two different dates for when the resurrection occurred, for when the crucifixion of Jesus and the resurrection occurred. There's only two possible dates in the entire decade of the AD 30s when a Sabbath falls on a Friday at the right time, in the right season because the Jewish calendar is loony solar, there's a whole lot of technical to it. But this is what I need to understand. There's only two possible dates for the resurrection. One of them is in AD 33, the other is in AD 30. So let me ask you a simple question. Is Paul capable of coming to faith in Christ in AD 32 if Jesus isn't crucified until AD 33? No. Why? Because Jesus hasn't been crucified yet. If Jesus were crucified in AD 33, how does the Apostle Paul come to see him in his risen form in AD 32 a year before that? Does that make sense to everybody? I know you didn't expect to come to church and get math, but I need you to understand this and this is why. If I rule out AD 33 as the date for the crucifixion and resurrection, which I think we should based on the simple math that I just shared with you. Galatians gives us 17 years, 17 minus 49 is 32. Jesus has to rise before Paul can believe in him as the Savior, which means that Jesus was crucified in AD 30. So now let's take it a step further. In AD 30, when was Passover? Right? Because Jesus was crucified on Passover and that would be a Friday. So guess what? I did the Google machines and here's what I can now tell you. Here's the Easter timeline. The crucifixion of Jesus happened on Friday, April the 7th, AD 30 and the resurrection happened on Sunday, April the 9th, AD 30. Anybody look at your watch. What's today's date? April the 9th. That means Jesus rose from the grave today, 1,993 years ago to the day. So just let that sink in for a minute. Yep. Why? And here's how I did that. Now somebody in their mind is going, wait a minute. We live in a Gregorian calendar and that wasn't invented until a few hundred years later. So how did I do that? You're totally right. Here's what I did. The Jewish calendar has not stopped since the time of the Jewish Testament to now. So what I did was I found Passover in the Jewish calendar in AD 30 and then I converted it back to our Gregorian calendar that you and I use today. Was there an April 9th in AD 30? No, because they were still in the Jewish calendar. But since the Jewish calendar hasn't stopped, all I did was go, okay, well just because our Gregorian calendar wasn't invented until like the 200s, that doesn't mean there wasn't time. So I tracked back and looked at what would the date in our calendar been if Jesus rose from the grave. Jesus rose on Sunday, April the 9th, AD 30, this morning, 1993 years ago. Now it feels like history, doesn't it? Now that I can put a day and a month and a date on it, all of a sudden we're not talking about something that I just choose to believe in. I didn't just pick Jesus out of the litany of God's. I picked the one faith that has been historical from the beginning. I'm gonna make a t-shirt that says that. Resurrection was Sunday, April the 9th, AD 30. And how did I get there? I looked at Galatians. I figured out when Paul got saved. Then the resurrection has to happen before that because Paul can't believe in a Jesus who's not risen. There's only one other date possible in the AD 30s and that's the year 30. And then Jim would just look up Passover in the year AD 30 and Passover was Friday, April the 7th. That would have been the day Jesus died. And then resurrection Sunday is April the 9th. This isn't in your notes, but just in case anybody wants to know, since the New Testament tells me that the ascension happened 40 days after Jesus' resurrection, the ascension happened on Friday, May the 9th, or May 19th, AD 30, and Pentecost, the day that the Christian church was born, was Monday, May 29th, AD 30. All of those are simple calculations based on how the book of Acts describes the distance between the events. Jesus ascended 40 days after his resurrection, and then 10 days after that Pentecost happens, the Holy Spirit comes down, and now Christianity is born. When you start putting dates on a calendar, it feels an awful lot like history and it stops feeling like religion. This is how I know Jesus rose. Now, there's one other question that really needs to be asked. Just because I have a timeline and just because I can tell you to the date when Jesus rose, we still have to ask the question, how do I know Paul was telling the truth? How do we know? Paul didn't just make it all up. That is 100% an accusation that's made against Christianity. The Apostle Paul wanted power, he wanted money, he wanted these things, and so he invented the story of the resurrection, and then the rest of the disciples went along with it, but instead of power, he got crucified and killed. His plan didn't really work out right. But see, it's really easy to throw shade 1993 years later at what someone who lived then's accusation would be. So here's how I can also tell you that Paul's not lying. Turn with me in your Bibles to the book of 1 Corinthians chapter 15. 1 Corinthians is another book that is designated as 100% authentic even by atheist scholars. So I'm not cheating. I'm not looking through the eyes of faith. I am using the eyes of professional historians looking at historical documents. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. I want to read verses 3 through 8, and then I want to point this out. So starting in verse 3, that he appeared to Cephas and then to the 12. After that, he appeared to more than 500 of brothers and sisters at the same time, most of whom are still living though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the Apostles, and last of all, he appeared to me also as to one abnormally born. Now I just want you to look at that passage for a second, and I want you to see something. If I start in verses 3 and 4, Paul establishes the facts that we just talked about, right? Jesus lived, Jesus died, his followers claim he rose. Paul quotes all three facts, but he adds a very important detail. Look at verse 5. We're going to list off the number of witnesses that Paul claims have seen Jesus. Number 1, Cephas, that's Peter. Then the 12 as a group. After that, a group of 500 people, most of which are still alive. Then James, then the rest of the Apostles, and then Paul himself. So if I just use this passage, Paul has named 6 different people or groups who are witnesses to the resurrected Jesus. He's not just claiming himself. He's not just claiming himself. He's claiming that these 6 other people and groups saw Jesus. He's basically saying, Eric, go check for yourself. If you don't believe me, go to Peter, go to James, go to the 500, go to the 12. I'm not the only one who's seeing this, y'all. Because if Paul was the only one, then we could claim he was just crazy. He was just tripping, he was just hallucinating. 500 people at one time? Different groups at different places? And he gives you all of these witnesses. To me, it feels an awful lot like I whisked his testimony, giving you a witness list. That's why I refer to this as the Corinthian witness list. So why do I believe that we should trust Paul? Well, let me give you an example. I'm going to, if you don't want to raise your hand at this next question, you don't have to because it's going to make you feel old. How many people in this room were alive the morning of 9-11? Okay, put your hand down. How many of you remember where you were the morning of 9-11? Right? Okay, put your hand down. What if I told you, if I stood up here in my pastor suit with my microphone and I told you, all of you have been lied to, that 9-11 was not Middle Eastern terrorists with airplanes. It was Mexican terrorists with helicopters. And you've all been lied to. No, I'm not meaning to be funny. I mean to be very serious. If I tried to tell you that, why do you not believe me? Because we witnessed it. We saw it, right? The number of people who just put their hands up. I was alive the day that happened. You can't lie to me when I know what happened. Now, how do I know? I personally had a relative who worked in Manhattan that day. My cousin Melissa was difficult to get a hold of for almost 36 hours because the cell phone towers in downtown New York were jammed. I spoke to my cousin within 48 hours of the event itself. She witnessed it. But more than that, I have a very good friend who gave me permission to use his name this morning. I have a friend by the name of Joe Pescador from Virginia, from where he was when I lived in Virginia. On 9-11, my friend Joe was the New York City safety officer. While the rubble was still burning, he was at the feet of the towers rescuing the New Yorkers who were trapped in there. He has the photographs to show him pulling bodies and humans out of the rubble of 9-11. So I personally spoke to a witness who witnessed the event. That's how you can't lie to me. That's how you can't come back and claim, well, well, you really don't know. I do know, bro. I totally know. I have spoken to the witnesses who saw the event. If you would not let me lie to you about 9-11, why do we assume Paul is lying about the resurrection when he lists all of the people who saw it? James P. I'm going to step back. See, I made a really big point, didn't I? Well, Ken sees my mic. Okay, there we go. I got really excited. Jesus wanted you to know that Peter saw the resurrection. But this is how I know that Paul can't be lying. Remember the timeline. Paul got saved a maximum of about 18 months after the resurrection. He's writing the book of Galatians 17 years after that. Within 20 years of the resurrection, Paul is listing the people who are still alive who saw it. You can't lie about an event while the living witnesses who saw it were there. I can't lie to you about 9-11 because of the number of us in this room who were alive that morning, who remember the events. Many of us may have like me spoken to firsthand witnesses of the event. This is exactly what Paul is saying in 1 Corinthians 15. He's saying, listen, don't take my word for it. I saw it. I know what I saw and so did Peter and so did James and so did the 500 and so did the Apostles and so did the 12. If you don't take my word for it, bro, go check the facts. So now I get back to Jesus lived, Jesus died, his followers claim that he rose. How do I know for sure that the resurrection of Jesus is historical? Because you can't lie about a historical event when the witnesses are still living to prove you wrong. Now keep in mind, Christianity wasn't very popular in its first 100 years. The Jews had it out for us. The Romans had it out for us. If there was a single witness who could have produced the body of Jesus, our entire faith would be over. 1993 years and nobody's ever found the body of Jesus. That's all they needed to do. The Jews could have used the wrong tomb theory and produce the body of Jesus. They didn't. The Romans could have used the hallucination theory. You guys just hallucinated. He's really dead over there. They didn't trust me. They looked. They tried. They tried to find the counterfactual evidence and it doesn't exist. Now, if you're still not convinced, you may be thinking to yourself, well, okay. So your historical argument makes sense, but there's really no scientific evidence to prove that Jesus came back from the dead. And since we know that dead people stay dead, it's more reasonable. I mean, this is legitimately a real point. People want to say, because what we as Christians are saying is for all of human history, every single human being who's ever lived, died and stayed dead. Except for the one that you claim is the Son of God. That's a bold claim. That's a big claim. How do you possibly put your faith in that when every other human who's ever lived dead people stay dead? And I go, well, how can I possibly know anything about George Washington? Eyewitness testimony. That's really all history is, is eyewitness testimony. Can you go back and give me forensic evidence that Washington crossed the Delaware? Can you give me forensic? Can you give me video footage of Caesar crossing the Rubicon? Can you give me video footage of Genghis Khan and his horsemen coming all the way across Asia? No, you can't. Why? Because all we have is history. But we don't have a problem accepting those big names. If you accept that you understand anything about Genghis Khan, Julius Caesar and Alexander the Great, here's the big ring. There is more historical evidence for the life of Jesus of Nazareth than all three of those men. And no one questions their existence. No one questions their stories. There's more written evidence about the resurrection of Jesus than Alexander the Great crossing the Alps. How many remember that story from from from school or Caesar crossing the Rubicon? How many remember that story? There is more historical evidence that Jesus of Nazareth rose from the grave. Than anything else. So how do I know for sure? Here's here's your takeaway. Here's how I know. The first century timeline and the witness list provide the evidence for the truth of Jesus resurrection or the resurrection event. Jesus rose. Remember going in the three facts were uncontestable. Jesus lived. Jesus died. His followers claimed he rose. We have first century, multiply attested atheist granted evidence. That in my opinion, if you're going to then come at me and say, well, I still think that the resurrection event was was made up then bro. You're going to have to come with evidence. I'm not going to take your accusation as at face value because I didn't I didn't make I didn't ask you to just believe in the resurrection because I believe in it. I asked you to believe in the resurrection because I have historical evidence to prove that it happened and it makes more reasonable sense of the evidence. If I listed all of the witness just everybody in this room who was there for 9-11. I mean, I was such a horrible day in our country's living memory that we remember it. And we were alive that day to recall those events. Every single person who was alive the day Jesus resurrected was a witness either. They witnessed the resurrection or they witnessed the lack of a resurrection, but they were still alive that day. You could have asked just think about this. What about like Mary and Martha's children? Mary and Martha the sisters of Lazarus. You don't think they told their kids. Oh my gosh, this guy named Jesus. He totally raised your uncle last from the dead one day. It was so cool. You don't think people pass those stories down in history the things that Jesus did. Why do you think we have such a plethora of historical records today? The resurrection of Jesus is an actual historical event. It occurred on April the 9th the year AD Sunday, April the 9th, AD 30. The only question that I have left to ask you is what are you going to do with that information? Now you could sit here and go, okay Pastor Bill that was a cool history lesson, but I still don't believe that Jesus was God. Okay, then please explain the witness evidence. Please explain why do we believe that Jesus is God? He claimed to be God. He predicted his resurrection and then he guaranteed and delivered. If that's not believable, show me the evidence for where you're at. It is my contention that the resurrection of Jesus is exactly the event that we as Christians claim that it is. And the question to is he risen is yes. Based on only, I mean I could have used a bunch of different arguments, but I like this one because it's numerical. It's historical. There's no doubt that Paul wrote these letters. There's no doubt the math that works out for when the resurrection happened. The only question I have left to ask you is if Jesus really is the son of God who rose from the dead. Have you placed your faith in him or is he just a historical figure? Like Alexander the Great, like Caesar, and like Genghis Khan. Is he in your life the Messiah, Savior, King? Or is he just some guy that we talk about at church?