Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us and being a part of our service today. For all of you who are joining us on our online campus, thank you for joining us for worship and for engaging and not just watching. Before I came on stage this morning, I was in the back in our tech booth. We now have a computer where I can see how many people are actually joining us online and engaging in live chat. And it's just, it's very exciting to see. So thank you for being a part of our service. Today we begin a completely new series. And I want to give a couple of caveats as we get into this. Number one, because this was a highly requested topic. So if you are new to Catalyst, I take sermon or teaching topic requests during the month of September each year. And then I use those requests in combination with what I'm praying about, what I'm thinking about, what I talk with about the elders. And that's how I build the annual teaching calendar for what we're going to study. Well, last year, one of the most requested topics actually had been two years ago for last year's teaching series was to talk about marriage and family. But because we were in the book of Revelation and we ended up having to split it and do extra Revelation last year, the marriage and family series was cut from last year's calendar and was moved to this year's calendar. So that's why those of you who asked for this last year, that's why we didn't do it, is because Revelation ended up taking longer. And I didn't want to skimp on finishing a book of the Bible. So we finished that. And now I moved the marriage and family series to this year. The second thing I need you to understand is this is a topical series. So typically when you come to Catalyst, I'm going to give you an introduction. We're going to go to a specific passage of scripture. We'll usually do the big Bible story to review how we got to that passage. Then we read the passage. Then we go through the passage. That's called exegetical or textual based preaching. That is how preaching is done. But I cannot do that method for this series. And the reason is I can probably find one passage that talks about only one thing. But that doesn't tell you what all of scripture shows about one thing. So we're going to do a topical series. Does that mean that I'm not using the text of the Bible? No, I'm totally going to use the text of the Bible. What that means though is I had to search the entire Bible to try to synthesize and bring together for you. How can I in 45 minutes give you a picture of what does the entire Bible say about a singular given topic? So this morning we are going to look at the topic of family. And I know that's a giant word and there's a lot to unpack within that. Which is why this is the starter message for the rest of this series. This week we're going to talk about what does the Bible say about family. Next week, what does the Bible say about marriage? The week after that, what does the Bible say about husbandry? The week after that, what does the Bible say about wifery? And half of you are asking is wifery an English word? No, it's not. But the reason it's not, I looked it up, there is no such equivalent word for wives as husbandry. Husbandry exists on its own as an English word. But there is no feminine version of husbandry. So for the rest of this series we're going to invent a word. We're going to use wifery because I don't know what else to use. And then finally, what does the Bible say about being a child? Being a child of a parent. Not just when you are under the age of 18. But does scripture give any insights to how should I be an adult child of my parents? So that's where we're going. Let me give you the key thought that's going to hold all of these messages together. Here it is. The Bible presents family as a multi-relational, or as the multi-relational foundation of who we are as God's image bearers. And I tried to craft that sentence to get everything I needed to get in it. The Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation of who we are as God's image bearers. And briefly, what does it mean to be an image bearer? If we go all the way back to the book of Genesis. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. And then onto the earth He placed two human beings, Adam and Eve. That's all the big Bible story you get for today. So when God created Adam and Eve, God said, let us make man, that does not just mean Adam, but let us make humans, in our image. And in the very beginning, and we're going to get into this more as we go through the series, God creates man, but then He says it's not good for man to be alone. So God creates Eve, the azer, or the forever partner for Adam, which by the way, Adam is the Hebrew word for human. So that's where He gets His name from. And in doing so, God not only creates the first marriage, but He creates the first family. Because He tells Adam and Eve, by the way, go, be fruitful and multiply. So this is where we start. And the question that I want to try to answer for you here in the next little bit, hopefully 45 minutes or less, is how does the Bible describe family? How does the Bible describe family? Now, I titled this morning's sermon, The Family Foundation, because it is my argument for you this morning that family is absolutely foundational to understanding who we are and what Scripture teaches. If we do not have appropriate view of family, there are so many things in Scripture that we're going to get wrong. So here's probably the only time you're going to hear me say this next sentence. You ready? Today I have seven points to share with you, and we're going to get through them in 45 minutes. Right? Jerry, half of you are going, there's no way. I have a clock here, Jerry, to try and make sure I get through it. So here we go. Number one, family is the foundation of society. From a biblical perspective, family is the foundation of society. Now, we're going to do a lot of bouncing around in your Bibles today, so you are free to bounce around with me. But if any of you would like a copy of my notes afterwards, when we get down to using the Connect card, all you have to do is say, pastor, will you please email me a copy of today's notes, and I will send it to you. We have several people who do that on a regular basis. Not ashamed. You can have all my notes. So let's get into this. Family is the foundation of society. If you look in Genesis chapter one, specifically verses 27 and 28, we're jumping into the very beginning of creation. Genesis chapter one, 27 and 28. So God created mankind in his own image. In the image of God, he created them. Male and female, he created them. Male and female, he created them. God blessed them and said to them, be fruitful and increase in number. Fill the earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky and over every living creature that moves on the ground. So this is God Himself, the Creator, speaking to Adam and Eve. I need you to understand that. Look at all the thems, just in 27 and 28. This is not God created Adam in his image and Eve came later. That is incorrect. So God created mankind. All of humans he created in his own image. This is where we get the theological concept that you and I today are image bearers of God. It does not matter what kind of human you are. It doesn't matter if you're a male human or a female human. You are an image bearer of your Creator because you are a descendant from the original line of humans that were created to be image bearers. I also need you to notice that the male and female reflect the image of God. It's not that Adam is the image of God and Eve is the image of Adam. No, male and female are the image of God. And then 28, be fruitful and increase in number. I'm trying to figure out how to give you the international bill version of this that I'm allowed to say on camera. Be married, do married things, have babies. See, look, the ADHD had to trap everything else that was in my brain and say it that way. Be married, do married things, and have babies. Implicitly in the foundation of all that God said, and keep in mind this is Genesis 1. This is pre-sin. There is no sin yet. This is God's very good creation. Do married things and have babies. Why? Implicitly God is establishing the first family by giving the first parents instructions to have children. That's why family is the foundation of society. If you were unsure of it, turn over to Genesis chapter 9 verses 1 and 2. Let's look at God's instructions to Noah after the flood. So sin shows up, God sends a flood, humanity gets a restart with the righteous man named Noah. And in Genesis chapter 9 verses 1 and 2, God says this to Noah. Then God blessed Noah and his sons saying to them, be fruitful and increase in number. Fill the earth. The fear and dread of you will fall on the beasts of the earth, on all the birds of the sky, and on every creature that moves on the ground and all the fish in the sea, they are given into your hands. I wanted you to see, and if I had kept going, I had to trim a lot for this sermon because I'm trying to get through seven things. If you read Genesis 1 and then Genesis 9, you will see a very huge parallel between the original instructions given to our very first humans and the instructions given to Noah. Family is mentioned, our relationship to animal kind is mentioned, and I cut it from the sermon, but also our relationship to food that grows on the planet is mentioned in Genesis 1 and again in Genesis 9. Family was always intended to be the foundation of human society. Why? Because it is through family that more humans get made, and more humans are what build the future, what build society. It was always God's plan that family would be foundational to society. Just look past the past several thousand years of human history and look at what happens to societies that devalue the family unit. They eventually implode and eat themselves. The Greeks did it, the Romans did it, the Ottomans did it, the Turks did it. You know, as soon as the foundation of family erodes and individualism rises to its ultimate height, that I am more important than the family unit that I come from, the very bonds that God gave us to build society are taken away. So family is the foundation of society. Point number two, family is the foundation of faith. Family is the foundation of faith. Go forward in your Bible some more to the book of Deuteronomy, specifically chapter six, Deuteronomy 6. While you're turning there, I'll give you the back story. So by the time of Deuteronomy, God's people have been rescued from Egypt in the Moses story. They made it to Sinai. The law came down from Sinai, but they were disobedient. They wandered in the wilderness for how many years? For 40 years. And then the book of Deuteronomy comes along. So Deuteronomy literally means second law. This is Moses repeating the instructions of God to the children who are about to inherit the promised land, some of whom probably walked out of Egypt but have been wandering for 40 years. The entire adult generation that could not go in the promised land because of their disobedience, they died off in the wilderness. And God is now repeating the law, repeating his intentions to his people entering into the promised land. Deuteronomy chapter six, let's just look at verses six and seven. These commandments that I give to you today are to be on your hearts. Impress them on your children. Talk about them when you sit at home, when you walk along the road, and when you lie down and get up. Now, this is just a small part of what is typically called the Shema, or the Shema, which is foundational to the Jewish faith. Hear, O Israel, the Lord your God, the Lord is one. And then it goes on. But I specifically wanted you to see here verses six and seven. These commandments, not these suggestions, not these ideas, not these if you get around to it. These commandments that I give you today are to be on your hearts. I'm speaking to the parents. Then the beginning of verse seven, impress them on your children. The key mechanism for which God intended faith to be passed down is within the family unit. So now I'm going to say something that typically doesn't get said in church. Parents, those of you who are parents, who are either in this room or those who are watching me online. It is not mine and Pastor Tyler's job to teach your children to love Jesus. It is not Pastor Tyler and mine's job to teach your children to read the Word. It is not Pastor Tyler and mine's job to teach your children to obey the Holy Spirit. It is your job. It is our job to prepare you and make you feel adequate and confident to do your job. But so many times in the American church, we pass off the responsibility to spiritually guide children to the church. Let's just give the teenagers to Pastor Tyler and give him a budget for pizza and games. And somehow my children will come out wanting to obey the Holy Spirit more than their own propensity to sin. Does that sound like a winning plan to you? I don't care how good the pizza is. And listen, this fat guy knows his pizza, okay? Pastor Tyler cannot do miracles in one hour or two hours a week when your children live at home with you. Mothers and fathers, it is your job to raise your children, not ours. It's Pastor Tyler and myself and the other elders and the other leaders in our church, the deacons. It is our job to come around you, to prepare you, to support you, to be a resource for you. Absolutely. I am not trying to shirk my holy responsibility to help you lead your family. But please do not blame me when your children do not love God. I know that's a hard truth. But it's one that needs to be said because family is foundational to the faith. And if you were just thinking that perhaps that's only an Old Testament thing, let's not. Let's go to the book of Ephesians chapter 6, verse 4. Dads, I think every one of you should memorize this verse. It is one of the most powerful verses when it comes to fatherhood or fathering that I know of. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 4. Fathers, how many of you in this room are fathers? Just raise your hand. Let me call you out. Okay, every one of you just raise your hand. This is to you, directly at you. Fathers, do not exasperate your children. Instead, bring them up in the training and instruction of the Lord. Dads, it is your divine duty to raise your children to love God, to raise your children to read the Word, to raise your children to know the Word. It is my divine duty to see that you are prepared for your duty. It is Pastor Tyler's divine duty, our elders, our deacons. We're here to help you. I am not here to do it for you. And that's Old Testament and New Testament. Why? Because God's design for family is not only that it is foundational to society, but it is absolutely foundational to the passing on of our faith. To quote my mentor, Pastor Rick, who I got to call this week, hear his voice on the phone was fantastic. Those of you who are here for my very, very first Sunday at Catalyst may remember that the elders without telling me surprised me by flying Pastor Rick here. And he was the speaker on my installation Sunday. When I got up all tear-filled and ran across the building and just like buried myself in this massive man's chest. Pastor Rick always would teach me. He said, Bill, remember the Christian faith is one generation away from extinction. And we've existed that way for 2,000 years. As soon as one generation of parents doesn't find it important to raise their children, to love Jesus and love his Word, Christianity will die. And we've existed on that knife's edge for almost 2,000 years. And we're still going and we're still kicking it. And the fact that there are families in our church today, the fact that our children's check-in system is checking in children and putting them downstairs to learn the Word, the fact that you're here, some of you have your children in this very room sitting with you says that we're doing the right thing. So family or family is foundational to faith. Number 3, family is the foundation of marriage. And I know that sounds backwards, right? You're saying, wait a minute, Pastor, isn't marriage the foundation of family? No, marriage is the beginning of a new family. But family is the foundation of why we have marriage. Take a look at Genesis, now we're going to go back. Genesis chapter 2, verses 24 and 25. We'll get into this a little deeper in the marriage sermon, but for now I just need to establish the point. Family is the foundation of marriage. That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife and they become one flesh. And Adam and his wife were both naked and they felt no shame. That is the installation of the very first marriage. The first husband, the first wife, the first marital relationship. But now let's trust forward to Genesis 24, not just Genesis 2, verse 24, but Genesis chapter 24. I want you to see this. Genesis chapter 4, let's just look at the first four verses. Abraham was now very old and the Lord had blessed him in every way. So God has made his covenant with Abraham. Abraham has grown up. He's very old, he's very blessed. Verse 2 of chapter 24. He said to the senior servant in his household, pop quiz, does anybody know the name of Abraham's senior servant? Begins with an E. Oh, close, it's Eleazar, but good guess. So he said to his senior servant, guys, I think Eleazar is only mentioned in like one verse of scripture, so it's one of those random, like if you're ever at like biblical bar trivia, just remember, Eleazar and you'll get points. So he said to his senior servant in his household, the one in charge of all that he had put your hand under my thigh. We had a really fun Bible study about that in men's fraternity. I'll let you guys just sit with that one. I want you to swear by the Lord, the God of heaven and the God of earth, that you will not get a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites among who I am living, but go to my country, to my own relatives, and get a wife for my son, Isaac. Abraham understood that whoever his son marries will be the foundation on which the next generation of his family is built. That's why his marriage is the foundation for Isaac's marriage, but Isaac's marriage is the foundation of the parental relationship that would bring about Jacob and Esau. So family has to be key in this idea of how things are passed down, so much so that Abraham absolutely refused to allow his son to marry any of the daughters of the Canaanites. No, no, no, no. Go back to my tribe. Go back and find a wife worthy of my son who will be the right kind of faith, who will be the right kind of woman. And some of you may read this passage and go, man, that is super controlling. I will tell you, and I've said this out loud, so I'll say it from here. It doesn't matter. If I had the opportunity to arrange marriages for all of my children, I would do so without hesitation. I wouldn't blink if I had the opportunity to seek out and find the exact right family and the exact right young man for my Zola and young woman for my Micah and the young man for my Emily. I would do it without hesitation. Why? Because that person is going to raise my grandchildren, and I want my grandchildren to know Jesus. So I need to make sure that if I had any chance to influence the person who will become the father or the mother of my very grandchildren, I want my grandchildren to know Jesus. I want my grandchildren to be with us in the next life, in the kingdom. And that starts by thinking about your family before your children start dating. Just saying. Just think it through a little bit. I tell Zola all the time, be careful who you marry, because you're going to share my grandchildren with whoever that guy's parents are. Selfishly, I'm like, can we marry a guy who doesn't have a great relationship with his dad? So I get more time with my grandkids. Can we find one of those? The problem is if we find a guy who doesn't have a great relationship with his dad, he might not be a great dad. So we need a little bit of both. So if I got to share my grandkids every other Christmas to make sure they have a godly dad, great. Or just give us somebody who Jesus will totally transform his life. Abraham did this all the way back in Genesis 24. He knew that the success of his family's faith relied on finding the right wife for his son. And so they had to go all the way back. And you can keep reading this. I mean, it's just epic, wonderful tale. Read the story of the patriarchs. And he finds Rebecca caring for his father's sheep, watering the sheep. Finds Rebecca serving in her father's household. And Eliezer shows up and he is just throwing the bling. And here's gold and here's this. And Rebecca is like, I will go with you sight unseen. I believe this is God. And she goes. And it's amazing. And it's fantastic. Because family was the foundation. Abraham thought ahead. And family was the foundation of how he built that marriage. Number four. Family is the foundation of God's covenant with Israel. Now we're going to get a little more theological. Right? Family is the foundation of God's covenant with Israel. Genesis chapter 17 verses 7 and 8. I will establish my covenant as an everlasting covenant between me, God speaking. Between me and you and your descendants after you for generations to come. To be your God and the God of your descendants after you. The whole land of Canaan where you now reside as a foreigner. I will give as an everlasting possession to you and your descendants after you. And I will be their God. God's working on a time scale that we can't even fathom. God is playing like multi-level Star Trek chess. And the rest of us are just still playing checkers. He makes a covenant. And family is foundational to his covenant with the nation of Israel. And we see that the covenant comes to Abraham. Abraham has two sons. It's only repeated to one of them. He has two sons. It's only repeated to the younger. And then he has 12 sons and it's given to them. And it's through family that the entire Abrahamic covenant is inherited. And that's super important if you want to understand the Abrahamic covenant and theologically how we get to the New Testament. But just stop for a second. If family wasn't important, if family didn't matter. If the Abrahamic covenant was built on an individualistic idea like most of our modern day Christianity. Right? You're saved individually and I'm saved individually. And you get salvation and you get salvation and you get salvation. Right? If everything was individual, this covenant wouldn't work. Because God clearly says, I will establish my covenant, this is verse 7, as a covenant between me and you and your descendants after you. Family and descendancy is foundational to God's covenant with all of Israel. And you can see that if we fast forward. I know it's repeated to Isaac. I'm going to skip that one and go to Genesis 35 verses 10 through 12. And God said to him, your name is Jacob, but will no longer be called Jacob. Your name will be Israel. So where God changes Jacob's name. 35, 10, this is 11. And God said to him, I am God Almighty. Be fruitful, increase in number. A nation and a community of nations will come from you. And kings will be among your descendants. The land that I gave to Abraham and Isaac, I also give to you. And I will give this land to your descendants after you. Anybody who doesn't think that the land of Israel was deeded to the descendants of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob as an everlasting covenant. It's just simply not reading scripture plainly. Well, how does God intend to fulfill his promises if family isn't foundational to the Abrahamic covenant? However, we can continue forward. Point number five, family is foundational to how God relates to you and I today. Let's take a look at Matthew. Now we're going to go to the New Testament first. Matthew chapter one, verses 24 and 25. This is when the angel is speaking to Joseph the carpenter about Jesus being born. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel the Lord had commanded him. And he took Mary home as his wife. 25. But he did not consummate their marriage until she gave birth to a son and he gave him the name Jesus. I know we read this passage like all the time at Christmas and we just immediately go to the Christmas story and, you know, the swaddled baby Jesus in the manger. But does it occur to you? If there were no family. I mean, Jesus is God. Jesus could have made himself God incarnate by creating a sinless body in the same way that he created Adam's body. Jesus could have just beamed himself into creation as a fully grown man, the God man, but he didn't do that. Jesus chose in his divine authority to be born into a family. Why? Well, I would submit to you that he understood all that comes out of the Old Testament, all of the promises that are pointing forward to the Messiah and the son of David from the line of David to restore the throne. All of those things fully rely on family. If family didn't exist, Jesus would not have been able to fulfill all of the outstanding promises of the Old Testament. If family wasn't a thing and it wasn't important, Jesus would not be the promised Messiah. He would not fulfill the very promises he himself gave in the Old Testament or fulfilled in him being born into a family. We were watching a reel at my house last night and it occurred to me that the person who was spouting these very heretical thoughts, which I don't know about you. Does anybody else's family sit around at 11 o'clock at night and just watch heretical reels and yell at each other in the living room and go, oh my gosh, how crazy are these people? We do that apparently. That's what we did last night for like 30 minutes. Melanie and Zola, myself and Micah comes in and we're all just yelling, how do these people not get it? And one of the things that this person got wrong was why did Jesus, why was Jesus born into creation? The person in the reel was trying to espouse the idea that Jesus was born in creation because he wanted to experience what it meant to be human. Really? You're literally the divine Logos, the eternal God who created everything, but you were at a loss to experience humanity. That makes no sense to me. What that is is a very human focused theology that we are the center of God's story, not God is the center of God's story. Jesus came and was born so that he could fulfill scripture. He fulfilled promises. He also fulfilled the payment for sin. Jesus came to fix the story that we willingly broke as humans. He didn't come just because he felt like he needed to be a person. That's so, so human centered. But what I will say is family is foundational to how Jesus relates to us because Jesus himself as the walking, talking, miracle working God man was born into a family. Now, we're going to rewind all the way back to Exodus. I want to show you another way that family is foundational, how God relates to us from the Old Testament. Exodus chapter 4 verses 22 and 23, Moses standing before Pharaoh. This is the very famous, let my people go speech. This is what it says, Exodus 24. Then say to Pharaoh. So this is God telling Moses what to say to Pharaoh. This is what the Lord says. Israel is my firstborn son, and I told you, let my son go so he may worship me. But you refused to let him go. So I will kill your firstborn son. You ever wonder why we call God our heavenly father? Because of this passage right here. If Israel is God's firstborn son, then just backtrack to relationship. What is God in relation to Israel? Their father. What is God in relation to Adam? His father. What is God in relation to Eve? Her father. Family is foundational to the way that God relates to us and to Old Testament Israel. If we let go of the importance of family, we are going to let go of all of this beautiful imagery from scripture of how God relates to us. Point number 6. Family is the foundation of the Christian relationship. Now we're going to dive into the New Testament church. Family is foundational to the proper understanding of the Christian relationship. Romans chapter 12 verse 1. Therefore I urge you, brothers and sisters, in view of God's mercy, to offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God, this is your true and proper worship. Very popular verse. But I want to key in on a single word. It's actually three words in the NIV translation, brothers and sisters. But in the Greek, it's one word, Adelphos. Actually here it would probably be Adelphoi. Different ending. And it literally means those who are related. Those who are of the same descendency. Those who are of the same family tree. Right? You ever notice old school preachers, you used to call them brother? People in church call each other brother and sister. Why? Because that's the way scripture refers to us. Can you imagine trying to understand how to treat other Christians if you had no concept of what a brother or sister was? Family is automatically foundational to the way that God relates to us. Family is automatically foundational to the way the New Testament wants us to understand our relationship to each other. Men, when you walked in here this morning, whether you are older than me or you are younger than me, the Bible calls me to treat you as my brother. Some of you are getting noogies after church. That seems right. Ladies, all of you who came to church, the Bible calls me to treat you like my sister. I could trash talk with you too. But just think about that for a second. How would we ever understand how to treat one another as fellow Christians if family wasn't already an established foundation on which scripture uses to describe to us how to treat one another? How am I supposed to know how to treat my brother Dan if I don't know what a brother is? That's why family has to be foundational. Not just for society. Not just for faith. Not just for understanding theologically things like the Abrahamic covenant. Family has to be foundational to our understanding of church or I lose the ability to know how to treat my brothers if I don't know what brothers are. And it's not just Romans chapter 12 verse 1. Let's look at 1 Timothy chapter 3, 14 and 15. Although I hope to come to you soon, I am writing you these instructions. So this is Paul writing to Timothy. I am writing you these instructions so that if I am delayed, you will know how people ought to conduct themselves in God's household, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and foundation of truth. When we come together as a church, we are all the kids and he is the dad. And I did not grow up with siblings. I have a half sister. She lives out west and I live here. So we only like lived under the same roof for a very short time when I was a child and she was a college student and I was hard and she put up with me a lot. So I didn't grow up with siblings. But I've learned a lot about siblings by observing my wife's relationship with her family and now observing my children's relationship with one another. And I have learned that God is merciful. God is totally merciful because I was not the right kid to have a sibling living in my house. I would have fought every single day. Good morning. Like absolutely. If I had a brother, we'd have tussled every single day nonstop. Like I do not understand how Megan and Jesse survive life having three boys. We would just be in like a cartoon where the boys are like, oh, I'm going to be a kid. Nerf guns, at dinner, under the table, shooting each other like for real. I'm so thankful that I grew up as an only child because I don't have to like go to jail for child abuse. But, you know, it's common. Like I've noticed it's common for siblings to fight. And yet we try to avoid conflict in the church. Like we're unholy when we have disagreements. Right. And yet we try to avoid conflict in the church like we're unholy when we have disagreements. Right? I don't know about you, when you go home, there's lots of disagreements. There's lots of fighting. And yet in the church, we're just supposed to figure out like everybody's just supposed to get along. Where's the brotherly sisterly tussling inside the church? You know why? Because we haven't figured out how to fight without sacrificing our unity to be right. We want to win the argument instead of having quality disagreement. We want to have quality discussion within Christian unity because you know what? You never get to tell God, you're no longer my dad. So we're stuck being related. If you are in the body of Christ, I hate to tell this to you, but we're going to be related for eternity. Maybe in my new body, once we get to the next life, we have glorified bodies, maybe my new body will be less ADHD than my current one. Because I don't think so. Which means you are stuck with ADHD, Pastor Bill, for an eternity. You're welcome. But why, I just see so many people, like culturally, we have this term called church hurt. But we don't have something called brother hurt or sister hurt. Like I watch my kids, they'll disagree, they'll fight. And then they'll get over it and they'll be like, man, you want to go get a milkshake? Yeah, okay. Right? Like that's family. But if we didn't know that, if I wasn't able to just use all of those super funny analogies about family, you would never understand what the church is supposed to look like. Family is foundational to how we understand one another. And then finally, point seven, look, I'm bringing it in. Point seven, family is foundational to the understanding of theological adoption. Now this one's going to get a little more theological in the New Testament. But when someone places their faith and trust in Christ, they become adopted into this family that you and I are a part of called the family of God. Right? We are children of God. That term adoption is an actual theological term. And it is the transfer from your family of origin to your family of destination. My oldest daughter is adopted. Right? That means she transferred from her family of origin to her family of destination. Something amazing that happened when we were going through this whole process, no, and I didn't ask my wife or my daughter to use this story. And they're both staring at me like, where are we going? So this is the fun part of having the mic. And they're both sitting there going, well, here we are now. Something amazing happened when the adoption was finalized. They gave us a brand new birth certificate. And on that birth certificate, it states that Melanie had Zola in a state we've never been in out west on her birthday. So that there's never a question about who her mommy and daddy are. That piece of paper is her legal birth certificate. We have it at the house. And I held that piece of paper and we all looked at it together. The amount of theological implications that rushed through my mind. Seeing this piece of paper and knowing that I missed the first 15 years of my daughter's life. But at the stroke of a pen, all of that time was erased. And it was as if she had been our child from day one. And I just missed all that stuff. If that is not the most beautiful portrait of salvation, I don't know what is. When we are transferred, we are theologically adopted. That's the technical term. When you are transferred into the family of God, your past no longer matters. It is as if you were born into this family from the very first day, you just missed a couple of Christmases. Which is why every time Zola tries to date somebody, she says, listen, you need to understand two things. Number one, we go to church. Number two, I'm not missing Christmas. I missed the first 15. We are not missing anymore. So you better be able to be in my family. And I'm like, yes. Why? Because she is our family. And now that piece of paper says no matter where she started, no matter what her history was, no matter the bumps and the bruises that took her to be here, she has been our child from day one even though I didn't hold her on day two. That's theologically rich. That's theologically deep. To understand that when God calls me his son. I was his son when I was wayward. I was his son when I was in my prodigal season. I was his son when I wasn't living for him. When he called me in the ministry in high school and I didn't want to do it because I'd rather have sex, drugs, rock and roll and cocaine. He was still his son. I just didn't know how valuable I was to him. If we don't... Again, if you and I did not have a shared tribal understanding of the word family, we would never understand the theological beauty of what being adopted by God really means. What being transferred from the kingdom of sin to the kingdom of Christ. Being transferred from a life lived for my own pleasure to a life lived belonging to my father. And all of the joy that comes with that and all of the brother sister relationships that come with that. Let's look at John chapter one verses 12 and 13. And all who did receive him to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to be children of God. Children not born of natural descent nor a human decision nor a husband's will but born of God. In John chapter three, Jesus has a conversation with Nicodemus and it's where we get the famous a man must be born again. Why are you born again? Because it doesn't matter what your human family of origin is. You are born into a divine family that we're all related to for the rest of eternity. And it's not just John. I could go to Romans chapter eight verse 14. For those who are led by the spirit of God are the children of God. You could not understand that verse if you didn't understand what children were. You didn't understand how important family is. So those are my seven points. Now here's, I get you that was all kind of cerebral, right? That was sort of all the layup. Here's the real sermon. Family is the foundation of society. Family is the foundation of faith. Family is the foundation of marriage. Family is the foundation of God's covenant with Israel. Family is the foundation of how God relates to us. Family is the foundation of Christian relationship. And family is the foundation of theological adoption. Fantastic. So why does any of that matter? If family is all of those things, foundation of society, faith, church, understanding of God, everything, then I am justified in asking you, my brothers and sisters, a simple question. Is your family foundational to your life or just merely the people who live in your house? When you look at your life, when you measure who you are on the inside, when you look in the mirror, is your family foundational to who you are or are they just the people who live under your roof until they move out? Because I'll tell you right now and anybody who has known me for any length of time, my marriage is foundational to who I am. There's no way I would be the man. As much as you hate my ADHD, you got to give credit to Melanie. She's had 22 years of grinding it down. I was way worse when we got married. Trust me. Melanie will tell you. The people who were there will tell you. There's no way I could be the man I am today without my marriage. My children have made me more patient. My children have pushed me to be wiser, pushed me to be smarter, definitely pushed me to be more patient and to be more understanding. My children are foundational to who I am. I could not be who I am without them. Now in my career field, yes, I would argue, you know what, John, probably the pastor is supposed to have an exemplary family, but that doesn't mean we're not humans. It just means that they are central to who I am. When you live your life, when you go about your day, when you're day to day, Tuesday to Thursday driving through Taco Bell or Chick-fil-A, is your family foundational to who you are? Or are they just the people who share your name or maybe live in your house? Because what I submit to you is that if family is that foundational to everything we've looked at in scripture, and I intentionally tried to get from Genesis all the way to Revelation, I couldn't find a fantastic point in Revelation to make about family. Because ultimately, if my view of Revelation is correct and we're all pre-trib rapture people, we won't be here for it and we'll be with our forever family in the next life. So whoo, don't want to have to be here for that. But I find there are so many people who define themselves by their work, by their achievements, by their hobbies, by their politics, by the size of their checking account or by their non-family relationships. And don't see how foundational family is to who they are. That's why this series is important. And I will also say, that's why this series should hurt. And I say that as much as I love you, this series should hurt. I am probably going to upset more people in the next 5 weeks than I will for the rest of the year. Because it's easy to jump into Haggai and talk about something that happened 500 years before Christ and just challenge you to live better. Next week, it's going to be a whole lot harder to delve into what is a biblical marriage and challenge you. Does your marriage look like a biblical marriage or does your marriage look like a worldly marriage? Husbands, to dive into what scripture says to husbands. And are you doing that? If not, get up and do it. Are you doing what scripture says about wives? If not, get up and do it. And children, and that includes adults whose parents are still living. Are you doing what scripture says for your parents? If you're not, get up and do it. That's what this whole series is designed to be. And so it starts with a simple question. Is your family foundational to your life today? Can you still be who you are without your wife, without your husband, without your relationship with your parents and your children? Some of you are thinking, well, I'm single, right? I'm not married yet. So how does this apply to me? I would tell any person who is unmarried, it is better to understand what to expect of marriage before you get there than get into marriage and then have to figure out how to shift gears because you didn't properly prepare yourself. That's why I do premarital counseling with any couple that will give us the privilege of doing so. Help prepare you to have a successful marriage. I don't know anybody that falls in love and goes, I would like a really crappy marriage that ends in divorce, please. Can I put in 20 years and have heartache and despair and then have to share my grandchildren? Can we do that? That'd be great. Nobody goes into it. Why? Sometimes that happens. Sometimes life happens in the midst of us striving to be like Jesus. And that's okay. It's okay to admit that we're not going to be perfect. It's okay to admit there are bumps in the road. It's okay to admit I haven't found my forever person yet and I'm still single and I'm still single and I'm still waiting to see. It's okay to admit, hey, I found a person but I don't know if they make my forever person yet or not. It's okay to admit all those things. But none of those realities change the scriptural facts.