Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us for worship today. Whether you are seated here in our Wilmington campus or you are part of our online campus family, good morning and thank you for being a part of worship. We are going to bring our marriage and family relationship series in for a landing today. So this is the last week you have to hear me talk about God's design for family until you need marriage counseling, then we can bring it back up again. So let me give you the key thought that has sort of held all of this series together. The Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation of who we are as God's image bearers. So the Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation of who we are as God's image bearers. So first we looked at family, then we looked at marriage, then we looked at husbandry. Last week we looked at wifery and this week I got the privilege of making another word because I couldn't find one in English. So this morning we are going to talk about childship. What is the art? What is the place of being a child? What does the Bible say not just about children, like how to care for children, that's a parenting role. But what does the Bible say about children? I just want to preface it by saying that this is a topical series. So unlike a typical Sunday where we would go to one specific passage, big Bible story, get ourselves there, pass the Civil War, make sure that we understood what we were talking about, and then dig into it, I'm going to be bringing scriptures from a couple different places so I can try to offer you a snapshot, a portrait of what the Bible says. So first, as we've done for the last several weeks, I want to talk to you about the words the Bible uses to describe children. Because unlike man, husband, and woman, wife, there are different words in scripture that are all used to describe children. Whether it's in Hebrew and in Greek, there are words for son, there's a word for daughter, there's a word for child, there's a word for descendant. And here is where I need us to understand, this is where if we're not careful, we're going to miss something because I'm talking to you in English but scripture was written in Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic. So when we say my child, we are almost exclusively referring to the children that my wife and I had. So when I say my children, I'm talking directly about my children who live in my home. So Micah, Emily, Zola, and now Michaela. But that's not the way Hebrew and Greek use the word children. A child could be anyone who is born in your family line. So for those of you who are in the privileged position of being grandparents, there's not a word in Hebrew for grandchild, right? So in English, we would say, well, my child, and then when my child has a child, we don't refer to that second generation as child, we refer to it as grandchild. And we go another generation, we call it what? Great grandchild and so on and so forth. That does not exist in Hebrew or in Greek. So when they say the word child, they are much more referring to descendants in a line. Just think about when we get to the New Testament and Jesus is referred to as the son of David. Is he brothers with King Solomon from halfway back in the middle of the Old Testament? No, but he is from the line of David. So in their language, it was acceptable to call him the son of David because they did not make a distinction between the word child and the word descendant. Now the same is true going the other way. They also did not make a distinction between the words father and grandfather and great grandfather the way we would in English. My father, at least in my family, would refer to either my biological father or refer to my uncle who raised me. I call both of them my dad. Then I had a grandfather. In Hebrew and in Greek, they continue looking at it the same way. So sometimes when you are reading those genealogies and it says so and so was the father of so and so, it doesn't mean it was directly his dad. It could have been his grandfather because there is a little bit of genealogical condensation happening in the organization. So here is my definition of child to go along with husband and wife. A child is an image bearer. Remember that is every one of us. We are all born image bearers of God. A child is an image bearer who is defined by the honor, faith, and care for their family. A child is an image bearer who is defined by the honor, faith, and care of their family. So now I would like to look at just a few different passages that specifically speak to children. I also want to say, those of you who are adults, which probably make up the majority of the people who are going to listen to this sermon, if you have parents, you are a child. Right? If you have parents, you are someone's child. I need you to understand that in a biblical sense, the instructions that are given to children do not expire at your 18th birthday. And we are going to see that when we get into the New Testament. Jesus held some adults to the same truth of scripture that they were required to do as children. So you do not age out of these instructions this morning, but who they apply to in your life may be different depending on what stage and age you are at. So I mean I couldn't do an entire message on what does the Bible say to children and not start in the most obvious verse in the Bible. So if you are scrolling or turning along with me, turn or tap to the book of Exodus chapter 20 verse 12. And we are going to jump right into the middle of the Ten Commandments. Exodus chapter 20 verse 12 in the NIV reads like this. Honor your father and your mother so that you may live long in the land the Lord your God is giving you. So let's just start this off. One of the quote unquote big ten. You know last year we did a whole sermon series going through the Ten Commandments. Honor your father and mother so that you may live long in the land the Lord your God is giving you. So let's break this down. First, what does the word honor mean? The word honor here means to respect. It literally means to give much weight to. To give much weight to. We don't really use it like that in English but what it means is if we had to assign weights to the value of people in your life, you should give much weight or you should assign much value to who? To your father, literally your direct paternal ancestor, your actual dad or any other male ancestor in your line. So and also sorry I need to rewind. One of the biggest things we saw when we studied the Ten Commandments, remember that these instructions are given to a people not a person. They're given to a nation not an individual. So the instruction honor your father and your mother is given to the entire nation of Israel. It is a generational command. Give respect or much weight to. Give honor to your father and your mother. Meaning we are responsible as children. I'm still a child. I have parents. I'm a husband. I have a wife. I'm a father. I have children. That just describes how I relate to the many people who are in my family. If I am applying this passage to myself, I need to give respect or much weight to my father, i.e. my direct father or my father's father. And also to my mother, my direct female mother or female ancestor. So you see how we're really broadening the scope. This is not just you need to respect your one mama and your one papa. This is you need to respect all of your male ancestors and all of your female ancestors. I think about when I was a child and I don't know how many of your... So now we're going to get really uncomfortable. We're going to talk about money in church. Ready? Watch this. So when I was a child and we would go out as a family. So my grandparents had five children. My mother was one of five and then those children had children. And for a while when I was young, we all lived in basically the same place in New Jersey. At least four fifths of us did. So when we would get together after church on a Sunday, we'd either be at grandma's house and we'd be 14, 15 deep at grandma's dining room table with the card table extension for the kids table. But if we were to go out to a restaurant, I remember like my grandpa always paid for the meal no matter how many people were at the table. Like grandpa was always... He sat at the end of the table. He had a place of honor. My grandfather's name was Walter. And Walter sat at the end of the table and he received the honor of paying for the meal for everybody. And I remember at some point when I was I think a young child, maybe my son's age or slightly younger, I remember asking my uncle Keith like, Why does grandpa pay for everything all the time? And I can't remember the exact words of the conversation. But what I remember learning was that in our family, it was kind of disrespectful to try to take the bill away from the patriarch of the family. So if you wanted to help with the bill, you could, you know, slide grandpa some cash like under the table. But it was his position as our patriarch, as the lead male of our family. It was his right and his honored position to pay for the meal. And I remember seeing all of my aunts and uncles, especially when we get together 14, 25 deep, you know, all of my aunts and uncles would either talk to grandpa beforehand. And this for you young people, this would be really easy. We didn't have Zell, right? So nowadays, you can just pull your phone out and you're like, Zell, grandpa, some money under the table. And nobody needed to know about it. Well, they didn't have that because I'm an old person. You know how I learned I was old? I would mentally I would we're doing some laundry this week and we love watching documentaries, especially the one series of documentaries. It's like the the the toys that built America. And then there was the movies that built America. Well, this one was the mega brands that built America. And we got to the episode about cell phones and we're watching the rise of the cell phone and the Blackberry came about. And then finally, the first iPhone came about and then I at some point are watching it going, hey, I had that one. Oh, I remember that Nokia that Nokia ringtone. Yeah, I had that. Oh, I remember that. And all of a sudden, we're watching a history documentary realizing we lived it and I felt very, very old. Just letting you know. But to respect or to give much weight to, I watched the adults in my family show honor to my grandfather by giving him that position. But also not expecting him just to float for everybody. And so my aunts and my uncles, the adults, that second generation, my family, they would give money to my grandfather. My grandfather would still pay for everything. He had much weight at our family table. And that was a way that my family showed honor to him. And obviously, he's my grandfather. But again, we don't have a word for that. So honor, give much weight to father and mother, direct female and male ancestors and also generations up. And then this comes with a promise. In fact, Paul says it in the New Testament. This is the only commandment that comes with a promise. What does it say? So that you may live long in the land the Lord your God is giving you. So let's let me make two things very clear. Remember, this is given to a people, not a person. The second thing I need you to remember is this is not given to you as your people. We were not at the foot of Sinai. So you have to remember scripture was written for us, but it's not written to us. So we have to understand what did God say to his people? What does it mean today? So does this thing mean if you honor your father and mother that you will live to a long age today? No, that is not what this passage says. Keep in mind the context. The children of Israel at the foot of Sinai after the Exodus event. They are on their way into the promised land. So the land of the Lord your God is giving you is the land of Canaan, given to national Israel after the Exodus story. So what does it really mean? What it means is honor your father and mother so that you may literally reside for a long time in my land of promise and blessing. Now in a direct context, we are talking about national Israel post Exodus. So that's what it meant in context. Now what does it mean today? It means that God still expects obedience if you want to be blessed. Now I can bring it forward into a today context. Blessing is muted through obedience. And we see that by God trying to teach his children that you need to honor your father and mother, your male and your female ancestors. So let's dig another step deeper. What does it mean to honor or show much weight to? How can I do that today? I would say to honor today is to give your obedience and submission to your family. Obedience and submission. And I need to say up front, those are not the same thing. Obedience and submission are two different things. Obedience is an action. Submission is an attitude. Obedience is following rules or commands. Obedience is following rules or commands. Do not do this thing. Yes sir, I won't do that. Go do that thing. Yes ma'am, I will go do that. That's obedience. You are merely following instructions. The problem is in the absence of instruction, obedience is void. Right? In the absence of a direct instruction. My son, please do this. My daughter, please do not do that. In the absence of direct instruction, obedience is void. But submission is an attitude. It is an act of the will. It is an act of the will and therefore it exists even in the absence of any direct instructions. Submission is an attitude in which you yield your will to a higher authority. So obedience is obeying direct instructions, either positive or negative. Do that, don't do that. That's obedience. But submission is an attitude of yielding the will. Now why is it that God while redeeming his children from the Exodus event at the foot of Sinai would make sure to teach his people, His people, you obey your mama and daddy. Why? Because children obeying and submitting to their parents is the beginning of discipleship. Children obeying and submitting to their parents is the beginnings of discipleship. This trains them how to respond to God, their one father, when they get older. The reason we have to teach our children not just to obey but to choose to submit. I try to teach my children you have to choose to self limit. I need you to see that that thing is in front of you. I need you to recognize that you want that thing and I need you to choose not to pick it up and take a bite. Because sin is chocolate covered poison. It looks great on the outside, it looks yummy, it looks tasty. And as soon as you ingest it, it brings death to your life. So I need you to see that looks like a Snickers bar, right? Eats like a Snickers, sits like arsenic. I need you to see it, I need you to choose to self limit. And in doing so, you're self limiting your will which is ultimately what God expects of all of us. So in order to honor your parents, you must choose to both obey and submit because this trains us to submit to God. And ultimately when they moved into the land, the receipt of blessing was directly tied to their covenant obedience. So that's the first thing. Children are required to honor their parents. Here's the second one. Children are to revere and worship God. This is not just an adult thing. Children are to be taught to revere and worship God. Let's look at the book of Ecclesiastes chapter 12 verse 1. Ecclesiastes 12 run reads this way. Remember your creator in the days of your youth, before the days of trouble come and the years approach when you will say, I find no pleasure in them. And everybody who's an adult is going, uh huh. Right? Everybody who's like adulting now when we got like big boy, big girl jobs and big boy, big girl bills, we're like, man, you remember when you were a kid and like the number one thing you wanted to avoid was a nap? How many adults, the number one thing you're trying to figure out how to work into your schedule is nap time. Come on, right? Tell the truth. Right? It seems like what we punish our children with is adults were like, wait, wait, oh, there's 30 minutes. Can I take a nap? Can I have nap time? Children are supposed to revere and worship God. Children should be learning who God is, who their creator is, who they are in relationship to him at home. I know I harped on this in a previous message, but I'll say it again. Please do not think that Pastor Tyler and Miss Lucy and Miss Tara and myself can teach your children everything they need to know about God and about Jesus. In the 90 minutes we're at church one day a week. You are setting yourself up for failure and you're setting us up to fall off of that pedestal that we should have never been on. Discipleship begins at home. Truth and critical thinking begin at home. Here the author of Ecclesiastes says, listen kids, you need to remember who your creator is in the days of your youth. Because if you would allow me to paraphrase here, remember your creator in the days of your youth before you grow old and start adulting. That's just my interpretation of before the days of trouble come and the years where you say I find no pleasure. Right? Before we get to adulting, we have to teach our children who God is when there's still time and joy in their life or they will not trust him when the rubber meets the road and adulting happens and life gets stressful. I think that's a pretty simple point, but I really wanted to point it out because I thought the adulting reference in Ecclesiastes 12 was really cool. So here's the third thing, and this is for everybody. Children are to be held accountable for their actions. See, now I got an amen section. That's fantastic. Let's just try that again because it felt good. Children are to be held accountable for their actions. Right? Let's look at Proverbs chapter 20 verse 11. Even small children are known by their actions. So is their conduct really pure and upright? I know there's a lot of times where we as parents, we shade our children's actions to make us feel better. Right? When my children are in public, they're a reflection of my parenting. Now, my children don't always understand this. I think they do now that they're starting to get older and they're starting to get a little wiser. But when they were younger, they didn't necessarily recognize that when they were in public, they were a reflection of my character and my parenting. But they are. But that also means I can hold them accountable when I know that they have learned right from wrong or when I know that they have learned this, not that. Parents, here is your scriptural warrant. You have every right to hold your child accountable for their actions. But here, the back half of this verse, Dino, can I have that one more time? So is their conduct really pure and upright? A couple of words here. Is their conduct, we judge them not by their words but by their actions. What they actually do. And I know there's one of the two words here, pure and upright. Pure means to be clean or to be guiltless. In a salvific sense, it means to be sinless. But in a moral sense, which is what I think more this verse is speaking about, it goes with pure, are they guiltless? And the next word is upright. It literally means to be straight, to be level, to be morally correct. We have every right to hold our children accountable for their moral choices. Why? Because it's our job as parents to teach them to make good moral choices. Now yes, let's just admit, everybody is going to go through that wilderness wandering stage when they get older and they finally get the freedom to spread their wings and everyone is going to take their autonomy out for a spin. Right? Most people are going to take their autonomy out for a spin over the speed limit, down a back road with no headlights. Right? And anybody who's lived through that 18 to 25, you don't have to raise your hand, but you can just quietly nod. Yeah, I did that too. We're not going to tell your children that you did it, obviously. But I think anybody who knows better knows that we go through that period. Just because you're going to watch your child venture off into Prodigalville, doesn't mean you can't pray for them to come home. A lesson that I spoke to a good friend last week. I was having a very difficult emotional week. And so I called in a friend who has a significant skill set in the mental health arena. And I just said, hey man, I need to talk on the phone. I've dug myself into an emotional hole and I can't figure out how to get out. And I know logically, if I put myself in this puddle, I have to be able to climb out because I built this puddle. But I'm struggling to find the exit door because of everything that's around me. And can you just talk me through and help me find how I can dig myself out of this like emotional puddle that I'm in? And so I called a friend and we talked 45 minutes to an hour on the phone. And incredibly helpful to help me see what the causal factors were that brought me to my puddle. And I'll tell you, one of my puddles is being a child and I lost my mother and my father at a very young age. My wife says I have an overly developed hero complex. I need to be the hero all the time for my children, for my nieces now. Like I just, I got to be the guy who always goes the extra mile. And the problem is, is it looks really great from your perspective to see the pastor Bill can sacrifice for everybody else. The problem is I end up sacrificing myself too much and I put myself in emotional hurt doing it. And so my friend was helping me to get through there to realize, wow, I feel responsible even when I'm not the causal factor for bad stuff. So I want to share with you a lesson that I learned last week that I think is directly in this verse. We are not responsible to rescue people from the consequences of their bad choices. Even though everything in me wants to rush into battle as soon as somebody has an ouchy. Maybe you caused that ouchy yourself and I need to let you feel it. Because if you don't feel the ouchy, maybe you're not going to learn from it. And that's still holding people, especially our children, accountable for their moral choices. For their moral choices. Help them to be straight, to be level, to be right, to be correct. Number 4, and this one is going to lie on parents. But children, you have a task here. Children should learn the faith from their parents. Children should learn the faith from their parents. Let's go to Deuteronomy chapter 6. Dino, I only need, yeah, I only need verses 6 and 7. I apologize that I said 1 through 9. I was going to originally use them all. And then I added a whole other section so I cut a couple of verses. So this is actually Deuteronomy chapter 6, just verses 6 and 7. Here it is. These commandments that I give to you today are to be on your hearts. Impress them on your children. Now this is part of the Shema, the big instruction into the national Israel of how they lead their children. Why am I using a parenting verse on a sermon about kids? Because if I am required to teach my children, then children, there is an expectation on God's part that you learn. You see that? Watch what happens. Impress them on your children. Talk about them when you sit at home and when you walk along the road, when you lie down and when you get up. Parents, our job is to constantly be discipling our children. Children, your job is to learn. Ugh, Dad, do we have to talk about this one more time? No, why don't you teach me the lesson? The problem is that we've done that so well at my house now, I don't have to teach anymore at the dining room table. I just watch my children go at it. I guarantee you, like you have dinner with my family, you're going to hear at least one or two words come out of my children's mouth that I didn't teach them, that I have to look up. Micah and Zola both have these giant vocabularies. Sometimes I think, I'm sorry, can you dumb that down for me? I only did 9 years of college. What is that? My teenager, what is that word? Children need to learn the faith from their parents, that's clear. So which means, children, you have a responsibility to not balk every time your parents are trying to teach you a lesson about God. That's them doing their job. Now I think it's, it's point for I want to add here, early in our marriage, I felt like I wasn't a good communicator. And so, anybody ever heard of Gary Chapman's The Five Love Languages? Right, trying to learn how to communicate with my wife. Well, Dr. Chapman wrote a different book called Now You're Speaking My Language. And it wasn't about the five love languages, it was about the levels of intimacy in marriage. And I learned something from that book that I have carried with me probably the last 15 years. There are different levels of intimacy in marriage and in family. And the top level is intellectual intimacy, that's easy, what happened today. Emotional intimacy, that's easy, I feel about this. Physical intimacy within a marriage, that's not hard for adults to figure out. But there's one level of intimacy that's deeper than all three of those. And that's spiritual intimacy. Praying together, reading scripture together, discussing theology and the things of God as a family. Parents, it is your job to delve deep into that arena. Children, it is your job to listen. It is your job to humbly learn, ask questions, challenge your parents. Maybe you don't agree with them. You can sit at my dining room table, all of my family does not agree on every aspect of theology. I don't require them to. As long as my wife and I see that you can defend your position with scripture, we're comfortable with you disagreeing with us. But you can't just disagree with us willy-nilly. You got to bring some support for why do you view it this way versus that way. That's okay. Parents, your job is to put your children in that space. Children, it's your job to fill it. It's your job to learn the faith from your parents, be able to communicate with them. Be able to communicate it back. Because parents, let me explain something to you if you haven't connected the dots yet. When you are discipling your children, whether they are child or whether they are young adult, whether they are married, how you disciple your children is how they will disciple their children. So I was talking with my friend Asaf who is in Uganda. We have bimonthly coaching calls where I'm trying to help him learn the pastor things. They don't have Bible colleges where he is. And he noticed something when I was in Africa. That no matter what I was doing, if Melanie called my phone, everything stops and I talk to my wife. It doesn't matter if I am mid-sentence. If Melanie is on that phone, everything stops and she's my priority. And one day before I left Uganda, we're walking around this beautiful setting. We're sitting at a table. Literally the actual Nile River is flowing by. Palm trees, bottles of water. It's like this gorgeous African setting. And he asks me the wildest question. He says, Bill, can I ask you a question? I was like Asaf, of course. You've asked me like a million questions. Just tell me which area we're going. He goes, why is your wife so important? It was aberrant to his society for a man to stop his work for his wife. That didn't really make sense to him. But he watched me do it time and time again during the week that I was with him. And he goes, I don't understand. Why do you put everything on hold for your wife? He goes, this is ministry. Why would you not continue to do this? And I said, oh, okay, so I get it. You don't understand that your wife is your first ministry. As soon as you understand that, then this decision makes sense. And so we spent probably a good hour talking about why marriage and family is important. Why? And I said, because here's the deal. I want my grandchildren to join me in heaven. That's what I want. I don't know if you're a grandparent, but do you have the desire to see your grandchildren saved? I do, and I don't even have grandchildren yet. So what is the best strategic plan for being able to see my grandchildren and maybe my great-grandchildren in the new creation? Well, that's easy. Make sure my children witness a good Christian marriage. Make sure I prepare them to disciple their children because those are the ones who are going to be discipling my great-grandchildren. Long after I'm gone, whoever still picks up the name Yom's, because Mike is the only one that's going to carry it, right? All of my girls are going to go pick out different names, but Mike is holding it down. He's going to be the generation to hold onto the Yom's name. Wherever my grandchildren end up, I hope it's heaven. And I don't want to leave that to chance. Children, you need to take the time to press your parents. And parents, I'm going to say this. If you have a family, and I'm not pointing anybody out, so please don't get offended at what I'm about to say. But if you do not have a family where asking questions is permitted, your children's questions are going unanswered. Right? I'm not saying children, I'm giving you the authority to question your parents, question their authority or question their character. But what I am saying is we got to have an environment where questions are allowed. Children, I want you to ask your parents the questions you don't understand about the faith. And parents, I want you to be able to have the humility to say, wow, I don't know. Let's call Pastor Tyler together. Let's call Pastor Bill together. Let's sit here and write an email, and let's ask Pastor Bill if he can call us. But children, you have got to own the fact that your parents are your direct disciples. And you've got to press into that relationship. Okay, so all of those apply to children or adults. This next passage is specifically about adult children. Okay, so here we go. Let's fast forward to the New Testament, the Gospel of Mark, chapter 7. Gospel of Mark, chapter 7. In a moment, I'm going to read it, verse 8, but I want to give you the back story because we're jumping into a very small passage here. Obviously, these are the Gospels. So this is the first century. Jesus is doing his earthly ministry. He's walking around. The Pharisees have now asked him a question about obedience and about righteousness. And Jesus observes their character. And then in verse 8, Jesus responds. And they're basically saying, how come your disciples don't obey the law? And here's Jesus' answer starting in verse 8. And he continued. You have a fine way of setting aside the commands of God in order to observe your own traditions. And anyone who curses their father or mother is to be put to death. But you say, if anyone declares what they might have used to help their father or mother is Corbin, that is devoted to God, I'll explain. Then you no longer let them do anything for their father or mother. Thus, you nullify the word of God by your tradition that you have hidden from God. Thus, you nullify the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And you do many things like that. So the Pharisees are questioning Jesus. They're asking him, why do your disciples not obey the law of Moses the way we do? That's my Pharisee impression. It's the best one I got. You got to deal with it. And Jesus replies, well, OK. All right. You want to have an obedience question? Let's talk about obedience. And he brings up this concept of Corbin. So let me explain to you what this is because there's a cultural disconnect if you don't understand it. We today still take offerings at church, right? With the end of a service, we'll collect tithes. We'll collect offerings. And people give of what the Lord has blessed them with back to the Lord as an offering. OK? So keep that in mind. Now, for those of you who are adults who may have aging parents and you have money set aside to help take care of them, or in our society, maybe they have money set aside to care for them. You have to remember in the first century, there was no such thing as 401Ks and Social Security. It was on the children to care for the aging parents. So when the adult children, I just want you to imagine that you're an adult, which for most of you shouldn't be difficult, right? So you're still with me. You're an adult. Uh huh. You're an adult. You have aging parents and they have stored up a fantastic retirement account. And then they've given it to you and say, Jim, here's the money that we've saved for my retirement. Will you please use this to take care of me and your mother? And Jim says, wow, great dad. This is so awesome. You saved up this much. I'm going to give it to the church because it'll make me look righteous. That's Corbin. What they were doing is they were using an Old Testament law that said if something is dedicated to God, then let it be God's. But what they were doing is they were taking away from the familial responsibility to care for aging relatives in order to give more money or to be seen giving more money to the temple in order for their own righteousness. So if Jim were to take all of the money out of his parents retirement account and make a very public gift to the church so that he could be seen giving that money and then refuse to take care of his aging father, that's what he that's what Jesus is illustrating here by misapplying the job of Corbin. So maybe you're asking me, well, where does the Bible say that it's all responsible to care for our aging parents? Jerry, thank you for asking. I actually have the verse for you. So First Timothy chapter three, excuse me, First Timothy chapter five, verses three and four. Give proper recognition to those widows who are really in need. A widow is a woman who's died who no longer has a husband, which means she no longer has a means of support. Verse four, but if a widow has children or grandchildren, these should learn first of all to put their religion into practice by caring for their own family and so repaying their parents and grandparents for this is pleasing to God. So just quick question. What exactly are children repaying their parents and their grandparents. I submit to you, it's care. When we are children, when we are young, our parents have to care for us because we are unable to care for ourselves. Right? My niece just had my first grand niece or great niece. Excuse me. I have a great niece now, which basically makes me a great uncle. Just saying I've been one for a while, but now I have the official title. So my great niece can't care for herself. She's a newborn. Allie and Yusef have to totally care for her because she's unable to care for herself. And in the same way that care for a child changes as they age, so to care for an aging parent changes as they age. Right now, my parents, my mom and dad live in Florida. They're retired. They live on their own. They're completely capable of caring for themselves. But over the last 10 years, I watched my parents sacrifice and care for all four of my grandparents, both my maternal grandparents and my aunt's parents who took me in after my mom died. My parents huffed it every single day. I mean, my wife can attest to us. We watched. They placed them in a full-time care facility as close to their home as they could do. They'd pop in 2 to 3 times a day. Some on a schedule and some unexpected visits just to make sure that all of my grandparents were receiving the care that they were supposed to have. It ruled their schedule for years. And I asked my aunt and uncle one time, why do you put yourself through this? And my aunt said just like the simplest sentence. She said, Bill, I'm never going to look back and ask myself, could I have done more? I'm going to go every single day. I'm going to push as hard as I need to so I can look back at myself and say, we did everything we could to care for my parents when they needed us. Because my mom did everything to care for me when I couldn't care for myself. And I'm going to do it the same way. That's exactly what these passages are talking about. As an adult, if you have aging parents, the Bible requires you to care for them. Now, let's be honest. Not everybody still has the perfect Brady Bunch level family. Okay? So how we care will also be directly relative to the way our relationship is and the way our relationship goes. Many of you know my story. My father gave me and my aunt and uncle when I was a child. So I do not have the same level of relationship with my biological father as I do with my uncle who raised me. My uncle who raised me is who my children call grandma, grandpa. My uncle who raised me is who we go to Florida to visit. We don't go to visit my dad. My dad and I have a completely different relationship. So I'm not trying to say, I don't want you to walk out of my sermon today feeling bootstrapped or beat over the head that if you do not have a full relationship with your dad, that you need to call him up and you need to buy him a steak. You don't need to do that. You can buy me a steak. What I am saying is adult parents, we're going to go all the way to the edge. We're going to do everything every day to do as much as we can. And if that includes helping them move to a different house, then do it. If that includes helping them see a doctor and get a colostomy bag or a cane or new glasses or any of those things, then do it. Because now keep in mind, first century, there was no 401k. There was no social security. There was nothing else. And it was the church's job to care for people. I'll tell you something that my wife and I feel very strongly about is the amount of public programs that we have, the amount of governmental care programs that we have in America, fill a lot of the space that the church used to do. We used to be the place where hurting, needing people went because we could care that deeply. And the government has replaced a lot of those things. You still see churches operating food banks and clothing centers, but we're not at the size of the government. That doesn't mean our mission has changed. Adult parents need to pay forward... I mean adult children, excuse me, need to pay forward the care that was given to them when they were children. That... How that plays out in your life if you have a unique family situation to where you're not exactly sure how to do what you need to do, that's the kind of thing you let me know on a connect card. Like obviously, as I'm standing up here and I'm teaching to a wide audience, just looking at your faces, I know some of your family stories well enough to know that not everybody has the same relationship with their mom and dad. Not every mom and dad is at the same scenario. Not every mom and dad are still married. Everybody's family is unique. I get that. What I am saying is, scripturally, we never stop being a child. Which means we're never freed from honoring your mother and father. And we're never freed from don't do Corbin. Don't do Jim. Don't take dad's 401K and make a giant offering for pastor appreciation. Don't do that. Jim, you can still do that. It's okay. This one's a little hard because it gets into the nitty gritty of the fact that sin has wrecked and corrupted our world and not all of our families look like the key example of a biblical family. So I don't want to... I don't want to make you feel beaten and bruised. I want to make you feel encouraged. Every single human being is an image bearer. Did you notice that that was in every definition I used for the entire series? Wives are image bearers. Husbands are image bearers. Marriage involves image bearers. Children are image bearers. Parents are image bearers. There is a component of the image of God that exists in every single one of us. And that should be all the warrant we need to treat people with love, to treat people with respect. Parents, disciple your children. Adults, care for your parents in the way that is most appropriate in your setting. And if you have questions about that setting, again, I can't stress enough. This is why we have a weekly connect card here at Catalyst. Even if you're joining us online and maybe you have a family situation that doesn't look like the perfect leave it to beaver style family. Maybe yours is like a little Brady Bunch meets Jerry Springer. That's okay. That's alright. Jesus meets all of us where we are. He doesn't expect us to become clean before he helps us.