The Family Foundation
Tuesday, March 11, 2025 1:00 PM
Key Thought:
The Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation of
who we are as God's image-bearers.
Preface:
This was a requested topic
This is a topical series, it's not a single passage series.
How does the Bible describe family?
1: Family is the foundation of society.
God speaking to Adam
Genesis 1:27–28
27 So God created mankind in his own image, in the image of
God he created them; male and female he created them.
28 God blessed them and said to them, “Be fruitful and increase
in number; fill the earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish in the
sea and the birds in the sky and over every living creature that
moves on the ground.”
God speaking to Noah after the flood
Genesis 9:1–2
1 Then God blessed Noah and his sons, saying to them, “Be
fruitful and increase in number and fill the earth.
Family Series Page 1

2 The fear and dread of you will fall on all the beasts of the
earth, and on all the birds in the sky, on every creature that
moves along the ground, and on all the fish in the sea; they are
given into your hands.
2: Family is the foundation of faith.
The Shema; God speaking to Israel after the Exodus
Deuteronomy 6:4–9
6 These commandments that I give you today are to be on your
hearts.
7 Impress them on your children. Talk about them when you sit
at home and when you walk along the road, when you lie down
and when you get up.
Paul writing to Christians living in Ephesians
Ephesians 6:4
4 Fathers, do not exasperate your children; instead, bring them
up in the training and instruction of the Lord.
3: Family is the foundation of marriage
Genesis 2:24–25
24 That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united
to his wife, and they become one flesh.
25 Adam and his wife were both naked, and they felt no shame.
Family Series Page 2

25 Adam and his wife were both naked, and they felt no shame.
Genesis 24:1–4
1 Abraham was now very old, and the LORD had blessed him in
every way.
2 He said to the senior servant in his household, the one in
charge of all that he had, “Put your hand under my thigh.
3 I want you to swear by the LORD, the God of heaven and the
God of earth, that you will not get a wife for my son from the
daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I am living,
4 but will go to my country and my own relatives and get a wife
for my son Isaac.”
4: Family is the foundation of God's covenant with Israel
God speaking to Abraham
Genesis 17:7–8
7 I will establish my covenant as an everlasting covenant
between me and you and your descendants after you for the
generations to come, to be your God and the God of your
descendants after you.
8 The whole land of Canaan, where you now reside as a
foreigner, I will give as an everlasting possession to you and
your descendants after you; and I will be their God.”
God speaking to Jacob
Genesis 35:10–12
Family Series Page 3

Genesis 35:10–12
10 God said to him, “Your name is Jacob, but you will no longer
be called Jacob; your name will be Israel.” So he named him
Israel.
11 And God said to him, “I am God Almighty; be fruitful and
increase in number. A nation and a community of nations will
come from you, and kings will be among your descendants.
12 The land I gave to Abraham and Isaac I also give to you, and
I will give this land to your descendants after you.”
5: Family is the foundation of how God relates to us
Matthew 1:24–25
24 When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had
commanded him and took Mary home as his wife.
25 But he did not consummate their marriage until she gave
birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus.
Exodus 4:22–23
22 Then say to Pharaoh, ‘This is what the LORD says: Israel is
my firstborn son,
23 and I told you, “Let my son go, so he may worship me.” But
you refused to let him go; so I will kill your firstborn son.’ ”
6: Family is the foundation of Christian relationship
Family Series Page 4

6: Family is the foundation of Christian relationship
Romans 12:1
1 Therefore, I urge you, brothers and sisters, in view of God’s
mercy, to offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and
pleasing to God—this is your true and proper worship.
1 Timothy 3:14–15
14 Although I hope to come to you soon, I am writing you these
instructions so that,
15 if I am delayed, you will know how people ought to conduct
themselves in God’s household, which is the church of the living
God, the pillar and foundation of the truth.
7: Family is the foundation of theological adoption
John 1:12–13
12 Yet to all who did receive him, to those who believed in his
name, he gave the right to become children of God—
13 children born not of natural descent, nor of human decision
or a husband’s will, but born of God.
Romans 8:14
14 For those who are led by the Spirit of God are the children of
God.
1: Family is the foundation of society.
2: Family is the foundation of faith.
3: Family is the foundation of marriage
4: Family is the foundation of God's covenant with Israel
Family Series Page 5

4: Family is the foundation of God's covenant with Israel
5: Family is the foundation of how God relates to us
6: Family is the foundation of Christian relationship
7: Family is the foundation of theological adoption
So what? (why does this matter)
If the family is the foundation of society, faith, and the church,
our understanding of God, and all of human society, then we
are justified in asking the question:
Is your family the foundation of your life
or is it just who you lives in your house?
The Takeaway:
Family is the foundation of society, faith, and the church. This
should be reflected in the way we live as Christians.
Family Series Page 6

Biblical Marriage
Tuesday, March 18, 2025 11:00 AM
Key Thought:
The Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation of
who we are as God's image-bearers.
Preface:
This was a requested topic
This is a topical series, it's not a single passage series.
Preface:
Matrimony vs Marriage
Biblical marriage and cultural marriage are not the same.
Biblical vs. Cultural Marriage
1: Different Authority
God vs The State
2: Different Definitions
1 Man, 1 Woman, 1 Life
vs Anyone (age differs)
3: Different Terms
Covenant vs Contract
4: Different Purpose
Glorify God vs Please Man
5: Different Importance
Foundational vs Optional
Family Series Page 7

Foundational vs Optional
6: Different Lesson
Teach Faithfulness vs Selfishness
Genesis 2:18–25
18 The LORD God said, “It is not good for the man to be alone. I
will make a helper suitable for him.”
Not good - man was designed for marriage
Helper - /ezer/ a partner of equal value but different
function
Suitable - Eve was made FOR Adam; male and female were
created FOR EACH OTHER; evolution doesn't adequately
explain sexual reproduction
19 Now the LORD God had formed out of the ground all the wild
animals and all the birds in the sky. He brought them to the
man to see what he would name them; and whatever the man
called each living creature, that was its name.
He brought them to the man - the naming of the animals is
a symbol of Adam's authority over animal-kind
20 So the man gave names to all the livestock, the birds in the
sky and all the wild animals. But for Adam no suitable helper
was found.
Family Series Page 8

was found.
No suitable helper - God allowed Adam to learn that he
wasn't designed to be a "lone wolf". Adam has a need that
only Eve can fill.
Suitable - literally "a partner corresponding to him"
21 So the LORD God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep;
and while he was sleeping, he took one of the man’s ribs and
then closed up the place with flesh.
One of the man's ribs - again, a symbol of their equality of
value in God's eyes; they are "side by side"
22 Then the LORD God made a woman from the rib he had
taken out of the man, and he brought her to the man.
Brought her to the man - the father, presenting his
daughter to her new husband
23 The man said, “This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my
flesh; she shall be called ‘woman,’ for she was taken out of
man.”
Called woman - lit. /ee-sha/
Out of man - /eesh/
Family Series Page 9

24 That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united
to his wife, and they become one flesh.
That is why - the reason for marriage is the DESIGN of man
and woman being able to bear children
Leaves his father - this is not physical leaving, but the
shifting of priority to the man's wife
United to his wife - this isn't a sexual reference, but a public
one; matrimony is to be done before "God and witnesses"
as the establishment of a new family unit
Become one flesh - this should not be limited to "only sex"
but just as Eve was made from Adam's side, so to a married
couple are to share everything with one another to be like
"one person" in their relationship. Sexual intercourse
between a man and a woman is a symbol of the uniting of
two lives into one
25 Adam and his wife were both naked, and they felt no shame.
Adam and his wife - they are now identified by the marital
relationship they are in.
Both naked - they were full exposed to each other
Felt no shame - no reason to "hide" from each other or God
in their relationship. This is the
Family Series Page 10

What is the biblical definition of marriage?
Why is God against gay marriage?
Why is polygamy wrong if it is in the Bible?
The Takeaway:
Monogamous heterosexual marriage is the only definition that
accomplishes both the Scriptural purposes of marriage.
Family Series Page 11

Husbandry
Wednesday, March 26, 2025 10:49 AM
Key Thought:
The Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation of
who we are as God's image-bearers.
Preface:
This was a requested topic
This is a topical series, it's not a single passage series.
Husband: any married man
Heb: /EESH/ man or husband (same word)
Grk: /ah-NAIR/ man, male, or husband (same word)
A husband is a male image-bearer who is defined by his
covenantal faithfulness and love for his wife.
Genesis 2:24
24 That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united
to his wife, and they become one flesh.
That is why - marriage is God's design for humans. This
means that men are made to be husbands!
So… what does the Bible say about being a husband?
A husband must be faithful to his wife
Family Series Page 12

A husband must be faithful to his wife
Exodus 20:14
14 You shall not commit adultery.
Adultery - sexual sin involving married people!
A husband's job is to bring happiness to his wife
Deuteronomy 24:5
5 If a man has recently married, he must not be sent to war or
have any other duty laid on him. For one year he is to be free to
stay at home and bring happiness to the wife he has married.
One year - Newlyweds had A YEAR together
Bring happiness -
A husband's faithfulness should be an example of God's
Hosea 1:2
2 When the LORD began to speak through Hosea, the LORD said
to him, “Go, marry a promiscuous woman and have children
with her, for like an adulterous wife this land is guilty of
unfaithfulness to the LORD.”
A husband's faithfulness is a requirement for eldership
1 Timothy 3:1–3
1 Here is a trustworthy saying: Whoever aspires to be an
overseer desires a noble task.
2 Now the overseer is to be above reproach, faithful to his wife,
temperate, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to
teach,
Family Series Page 13

teach,
3 not given to drunkenness, not violent but gentle, not
quarrelsome, not a lover of money.
A Husband's love to be sacrificially serving
Ephesians 5:25–28
25 Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church
and gave himself up for her
26 to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water
through the word,
27 and to present her to himself as a radiant church, without
stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless.
28 In this same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their
own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
The Takeaway:
Men are made to be faithful loving husbands.
Family Series Page 14

Wifery
Thursday, April 3, 2025 10:25 AM
Key Thought:
The Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation of
who we are as God's image-bearers.
Retraction: Green Explorer story
Preface:
This was a requested topic
This is a topical series, it's not a single passage series.
Disclaimer:
Submission does not include subservience or silence.
Wife: any married woman
Heb: /EE-SHAH/ woman or wife (same word)
Grk: /GEE-NAY/ woman or wife (same word)
A wife is a female image-bearer who inherited a desire to
resist her husband's leadership.
1: Women were designed for marriage partnership
Genesis 2:18
18 The LORD God said, “It is not good for the man to be alone. I
Family Series Page 15

18 The LORD God said, “It is not good for the man to be alone. I
will make a helper suitable for him.”
Not good - man was designed for marriage
Helper - /ezer/ a partner of equal value but different
function
Suitable - Eve was made FOR Adam; male and female were
created FOR EACH OTHER; evolution doesn't adequately
explain sexual reproduction
2: Sin has damaged the women's role in marriage
Genesis 3:16
16 To the woman he said, “I will make your pains in
childbearing very severe; with painful labor you will give birth to
children. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule
over you.”
To the woman - the consequences of Eve's sin
Pains in childbearing - this doesn't say giving birth was
painless, it says the pain was increased.
Painful labor - having children is (a) the design of marriage,
and (b) the first commandment from God. Thus the pain of
childbearing is a generational reminder of the sin of Eden.
Pain is now a part of obedience
to God's design & direction.
Your desire - the active verb here is the desire to "dominate
Family Series Page 16

Your desire - the active verb here is the desire to "dominate
or control"
He will rule over you - this DOES NOT mean "to dominate"
(1) there's a different word for that,
(2) OT has protections for women
(3) NT teaches mutual submission
Wives are called to choose to follow their husband's
leadership
Ephesians 5:21–33 (NIV)
21 Submit to one another out of reverence for Christ.
To one another - this is the design of Christian marriage, to
restore the partnership of marriage
22 Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands as you do to
the Lord.
Wives - this instruction is given directly to all wives
Submit yourselves - lit. "choose to be subject to"; notice it
doesn't NOT say "husbands make your wives submit".
To your own husband - to the life partner you are in
covenant relationship with
As you do to the Lord - we choose to submit to the Lord
because we LOVE HIM and are in covenant relationship
with Him!
Family Series Page 17

The reason wives are directed to "choose to submit" is because
the consequences of the sin now push wives to PRESIDE over
their families rather than PARTNER with their husbands.
All addressing the husband!
23 For the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head
of the church, his body, of which he is the Savior.
24 Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should
submit to their husbands in everything.
25 Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church
and gave himself up for her
26 to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water
through the word,
27 and to present her to himself as a radiant church, without
stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless.
28 In this same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their
own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
29 After all, no one ever hated their own body, but they feed
and care for their body, just as Christ does the church—
30 for we are members of his body.
31 “For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and
be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh.”
32 This is a profound mystery—but I am talking about Christ
and the church.
33 However, each one of you also must love his wife as he loves
himself, and the wife must respect her husband.
Must love his wife - A husband's love should draw his wife
to follow his leadership
Family Series Page 18

to follow his leadership
Must respect - the same term as used to describe Gentiles
that choose to "show reverence to" God
So… what does this mean in the real world?
Submission does not include subservience or silence.
Should a wife submit to a husband does not submit to
Scripture?
Yes, but there are limits.
Protection for wives: Deuteronomy 22:13-30
Case 1: A slandered wife
Case 2: A promiscuous girl before marriage
Case 3: An unfaithful wife
Case 4: A secret liaison (remained silent)
Case 5: A married rape victim (no one heard her)
Case 6: A unmarried rape victim
The "elders at the gate" were the authority
The Takeaway:
Women are made for marriage partnership, but inherited a
desire to dominate their husband's leadership.
Family Series Page 19

Childship
Thursday, April 10, 2025 10:09 AM
Key Thought:
The Bible presents family as the multi-relational foundation of
who we are as God's image-bearers.
Preface:
This was a requested topic
This is a topical series, it's not a single passage series.
Children: any person born into a family
Heb/Grk: several words: son, daughter, child, descendant
Key difference in the biblical languages versus English is there is
less distinction between "direct child" and "descendant".
A child is an image-bearer who is defined by the honor, faith,
and care of their family.
1: Children should honor their parents.
Exodus 20:12
12 “Honor your father and your mother, so that you may live
long in the land the LORD your God is giving you.
Honor - "to respect; to give much weight to"
Father - "father or male ancestor"
Mother - "mother or female ancestor"
Family Series Page 20

This directive is given to a PEOPLE, not a PERSON
The expectation is that we never grow out of "honoring"
our parents, grandparents, etc.
What does it mean to "honor" your parents?
To honor is to give your OBEDIENCE & SUBMISSION
Obedience is an ACTION
To follow rules or commands
Submission is an ATTITUDE
To yield your will to a higher authority
Children obeying and submitting to their parents is the
beginning of discipleship. This trains them to respond to God
when they are older.
So that you may live long in the land - corporate delivery is
key, God is issuing instructions to a nation, not a person.
The honoring of parents (or lack of) would be directly
reflected in Israel's relationship to the Promised Land, a
blessing from God.
Receipt of blessing was directly tied to covenant obedience.
This was directly taught by parents to children!
Family Series Page 21

2: Children are to revere and worship God
Ecclesiastes 12:1
1 Remember your Creator in the days of your youth, before the
days of trouble come and the years approach when you will say,
“I find no pleasure in them”
Remember your Creator - to revere, worship, to profess
Days of your youth - your younger years
Before the days of trouble - the older years
I find no pleasure - older years being difficulty
3: Children are to be held accountable for their actions.
Proverbs 20:11
11 Even small children are known by their actions, so is their
conduct really pure and upright?
Small children - this word covers from birth to marrying
age, it is not simply toddlers or teenagers.
Their actions - the actions of a young person can and should
be used to evaluate their character
Pure - to be clean or guiltless
Upright - to be "straight or level" or right/correct
4: Children should learn the faith from their parents
Deuteronomy 6:6-7
6 These commandments that I give you today are to be on your
hearts.
Family Series Page 22

hearts.
7 Impress them on your children. Talk about them when you sit
at home and when you walk along the road, when you lie down
and when you get up.
5: Adult children are to care for their aging parents
Mark 7:8–13
8 You have let go of the commands of God and are holding on
to human traditions.”
9 And he continued, “You have a fine way of setting aside the
commands of God in order to observe your own traditions!
10 For Moses said, ‘Honor your father and mother,’ and,
‘Anyone who curses their father or mother is to be put to
death.’
11 But you say that if anyone declares that what might have
been used to help their father or mother is Corban (that is,
devoted to God)—
12 then you no longer let them do anything for their father or
mother.
13 Thus you nullify the word of God by your tradition that you
have handed down. And you do many things like that.”
1 Timothy 5:3–4
3 Give proper recognition to those widows who are really in
need.
4 But if a widow has children or grandchildren, these should
learn first of all to put their religion into practice by caring for
their own family and so repaying their parents and
grandparents, for this is pleasing to God.
In the same way "care" for a child changes as they age, so to
Family Series Page 23

In the same way "care" for a child changes as they age, so to
care for an aging parent or grandparent should also change.
The Takeaway:
Children are to learn from, honor, and care for their family.
Family Series Page 24