The construction of Noah’s ark
from
The Bible’s depiction of Noah’s Ark contains significant details. The beauty of its description often
goes overlooked because of the difference in time between the events in Noah’s day and the present
perspective of the modern-day reader. Here is a brief introduction to the construction of Noah’s ark.
NOT A SMALL BOAT
Many depictions of Noah’s Ark look like modern ships with steeply curved hulls that come to clear
points to cut through the water at speed. This is not how the text describes the Ark. In reality, it
would look much more like a large barge than a speedy ship. Remember, the Ark’s purpose was
preservation, not destination. There is no reason to “read back” into Scripture’s description additional
elements of modern day shipbuilding. The Bible does give a clear description of the type of boat it
would be in Genesis 6:14-16.
UNKNOWN WOOD HOW LONG IS A CUBIT NOT ALL WOODEN
The exact type of wood that Different measurements of a Genesis 4:22 tells us that tools
God instructed Noah to use is cubit were used in the ancient were made of bronze and iron
unknown. The word “Gopher” world. Both the Hebrews before the construction of the
is a transliteration of the and Egyptians used common Ark began. There is no reason
Hebrew word and has no cubits from 17.5 to 17.65 inches to assume the builders of the
relation to the English word which is why 18 inches is used Ark did not also have metal
for a small brownish rodent. as the average cubit length. tools at their disposal.
CONSTRUCTION TIME
One of the key objections made to the historicity of the Ark narrative is the accusation that Noah
did not have enough time to build something as large as the Ark. This is not true. First, it is often
assumed that Noah had to build it alone or with only the help of his three sons. Neither of these
ideas are in the text. The Bible doesn’t say directly how many pairs of hands participated in building
the Ark. Here’s an overview of how the math of the man hours for 120 years could have worked out.
NOAH ALONE NOAH AND HIS SONS NOAH, SONS, & WIVES
If Noah worked alone, 8 hours If Noah’s sons joined him If all four wives assisted in
a day, 6 days a week, for 120 when they were old enough, construction, this could bring
years, he would have worked that could bring the man the total to over 1.8 million
for just shy of 300,000 hours. hours up to 900,000 hours. man hours of labor!
MODERN DAY ARK BUILD
To put the hours into perspective, the full-size Ark replica in Kentucky took 280,000 hours to build.
This means Noah and his sons could have built the ark in less than 28 years without outside help.
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.

Objections to the ark
from
Noah’s Ark is not only a beautiful portrait of God’s grace and love, but it is also a major engineering
marvel. It should be no surprise then that objections to the historicity of the Ark exists. Here is a brief
introduction to objections to the Ark and how to answer them.
UNINTELLIGENT AMATEURS COULD NOT HAVE BUILT A SEAWORTHY BOAT
One of the largest objections to the construction of the Ark comes from the idea that people living in
Noah’s days were unskilled and unschooled. This is usually (but not always) based in the naturalistic
idea that humans evolved from lower primates. The foundation of this objection is the mistaken idea
that humans at the time of Noah were less intelligent than they are today. The idea that humanity
gradually evolved from primates to neanderthals to today’s thinking humans is assumed and then
used as justification for why Noah and his contemporaries could not have been intelligent enough to
build a massive seaworthy vessel like the Ark.
CITIES, MUSIC, AND METAL
The Bible’s description of the people who lived before Noah is nothing like the brutish caveman
description offered by this objection. Cain, the son of Adam and Eve, built a city (Genesis 4:17). The
sons of Jubal played stringed and wind instruments (Genesis 4:21). Tubal-Cain forged tools of bronze
and iron before the construction of the Ark began, possibly before Noah was even born! There is no
reason to assume the builders of the Ark did not also have the intelligence or tools to build the Ark.
MILLIONS OF ANIMAL SPECIES COULD NOT HAVE FIT ON THE ARK
Another major objection to the historicity of the Ark narrative is the claim that it is impossible for
millions of species of animals to fit on the Ark, therefore it must be false. The logic is supposed to
require that any species that is alive today also had to be on the ark. The foundation of this objection
is the observation of the amazing plethora and diversity of animals we see alive on the planet today.
Large animals like the elephant, rhinoceros, and giraffe capture the imagination and make it hard
to picture their fully grown size aboard the ark for a year, There are two key details, age and kind of
animal, which make this objection not just problematic, but simply not accurate.
YOUNG ANIMAL KINDS
First, the accusation that “millions of animals could not fit” assumes the Bible claims millions of
animals did fit. This is not what the Bible says. The Bible uses the word “kind” not “species” to
describe animal life. The Old Testament divided all animal life into certain “kinds”. The scientific term
“species” wasn’t coined until 1735. All that is required to have dog-like descendants today is a single
pair of the original dog kind. The purpose of the Ark was to preserve life. It is more reasonable that
God would have directed young, and therefore smaller, animals aboard the Ark.
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.