Welcome back to night five of our exploration of the Genesis flood. Tonight we are going to talk about the actual flood itself. And I think I saw somebody was already handing out the handout. So is there anybody who does not have one? It does say the Genesis flood on both sides. We are going to start on the side where the first box reads the past and the present. So that's going to be our, our beginning tonight, the past and the present. Do you know, am I good to go? Oh, it's all good. I just want, I always want to make sure. So again, for those of you who are watching this either in the app or online after the fact, if you are looking for the handouts, just go to the catalyst app, lower right hand corner, it's going to say links, go into that links and look for the one that says Genesis, I mean, uh, flood VBS handouts. And that's where you'll find all the PDFs. Those who are here in the room know they're not there yet. That's just where they're going to be next week when we get there. So let's talk about the past and the present. Um, what we think about a question will have a direct effect on how we answer it. It is helpful before we begin to review assumptions that are often made before evidence is evaluated. One of the major assumptions made in the scientific endeavor is about the relationship between the past and the present. The phrase the present is the key to the past sums up the majority view within the scientific community called uniformitarianism. That's your next Scrabble word. Uniformitarianism. This is the belief that the way our world operates today, the way our world operates today is mostly the way it has always operated. Rain falls, wind blows, and little changes happen over long periods of time. The opposite view is catastrophism, which holds that there has been, uh, that in the past there has been events shaped by large, unusual disasters. So I need to explain uniformitarianism and catastrophism before we can talk about how the flood worked, which is where we're going. I'm going to present to you an explanation of the Genesis flood that fits both the scriptural evidence and the observation of nature. That means the scripture and the science. But before I do that, I have to explain this difference. So on the box that says uniformitarianism uniformitarianism is the assumption that the past has always operated the way the present does natural processes. We observed today would have remained unchanged in the past. That is an assumption. I need to understand that you can't prove it because you don't have scientific data from eight to 90 million years ago. So all they can do is assume that if something happens this way today, that it must always happen the same way. Just like when I was a kid growing up in school, I was taught that the grand canyon was carved by the Colorado River over millions and millions and millions of years because we can observe that water that flows over sedimentary rock does erode away. However, now we know that there are also forces like volcanic eruptions, for instance, which have been observed in modern times that can decimate whole forests in a matter of minutes or hours. Flash floods can recarve new areas through sandstone, through limestone. These are real things. So uniformitarianism assumes something that I submit to you is already not true because we know about things like volcanoes and flash floods and things like that. So let's talk about catastrophism. Catastrophism is the assumption that there have been big, sudden disasters in the Earth's past. These events affected or altered the natural processes we observe today. So catastrophism merely operates under the principle that there have been catastrophic acts in the past. Here, you know what's so funny about this? Uniformitarianism is absolutely the majority view of the scientific community. And you know why it has to be? Because the scientific community has to assume that things in the past operate the way things today do in order for scientific experiments today to apply to the past. Right? They have to assume gravity has always been gravity. They have to assume speed of light has always been a speed of light. Here's what's really funny. The most recent developments to come out of the CERN laboratory, which is where the giant nuclear accelerator is in Europe. I was just talking to Dr. Doug about this earlier this week when we were talking about uniformitarianism. The world's leading cosmologists now think that at the beginning of the universe, light traveled faster than the speed of light and that the laws of physics were different in the first 13 minutes of the universe than they are for the rest of the universe. And yet we're supposed to say that the speed of light can never be changed. Right? Also, what's the most common explanation for the extinction of the dinosaurs? Catastrophic event, right? A meteor comes from outer space, crashes into planet Earth and kills all the dinosaurs. Caleb, you were asking me about that like two nights ago. That's a catastrophic event. That's not natural processes over time. So even the uniformitarianist, should I say that three times fast, doesn't actually hold to uniformitarianism at all times. If there is credible evidence to support a catastrophic explanation, then even the uniformitarianist will engage with catastrophic thinking. So then really to me, and Ms. Claudia, this is not meant as an offense to the scientific community, but to me, uniformitarianism is a dodge. It's an escape to only explain the catastrophic evidence that you choose to allow into consideration. And the Genesis flood is automatically excluded because it comes from scripture. Now that's why last night's conversation about worldview is super important. We as Christians who hold a biblical worldview are not rejecting science. They say that all the time. Oh, you religious people, you hate science. No, I love science. I disagree with some of your assumptions going into the scientific method. Like there can't be a good science. I disagree with those, but I don't disagree that we should examine evidence. So I'm going to just repeat what we said last night. We as believers who hold to a biblical worldview should not fear examining evidence, but we should say upfront that we examine it with a different lens than a atheistic scientist. We examine scientific evidence with a different lens than an atheist scientist. We examine scientific evidence through the lens of what does scripture reveal about our planet and how can we seek to harmonize that with the way we observe our planet? Because at the end of the day, science is only based on observation. Does that make sense to everybody? So are we uniformitarianists or we catastrophists? We are catastrophists. That's correct. So now let's go down to the second box, the flood description. The standard view of biblical inerrancy states that scripture is truthful in what it says. This holds for all matters, not merely spiritual ones. This means Christians should look to the Bible's description of the flood to test and see how it aligns with observations of our planet. While the Bible is not a scientific text. It does make claims which can be investigated scientifically. So here are three claims about the Genesis flood from scripture. So I want to say that again, because this is another common accusation that gets thrown at us religious people. Oh, well, your Bible's not a scientific textbook. Accurate. I agree. But smuggled into that statement is the idea that the Bible can't make claims which are testable scientifically. Well, I disagree with that. The Bible makes claims about the historicity of Jesus, but it's not a scientific historicity of Jesus. And we can absolutely test that historically. The Bible may claims about the beginning of the universe. We can absolutely test that cosmologically. And the Bible makes claims about the nature of the Genesis flood. And we can test that geologically. Does that make sense? I am not trying to say that we should take the Bible as a geological textbook. That's not what I'm saying. What I am saying is I believe that if you've ever heard of the Chicago Statement on Inerrancy, it was made shortly before I was born. A large group of collective conservative evangelicals got together in Chicago and crafted a statement to define clearly what we mean by biblical inerrancy. And one of the components of that statement is that we believe the Bible as the word of God is true in all that it claims. So if the Bible claims there was a catastrophic global flood, then we, those who believe the Bible is the word of God, believe that that is not hyperbole, that it is in fact a global catastrophic flood. However, that does not excuse us from examining is there evidence in our planet's geological history that can best be explained by a worldwide flood? And that is what I would like to present to you tonight. A harmony of what scripture says about the flood and what is observationally aware of our, I mean, I'm trying to avoid the word what science says, right? Because scientists, science doesn't say things. Scientists say things, but what we observe about our planet, can we find observational data that supports or backs up the biblical data about the flood? So I would like to describe to you first the way the Bible describes the flood. And then when we turn the page, I would like to do my best attempt at explaining to you the geological data that supports the biblical flood narrative. So is everybody cool? First, we're going to do Bible. Then we're going to do nature, right? Book of scripture, book of nature. So here we go. Three clear things the Bible describes about the Genesis flood that I believe are geologically testable. The first, the fountains. In Genesis chapter seven, verse 11, or excuse me, Genesis seven, 11 references the fountains or springs quote of the deep. The term deep here most likely refers to the oceans or large bodies of water. This implies whatever caused the flood came from springs or fountains beneath the ocean floor. And this is the first thing I need to state because we don't normally talk about this. If we were in Bible study or if I were preaching a sermon on Genesis seven, I wouldn't be keying in on this word deep and explaining its geological relevance because that's the point of a lecture like tonight. So the term of the deep, of the deep means of the deep waters, of the deep dark waters. It does not mean of the deep caverns or of the deep man dug trenches or wells. The term here of the deep refers to out of the depths of the ocean. Now, if we are saying that there is a fountain at the bottom of the depth of the ocean, we are justified in saying, Sean, that probably refers to something beneath the ocean floor itself. So the first thing I want you to understand is the Bible describes whatever the mechanism is that caused the flood involves something that exists beneath the floor of the ocean itself. Second, the windows in Genesis seven, eleven references the flood gates or windows quote of heaven being opened. This is a direct reference to heavy rain. It is possible in light of Genesis chapter two, verse five, that it had never rained before this moment or that it had never rained at the volume that it did in this moment. Now, please allow me to explain Genesis chapter two, verse five. If you turn there is describing that it had never rained because God in his power caused a mist to appear and water the plants of the ground. Here's why I say possible, not guaranteed. Genesis chapter two, verse five happens before the fall of Genesis chapter three. We know that the planet itself is affected by the fall of Genesis chapter three. We do not know because scripture is not clear of whether the curse from Adam on the ground affected what you and I know is the hydro dynamic cycle of planet earth. Meaning water evaporates, collects in the clouds, gets soups heavy and it rains. If you live in South Florida, it rains every day at three thirty two p.m. Just letting you know that anybody who's any. Okay. Every like let's call it with two hundred fifty days a year, three hundred days a year. Yes. This this time of year it rains at three thirty two p.m. All the stinking time in South Florida. That's the hydro dynamic cycle. So what scripture does not make plain and so I will not attempt to declare to you that it does make plain is whether the no rain mentioned in Genesis two five continued after the fall events of Genesis three. I can't promise you that because scripture does not make it plain. What I can say is scripture make its print makes it plain before the fall that it had never rained. So when in Genesis chapter seven Moses records the floodgates or windows of heaven being opened there are two possible interpretations. Number one it literally had never rained because the the hydro dynamics that we observe in Genesis two five were not affected by the curse of the ground possible. The other thing that's possible is he isn't referencing no rain ever but he is referencing something about this rain is significantly greater like maybe they had small little rains but not flood level showers. That is also possible. I cannot make a better distinction for you because I can only operate on the data that scripture gives me. So either way we are talking about an event that somehow affects what's beneath the ocean floor and an event that somehow caused it to rain more than it had ever rained before Genesis seven. Does that make sense. All right. Finally let's talk about the waters. Genesis seven seventeen tells us the waters increased until the whole earth was flooded. The waters remained for one hundred and fifty days before beginning to recede Genesis seven twenty four. This means the whole earth was covered in water for almost five months. It's literally if you do the math one hundred fifty days is two days short of five whole months that the entire earth was covered by the water of the Genesis flood. So these are three things that the Bible claims that I believe we should be able to observe in nature and ask the simple question. Is there any evidence that something occurred beneath the ocean floor. Is there any evidence that there was a massive amount of rain that fell. And is there any evidence that water covered the entire surface of the earth for almost five months. Three claims from scripture that I submit to you if the Bible is inherent we shouldn't be afraid of and therefore we should seek evidence for. Does everyone understand where we're going. If you don't understand cough. All right. That's the only time uncomfortable silence is good. So now let's turn the plate turn the page because now we have to talk about plate tectonics. So one model that has been put forth by creation scientists to explain the geophysical workings of the flood is called catastrophic plate tectonics or for the purpose of this lecture I'm going to abbreviate it to CPT. CPT stands for catastrophic plate tectonics. Every time I say it while the name may sound intimidating the workings of the model are both simple and line up with both the natural evidence and the Bible's description of the Genesis flood. Three key aspects of the CPT model are the ocean floor powerful ocean geysers and new land deposits. So I'm going to do my best. I read about this all day trying to absorb the information into my cranium so that I can best explain the CPT model in like everyday bro speak instead of Dr. Snelling level geology speak. So if I mess it up you're going to have to buy the Dr. Snelling book and hear it from him. So the CPT model let's start with the ocean floor because this is the causal factor where everything begins. The CPT model predicts that the tectonic plates beneath the ocean floor cracked. So just look at my hands for a second. My hands represent the tectonic. Okay. Let's rewind back. Let's even talk about what our tectonic plates our planet is like an apple. Right. Everybody is there anyone in this room who's never eaten an apple? I can use apples as an example. All right. If you have an apple, the apple has several components to it. Right. But the very, very inside of the apple where the seeds are is called the core. What is the white part of the apple that's outside the core but underneath the skin? The flesh. Right. The flesh of the apple. That's the tasty part that we eat. And then what's the colored part that's on the outside of the flesh? The skin. Okay. I want you to think about an apple when you think about the geophysics of planet Earth in the very center of our planet. There is a core right now. It is theorized that the core remains molten iron. It is what makes our magnetic poles magnetic. Right. Inside the core is the, is the liquid core of the planet between the core and the apple skin, which is the crust. Right. There is the mantle. The mantle is a large layer of magma or what we would call lava if it comes out above the surface, but under the surface of the planet, it's called magma. So you have the core in the middle of the planet. The core is surrounded by magma and then outside the magma is the crust. You and I live on the outside of the crust. Does that make sense to everybody? Core, mantle, crust. We live on the outside of the crust, but the reality is the crust is sitting on an ocean of molten magma at all times. Right. At some point in the past when this event occurred, the crust that was on the outside, so just imagine that my hands are the crust beneath the ocean. The crust cracks. Now what's below the crust? And what's above the crust if it's at the bottom of the ocean floor? Lot, a lot of water. Right. What happens when the crust breaks and what they call this is tectonic subduction. Super cool term. This is what it means. The plates broke and one plate slid underneath the other plate, opening up this whole highway right here. So if I take the tectonic plates and they crack and one subducts under the other, what's coming up this pipe? Magma, a lot of magma. And what happens when super hot magma comes in contact with super cold ocean water? It turns into steam. We're, we're bypassing rocks and the, the warm magma that comes up vaporizes ocean water, we are talking on the level of five volcanoes at once. So I did a little deep dive. What would this have looked like? Here's what it would look like. And my foot's feeling good now. So I'm going to try to stand up for a little bit because this is fun and exciting and it's geeky. So the tectonic plate breaks. One plate subducts under the other plate upcoming to take its place. Super hot magma being heated by the core of our planet. It flash boils millions of gallons of seawater, like setting off a nuclear bomb at the bottom of the ocean. The water goes straight to gas. Well, what happens if you put bubbles at the bottom of a body of water? Where did the bubbles go? They rise and what happens? Has anybody ever seen a geyser? Super hot water. What does the geyser do? It shoots up. So I need you to imagine this is not just one. This is multiple places all around the planet. Tectonic plates crack plates, subduction magma comes up vaporizes millions of gallons of seawater and all over the planet at one time, geysers from here to the atmosphere take off my one textbook said that given the heat of the magma and the volume of the water being pressed down on the magma, the explosion would have been in excess of five volcanoes. The water vapor would have escaped the surface of the ocean fast enough for escape velocity to make it to space. That is the, that is the power and pressure that we are talking about here. We are not talking about just opening your Coke can, right? We are talking about a geyser that starts at the very bottom of the ocean and has enough power and enough pressure to escape the ocean, go all the way through what you and I call the sky and through the atmosphere at the top of our planet. That is the projected numbers of pressure. Now, what is the geyser made out of? Water vapor, right? Water that's been aerosolized. So it's still H2O, right? Water doesn't change. You can have H2O. What do we call H2O when it's a solid? What do we call H2O when it's a liquid? And what do we call H2O when it's a gas? Steam, but it's always H2O, right? What happens when steam cools? What does it turn back into? Liquid water. There's where your hydrodynamic cycle is, right? Why does it rain every afternoon in Florida? Because the amount of water vapor that evaporates from like everybody in a mama's pool and the ocean goes up, catches, catches in the clouds and comes back down. So the tectonic subduction flash boils millions and millions of gallons of seawater all the way around the surface of the planet all at the same time. And all of these geysers shoot up with fast enough to escape the atmosphere and instantly millions and millions and millions of gallons of aerosolized water reach the top of the atmosphere and cool. What happens? Lot of rain on a scale that our planet has never seen before, because we've never had a tectonic subduction that pushed all of these oceanic geysers from all around the planet at the same time. That's the other thing I have to stress. And we're not just talking about like a single geyser like Old Faithful. We're talking about a line, a wall of super hot volcanic aerosolized water coming up just everywhere. The plate subducted. You've got a wall of hot steam going all the way up to the surface of our planet. So that's the that's how the ocean floor that also got me to talking about the ocean geyser. So the CPT model predicts that hot magma from the Earth's mantle would superheat and vaporize large amounts of seawater, resulting in massive oceanic geysers that would erupt with more force than a volcano. The water vapor would stream up from the ocean and possibly pierce the atmosphere itself. Gary, if you want to hold on to your talk to me, which theory is it again? Canopy theory. Thank you. I forgot the word. You want to hold on to your canopy theory. Here's your reason why the canopy was broken. You've got like steam jets firing out from all sides of the planet at one time. So if you're looking for a mechanism to pierce the already large amount of water that surrounded our planet, here's one for you. Plate subduction creates ocean geysers. But here's the third thing that it does. New land. The subduction of the ocean floor would also create giant tidal waves and surges that would deposit large amounts of sediment and ocean life onto the existing land. This would not only leave fossil evidence, but it would also make the resulting land masses taller than they were originally. Anybody ever been to the ocean and you or the shore? I'm sorry. People go to Jersey. Right. I had to learn that. Um, and now that my foot hurts, I'm never going to forget it. Um, when you go to the ocean or the shore and the waves lap up on the beach, has anybody ever noticed they can leave sediment behind? They leave sand, they take sand, they leave sand. I want you to imagine a massive tectonic plate breaks and the water comes down and then goes flashing up in a wall. You just made one of the biggest tidal waves possibly ever. And you made a dozen of them 20, 40. I can't tell you how many tectonic plates broke at one time, but we are talking tsunamis in all directions, which means you're talking a wall of water. I mean, just, just for fair guess, you're talking the wall of water, the size of an eight story building miles deep. I mean, you're talking catastrophic flood. That's what we're talking about. But that amount of water, it's not just water by itself. It's that wave traveling at that speed. It's going to do the same thing waves at the ocean do. It's going to grind up sediment off the bottom of the ocean floor between wherever the plate was and wherever the unfortunate shoreline was. It's going to grab every oceanic animal that's caught in its tide and wash it well into whatever land masses currently exist. Do you understand why that's important? Because it's testable. We can ask ourselves, is there evidence of marine life on land or is there only evidence of marine life in the water? Because if our model here of the Genesis flood requires plate subduction, requires rain and requires new land, we should be able to see evidence of it. Here's the other cool thing. When God sent the rainbow, what was his promise to Noah? I will never again destroy the earth with water. Here's what's cool about this model. This model leaves the land masses of planet earth taller. Then before the flood, because all of those massive tsunami waves and when the magma came up, now you are right, sweetheart. When the magma comes up after it's superheats and all the heat transfers from the magma into the ocean water, the magma becomes the new ocean floor, which means this plate down here that was the original subducted plate, there should be evidence of it and this the ocean floor should be newer than the subducted plate underneath. Does everybody understand that? Now let's talk about the physical evidence. The catastrophic tectonic model offers a good amount of explanatory power and scope, but is there any evidence to support the claims? Yes, there is. Here are three pieces of evidence that support the CPT's model of how the Genesis flood could be explained. I need to stress, I am not telling you this is how it happened. I am telling you this could be how it happened. Doing the same thing that scientists do in a laboratory. They come up with a theory and then they test it. Is there evidence to support the theory or the hypothesis? Then we can move it forward. If the evidence we find falsifies the hypothesis, then we have to change the hypothesis. The hypothesis I am presenting to you is the tectonic subduction created the geysers created the massive tidal waves and that is what, why does the geophysical explanation of the Genesis flood? If that's my hypothesis, then Hannah, I got to be able to back it up. Can I show you evidence that the CPT model could in fact be the truth? Let's look. Marine fossils. Fossils of marine life have been discovered on all the continents of our planet, including Antarctica. This is not only evidence of a worldwide flood, but also of an original super continent on which all land was connected. Here's what's cool about the marine fossils. Not only are there marine fossils on all continents, but here's what's really neat. The fossils, the marine fossils found in Australia match perfectly with the marine fossils found in southeastern India, where Australia's shape fits best. The marine fossils found in North America where you and I live today, match the marine fossils found in Europe and Africa where our two coastlines match. So not only do the marine fossils give us evidence of a global worldwide flood, they also provide additional evidence of the original super continent, whether you want to go Pangea, Rodina, whichever name you want to go with. The marine fossils are literally every single continent on earth and they not only illustrate a worldwide flood, they also further back up the theory of the original super continent. That gives us an explanation for tectonic shift when the original super continent broke. Cause keep in mind, if North America fits with Europe and Africa, that means the Atlantic ocean never existed on the original super continent. The Atlantic ocean is literally the river that separates us from our cousins across the pond. The Atlantic ocean is the break. The Atlantic ocean is the area of tectonic subduction that separated our continent or what we call our continent now from the original super continent. So marine fossils totally in our corner. Next, the Cambrian explosion. Those who were a part of our VBS last year, this is going to be a little review, but if you've never heard of the Cambrian explosion, here's a simple explanation. The Cambrian explosion is a single layer in the fossil record in which almost all life forms are found. This is clear evidence of a catastrophic event in the past, that a catastrophic event in the past happened in which animals died and became fossilized on a worldwide scale. So what is the Cambrian explosion? When you study fossils, evolution claims that fossils are a record of evolutionary development. Right? Evolution wants to claim that the fossil record is a record of life. Well, if that's true, then you should see a direct correlation from the lowest layers to the highest layers, how life evolved and got more complicated. But that is not the way the fossil record appears. The fossil record has very small life forms. And then you go up like two levels and there's the Cambrian explosion. And every single life form that we have on earth today, or virtually every single life form is represented in one layer. It is completely contrary. If evolution were true, then we would see something completely different in the fossil record, in the geological record. But we don't, you know what we see? A single layer where all the animals died and were fossilized. So let's reach back to last night. What do you need to make a fossil? Rapid burial, low oxygen environment, high amount of mineral water pressure, or I mean, excuse me, high amount of minerals in the water and pressure or time. The flood provides all of those to us and the geological record provides a clear, unarguable level where all life forms died and were rapidly buried. That sounds an awful lot like a worldwide flood. So that's our second piece of observable natural data. And here's the third one, the ocean crust. Creation scientists predicted in the 1970s that the ocean, oceanic plate subduction that could have caused, could have caused the flood. So again, that's the plate shift and one dives beneath the other. And that original plate is going down into the core of our planet towards the mantle. That's tectonic subduction. Modern scientists have observed evidence that part of an ocean floor has in fact been subducted under the current newer ocean floor. So the prediction that creation scientists made in the 1970s, when this model was first being developed, has been proven true. There is in fact, a prehistoric ocean floor that has been subducted underneath of a different tectonic plate and the new ocean floor that was created by the magma coming up, superheating geysers, all that, all of that has been found and cataloged. I really don't know how to make it any more obvious. Exactly the way the Bible, now again, the Bible only gives us bits and pieces. It doesn't tell us how many clouds were there the day before the flood. It doesn't tell us whether Noah was right handed or left handed, but it does tell us that there was a worldwide flood that involved the ocean floor that involved some sort of mechanism where it rained harder than it ever had before. And it does tell us that water covered the entire surface of the earth. And when we come to the geological data, we find marine fossils on all continents around the world that match with the original supercontinent shape. We find the Cambrian explosion in the geological record where there is a single mass extinction event. Not, Gretchen, not only mass extinction, mass extinction and fossilization. It's not just that all animals died. If the, Caleb, let's come back to you for a minute. The, what do you call that? Meteor, right? If the meteor struck planet earth, how did all of the dinosaurs get rapidly buried in a low oxygen environment with high mineral water? A meteor doesn't cause that. A meteor could clearly cause a dust cloud, which would cause plant life to die. That doesn't create a low oxygen environment. It doesn't create mineral water. In order to have this massive bed of discoverable fossils, we have to have a mass extinction event that includes rapid burial, low oxygen environment, mineral water, high pressure. The flood gives us all of that to explain the Cambrian explosion. And if that wasn't enough, they actually found evidence that there is a prehistoric ocean floor subducted and is currently being melted back into the liquid mantle of our planet. Casey, I got nothing after that. All the Bible's claims have been scientifically verified. Now, will the scientific community accept those pieces of evidence? No. Why? Because they're committed to uniformitarianism. That is called, so in logic and in argumentation, we call that an a priori objection, right? Ms. Claudia and I get into that sometimes. Is the objection a priori or is it ins... So what a priori means is I reject your evidence before I evaluate it. Why? Because I already know that uniformitarianism is true. So any catastrophic explanation has to be ruled out. That plate tectonic subduction had to happen over millions of years because we know that the past is always like the present. Well, Jim, I think we're qualified now. How do you know that? How do you know that plate subduction took millions and millions of years? Didn't take millions of years for Mount St. Helens to erupt. Did take millions of years for Mount St. Helens to decimate an entire national forest. It didn't take millions of years for the eruption of Mount St. Helens to carve brand new river beds that the day before Mount St. Helens, those same uniformitarianists would have said, oh, this river bed, it took millions of years, millions of years. And Mount St. Helens did it in like 48 hours. So I just think if we examine the evidence with a clear biblical view, the word of God is true in what it says. That does not rule out our responsibility to find supporting evidence. We are responsible. But literally, I only read the books here on the table and wrote all of this. The information is there. The problem is when the scientific community at large starts with the assumption that there is no God and starts with the assumption that uniformitarianism is true, they will never be able to reach the same conclusions because we didn't start at the same place. We start with the word of God is true and therefore testable. They start with the flood story is merely a myth. There's no reason to test it at all, which means any of this. Now what's funny now is creation science is making a comeback. Christianity is reviving itself in philosophy departments, in science departments, and in history departments in academia. It is making a comeback. That's why we have some of the amazing resources that we have. But the next time somebody tells you believing in the Genesis flood is stupid. Ask them if they've ever heard of oceanic plate subduction. Most likely not. And then ask them to look it up. Like there's nothing that I, the Cambrian explosion, you can Google it. The Marine fossils asked chat GPT. I did before I came tonight. I asked chat GPT each one of these questions because this is what it's like teaching in 2025 is you get up here to teach something and somebody's in the back chat GPTing you while you're running. That's just the way it is. So I did, I asked chat GPT. I asked about the oceanic geysers. If the catastrophic plate tectonic model is true, would the mantle have flash boiled millions of gallons of seawater? Chat GPT said, absolutely. With the force of more than five volcanic eruptions. See, it's chat GPT doesn't have a, doesn't have a dog in the fight. So it just answers whatever data it's given. Now, you know what it did follow up with this modern scientific consensus. Now, you know what it did follow up with this modern scientific consensus is the Genesis flood is a myth. Therefore there's no reason. Yeah. Okay. Love you. That's the way you were trained, but the evidence is there and the evidence supports the word of God. So you do not have to fear believing in a worldwide Genesis flood.