All right, so welcome back to night three as the skit and our wonderful director introduced tonight We're talking about the ark itself the actual Vessel that God used that Noah built. So does everybody have my handout for tonight? If you do not have one, please raise it Fantastic. All right So we got two sides. We're gonna start on the side of the construction of Noah's Ark So first I want to talk about the actual vessel itself Its dimensions some of some of its capacity its construction time things like that because I think the skit is correct many people want to discount the reality of the ark because it sounds Too fantastic to be true. The problem is that it's only too fantastic If you have certain assumptions built into the process and I think we can demonstrate tonight that those assumptions Are false and therefore that the ark is actually a realistic thing. So here we go. The Bible's depiction of Noah's Ark Is contains again with my good grammatical error Sorry contains significant details the beauty of its description often goes overlooked Because of the difference in time between the events of Noah's Day and the present perspective of the modern-day reader Here is a brief introduction to the construction of Noah's Ark first thing. I need you to understand. This is not a small boat Many depictions of Noah's Ark look like modern ships with steeply curved hulls that come to a clear point That cut through the water at speed. This is not how the text describes the ark in reality It would have much look much more like a barge than a speedy ship Remember the ark's purpose is preservation not destination There is no reason to read back into scriptures Description additional elements of modern shipbuilding The Bible does give a clear description of the type of boat it would be in Genesis chapter 6 verses 14 through 16 So the first thing I need you to understand is the ark did not look like a cruise ship Even though that's a very modern large vessel because our modern ships whether they be cruise ships whether they be naval ships They were designed for destination right when you go on a cruise You are at a port and you go to maybe several ports and you return to a port The ark did not have a port of call Its only job was to float its only job was to preserve life so it is much more like a flat barge than a streamlined ship because The ark did not have sails like a pirate ship. It did not have an engine room like An ocean-going vessel today. It didn't need to have any of those things all it needed to have was the ability to float and the ability not to capsize and I do want to say if if you're still in the fence and you only want to invest in One of the books that I have up here and I'm sorry, I probably just walked out of frame for everybody watching on a video I apologize I will eventually figure out how to get better at this this book right here is the Genesis flood revisited by Andrew Snelling his Training is as a geologist So there's a lot in the book that talks about the geology of the flood and tectonic plates still again But there's a good couple of chapters in here that talk about the construction of the ark its dimensions there's an article in here that I read today that someone tested the Viability and how hard it would be to capsize the ark and so they built one at a 1 fifth scale model They built it in South Korea and then they used the same Simulations that they use in modern shipbuilding, right? So they have a water tank and they push waves through it and wind and what they found was is according to the design of the ark the ark could have tilted beyond 45 degrees and Not capsized because of its dimensions because of its 1 by 6 nature It could come up north of 45 degrees Obviously not all the way to 90 but north of 45 degrees and come back down again And then because of its design if it was ever getting pushed by a wave It would immediately write itself to where it was long ways in the water Which allowed its weight to keep it more buoyant all of that was in this book really cool articles So I'm not gonna walk back out of frame, but I'll just put that right there so there's a few key details that come from Genesis chapter 6 that I want to highlight because Another accusation that is made is They couldn't build a ship of that size out of wood. That's an accusation Okay, how do you know that? Like just I mean go ahead Rod. How do you know that how you know what they can't can't build? So a couple of things I want you to understand about Noah's Ark in the first First white box here on the left. It says unknown wood The exact type of wood that God instructed Noah to use is unknown We read that as the word gopher. It's actually the Hebrew word gopher It's exactly it's a transliteration We don't know what the type of wood is because whatever this type of wood is doesn't exist on earth today So you can't so Claudia Let's just let's just game this out if the type of wood that God instructed Noah to build the Ark out of Does not exist on planet Earth today Then there is no way that you can test it and know for sure that it's incapable of doing what God said it could do So the word there gopher is a transliteration of the Hebrew word And I believe it's gopher gopher not gopher but gopher and It is nothing to do with the small brown rodent in English that we call the gopher Just in case Sometimes, you know people get that mistake because the words sound the same in English It's it's a homophone the word gopher here is a literal transliteration They took what did the syllable sound like in Hebrew since we don't have an English equivalent. It's not pine It's not spruce. It's not oak. It's literally gopher wood or some translations call it cypress wood That type of wood has been lost to time to antiquity So since we don't know we can't test the wood You can't say it's impossible number two How long is a cubit this one was an interesting little rabbit hole So those of you who like your Bible studying I want everybody to do this hold up a hand bend it at the elbow Wrists straight, but bend at the elbow a Cubit is from the tip of your middle finger to the bottom of your elbow Right. So this is a cubit. Here's the problem I'm a tad bit taller than my nephew back here So What what? Youssef's cubit is it's gonna be a little different from uncle Bill's cubit And that's probably still gonna be a little different from Jim's cubit and Rod's cubit and cautious cubit So in the ancient world there were several standards of what a cubit was The Egyptians had two different cubits the Hebrew people had two different cubits Babylonia Mesopotamia had a different cubit and so when we asked the question Well, which cubit would Moses have used because Moses is the author of the book of Genesis He's receiving it from God, but Moses is the one writing it down So different measurements of a cubit were used in the ancient world both the Hebrews and the Egyptians Used what's called a common cubit that was from? 17.5 to 16.65 inches Which is why 18 inches is used as the average length of a cubit now Again the the Snelling book here goes into an uber like geek level detail about all the different kinds of cubits There were some that were north of 22 inches. That's like your NBA level cubit. That's why that's what I'm thinking, right? That's like a shack kind of cubit And then there were some cubits that were down in the 15 inch range. That's like your Jockeys your guys who ride horses, right? Super short But if we're gonna ask ourselves the intelligent question Which one of these is Moses most likely to have measured? Well Moses is a Hebrew who is educated in Egypt So the most likely target is 17.5 to 17.65 inches But what's cool is if you round it to 18 inches it also gets equal to 45 centimeters And so that gives us kind of a standard in both measurement systems. So most of the Measurements in our modern-day Measurements whether you see it in inches or whether you see it meters. They are converting a cubit at 18 inches So just so you understand that and then not all wooden. So here's the other thing. It's cool Genesis chapter 4 verse 22 tells us that tools were made of bronze and iron Before the construction of the ark began There is no reason to assume the builders of the ark did not also have metal tools at their disposal So one of the big accusations is you really believe somebody could have built a boat that big with just hand tools Well, number one, you don't know that they only had hand tools But we know for certain that in Genesis chapter 4 it specifically mentions fashioning tools from iron and from bronze That means there was some sort of knowledge of mining There was some sort of knowledge of smelting and there was some sort of knowledge of blacksmithing right blacksmithery Gentlemen you guys go to the blacksmith in the fall. You can tell me which one of those words is least offensive to a blacksmith But there is clear biblical evidence that iron tools pre-exist Noah if iron tools Pre-exist Noah then there is no reason to believe that Noah could not have had the iron tools Then there is no reason to believe that Noah could not have had them His culture would have understood them would have known how to use them Which is why I like some of the posters that you see in the lobby I feel like the all the illustrators who illustrated for apologetics press Did a very good job on their research because the axe that cartoon Noah uses in the lobby Is is an iron axe wouldn't handle but big boy iron head on it so For all of those reasons the fact that that the ark was built out of a type of wood that we do not have today That a cubit is roughly 18 inches long on the average and the fact that they clearly would have had wooden tools Which means if they had access to wooden tools he could have had access to wooden rivets wooden nails Uh, I mean, excuse me metal rivets metal nails. He could have had metal or iron reinforcements on the inside of the ark the idea That he has to do everything with tongue and groove wood only construction is false Even though it's usually assumed because you know, we're going so far back in time. It's actually a false assumption The bible tells us in genesis 4 That wood tools existed. So does that make sense give you a portrait now? You're probably asking how big was the ark? There is a two scale replica of the ark that was built in kentucky It's called the ark encounter 45 minutes from it is the creation museum Miss andrea and mr. John went to the ark encounter. Was it this year or last year? Last year, um, and she actually has with her a book that she bought there She allowed me to look at it as I was preparing for tonight going to the ark encounter is absolutely on my bucket list But just to give you kind of a basic idea 470 feet from stem to stern 40 what is it 45 feet high? and No, 75 feet high 45 feet wide and 450 feet long It's basically the size of an apartment building There were three decks on the interior of the ark and remember it's a barge. It's not a cruise ship It doesn't come to a sharpness at the bottom. It only has to be flat enough to displace the weight So when you think of the ark you need to realize that our entire church building Like literally the building you and I are sitting in can fit on the inside of the ark with room to spare This entire room would have fit in there That's how I mean ginormous if if you have the chance to go to site and sound theaters this year. They're running the show noah And my family went and saw it earlier this year And I don't want to spoil too much of the show But several of the scenes in the show take place on the interior of the ark and they have transformed the entire Theater to give you the impression that you are inside the ark as the rain and as the wind and it's incredibly immersive But we are not talking about a small boat We are talking about a massive bit of construction So now let's shift over to the second black bar. That's on the right hand side of your page that says construction time One of the key objections made to the historicity of the ark narrative is the accusation that noah did not have enough time To build something as large as the ark This is not true First it is often assumed that noah had to build it alone or with only the help of his three sons Neither of these ideas are in the text The bible does not say directly how many pairs of hands participated in the building In building the ark Here's an overview of how the math of man hours of 120 years Could have worked out and I need to stress could have the bible does not say that noah built the ark alone all by himself The bible does not say that only noah and his sons built the ark. The bible does not say he didn't hire Wood laborers metal laborers shipbuilders bible doesn't say any of that So we are not justified in assuming it but we are also not going to allow someone else to impose a Justification on the text that's not there but the bible does say he had 120 years So let's play this out. I gave you three choices here If noah alone if noah worked alone eight hours a day six days a week honoring the sabbath For 120 years He would have worked just shy of 300 000 hours. I did the math It's 200 000 299 000 and some change so I rounded it up to 300 000 because it's easier 300 000 man hours if noah worked alone If noah's sons joined him when they were old enough Because they weren't all born when god told him to start work So we can't say that all three of his sons were fully grown strapping good-looking men And worked all the 120 years that's not in the text but it is feasible that maybe Um, they were born within the first 40 to 50 years of the construction project Therefore i'm allowed to say that his three sons could have worked with him for uh, 70 to 80 of those 120 years That that's kind of reasonable. So if the sons joined him when they were old enough That could bring the man hours to 900 thousand man hours right But what about their wives? Noah obviously had a wife in order to have sons and the sons had wives because they got on the boat So if all four wives Assisted in construction this could bring the total to 1.8 million man hours of labor And I still haven't included humans that didn't ride on the ark So now let's just keep going. What if it was noah his three sons their four wives And they hired in some help if they hired in only eight people you take that 1.8 and multiply it by two Now you're at 3.6 Million work hours and the number just goes up depending on how many you want to theorize assisted him. Here's why that's important To put the work hours in perspective the full-size ark replica in kentucky Took 280 thousand hours to build This means noah and his sons Could have built the ark in kentucky in less than 28 years And he had 120 now someone's saying but he didn't have a backhoe Okay, granted. He didn't have a backhoe But that's why i'm saying 300 000 hours if he had no help 900 000 hours if he only had just his sons and the wives didn't participate at all 1.8 million man hours In 120 years And they built the ark in kentucky in 28 years It is not unreasonable You know, here's the problem and it's called Chronocentrism a really giant apologetic word, but here's what it means It means we believe we're better than the people of the past Because of our technological advantage. That's what chronocentrism is Chrono meaning time centrism meaning center of your viewpoint. We believe that because I can reach into my pocket and I have an iphone That makes me better than anybody who can reach in their pocket and pull out an android phone I would submit to you that could be objectively true But is that really true are we better than the people of the past merely because we have the internet No, are we better than the people of the past because we have backhoes and they had hand tools No, if there's any one thing that I have learned By watching old-school roughneck men who work with their hands Is using power tools and using calculators Have caused us to lose the knowledge and the skills that come with tradesmen who work with their hands I know that my my uncle my daddy Um is a telephone man did telephone his whole life That man is like An artist with a pair of scissors when it comes to cutting wire He knows how to cut he knows how to splice. It looks clean. It looks perfect Why because he's done it so long that he is a artist at what he does I've met old-school when we lived in virginia several people who went to our church worked at the newport news Shipbuilding yard that builds our current u.s aircraft carriers and submarines Amazing amazing men when I worked with this one guy his name was kyle kyle I think has to be the most brilliant redneck that i've ever met in my life Kyle doesn't know how to match his t-shirts to his shorts But kyle can do trigonometry in his head And kyle works in a special branch of the newport news shipbuilding yard and his job Is to make pieces work together that weren't designed to work together So he has his own custom machine shop and he designs things in like 3d space And then he 3d prints them in plastic and then he see and sees them in steel and so when the ship comes to them because the way the u.s navy works is Half a submarine is built in groton connecticut and the other half is built in virginia And then the two halves are placed together and that's how we build our ships The reason for that is we started in world war two for those of you who are war buffs We started doing that in world war two so that no enemy could ever kill our ability to make ships faster than they can Kyle's the guy that has to make the groton stuff fit the virginia stuff so much so that one day when we were in virginia and um, the discovery channel is doing a documentary on The u.s. Naval fighting force and how we build ships and they're filming all these cool shipbuilding things and you know There's sparks flying everywhere and these roughneck dudes with big And then you get it and the camera stops and there is an armed mp With an m4 and he goes and stop And they broke down the entire camera rig Moved to the other side of kyle's office Reset and filmed so when you watch the documentary, it's like his office doesn't exist They started at a wall and picked up a wall and it's like his office isn't there Because he can't even tell me the things he does all he can tell you is because I make stuff fit That's what I do We've lost so many brilliant rednecks like kyle By, you know switching to an iphone and I can ask chat gbt anything I need don't get me wrong I'm a geek. I love ai but ai is going to make people stupid if you utilize it too much If we lose the ability to read if we lose the ability to research we lose the ability to learn Can you imagine if they lived for five to seven? hundred years hundred years We do our careers for what? 50 If you're lucky, you know if you're in the military you can deuce out at 20 years if you're a police officer gary What's the number of years before you're allowed to retire? 20 Can you imagine how amazing of a detective you were if that's all you did for 300 years? For those of you watching online he said pass I just think we need to take a strong hard look at our own Chronocentrism when we look back in the patent and we use this analogy in the old and the new testament say well They're stupid. They were first century. They were superstitious. They didn't have the science that we have today You have no idea the level of understanding that those people had I mean the stuff that the romans built is still standing Hadrian's wall that was built 500 years before jesus walked is still standing in great britain Those jokers knew how to build stuff And they didn't have chat gpt and they didn't have dwalt Just saying so Hopefully at this point i've given you a portrait of what the ark looked like I've given you the understanding of how it was measured how long it took to build and it is not unreasonable to see That even with only hand iron tools I mean they built the pyramids and they're still standing Okay, is that a fair argument for the ark? Now let's turn the page I want to offer you two objections that you are likely to hear to um Defending the ark and I want to offer you the objection and the correct answer Or I don't want to say correct answer. I apologize my answer There are many answers to these questions if I got asked these questions here, I would choose to answer them so the first is um Unintelligent amateurs could not have built a seaworthy boat You hear the chronocentrism in that? Unintelligent amateurs. Well, those are both assumptions. How do you know the people who built the ark were unintelligent? How do you know the people that built the ark were amateurs? How do you know there weren't shipbuilders before the flood? You can't know that so it's an assumption. You're assuming that they're amateurs because surely they couldn't be as smart as us Surely they couldn't be as experienced as us living in our time. That's that chronocentrism. So Unintelligent amateurs could not have built a seaworthy boat One of the largest objections to the construction of the ark comes from the idea that people living in noah's day were unskilled and unschooled This is usually but not always based on the naturalistic idea that humans evolved from lower primates The foundation of this objection is the mistaken idea that humans at the time of noah were less intelligent Than they are today The idea that humanity gradually evolved from primates to neanderthals to today's thinking humans Assume is assumed and then used as justification for why noah and his contemporaries Could not have been intelligent to build a massive seaworthy vessel like the ark Do you hear all the naturalism and the evolution built into this accusation? Well, we know That only neanderthals were around then and we know that all they had was sticks and uga buga So they couldn't use sticks and uga buga to build the ark So here's how I would choose to answer that cities music and metal The bibles of the the bible's description of the people who lived before noah Is nothing like the brutish cave men like description offered by this objection Cain the son of adam and eve built a city genesis chapter 4 verse 17 The sons of jubal played stringed and winged or wind instruments genesis 421 Two-ball cane forged tools of bronze and iron before the construction of the ark began Possibly before noah was even born There is no reason to assume the builders of the ark did not also have the intelligence or the tools to build the ark Three clear biblical examples of intelligence you don't and let's be honest. Let's talk about the way human culture develops We don't develop the arts before we develop architecture Right. We don't start inventing the the flute the lyre the guitar the saxophone Until we had already built buildings to be safe when it rains Right. So if culture has made it to the point that it is building and learning Instrumentation we are investing in the arts There is a certain amount of infrastructure and structural knowledge ability that pre-exists Now maybe they didn't have electricity, right? Maybe they didn't have the solar generator pulling the tesla up pulling out the electric tesla, right? fine but if cities and arts like music and metallurgy All pre-exist noah according to scripture Then the concept of them being unintelligent amateurs is itself what we call a straw man So a straw man is when you invent a weak form of your opponent and then you squash that weak form Right. That's like saying everyone who believes in god is superstitious and we know superstitious people can't be trusted So blah blah blah blah that's making a straw man out of something that's real So when someone tells you unintelligent amateurs could not have built a seaworthy boat your first question. How do you know that? What led you to that conclusion? Why do you think the people of noah's day were unintelligent? Why do you think the peoples of noah's day were amateurs at shipbuilding? Where do you get the data to support your assumptions before you ever ask me the question You're assuming they're unintelligent. You're assuming they're amateurs. You assume they're all neanderthals Where are all those assumptions built in your question? So that's how I would answer the unintelligent amateurs one Here's probably the one that more you're going to hear more often Millions of animal species could not have fit on the ark anybody heard that one I get that one quite frequently millions of animal species could not have fit on the ark Another major objection to the historicity of the ark narrative is the claim that it is impossible for millions of species Of animals to fit on the ark therefore it must be false The logic is supposed to um, the logic is supposed to require that any species that is alive today Also had to be alive on the ark The foundation of this objection is the observation of the amazing plethora and diversity of animals We see alive on the planet today large animals like the elephant rhinoceros and giraffe Capture the imagination and make it hard to picture their fully grown size aboard the ark for a year There are two key details age and kind of animal which make this objection not just problematic but simply not accurate So here's how you answer Do you really believe that there were millions of species of animals on the ark? No, I don't have to believe that and here's why First the accusation that quote millions of animals could not fit on the ark assumes the bible claims Millions of animals did fit that is not in the bible's claim anywhere The bible only merely mentions the number Of the kinds of animals two of every unclean animal and seven of every clean animal Also, it's not every animal on planet earth think of an entire class of animal that didn't board the ark Anybody there are several think of an animal that's alive today that would not have had to board the ark Fish whoever said it. Thank you fish. Don't board the ark. Why? Because they can swim Is that the easy answer the bible doesn't claim See this question again, it tries to overextend the bible's claim Do you believe that all all species that are alive today are on the ark? No, the bible doesn't say that So you don't get to push me into that box. The bible doesn't claim fish were on the ark The bible doesn't claim arachnids were on the ark the bible doesn't claim insects were on the ark The bible doesn't claim the echinoderms. Those are your starfish are on the ark So we don't have to defend that position because that's not what the bible says The bible uses the word kind Not the word species To describe animal life the old testament divided all animal life into certain kinds The scientific term species wasn't coined until 1735 1735 So there is no reason to allow someone to bully you into using the word species To discuss the animals on the ark the word species was I mean it existed before 1735 But the word species and the way we hear it today in the common vernacular of scientific taxonomy It was not used in relation to animal life that way until 1735 So why on god's green earth would I allow you? To use that word to describe the ark that happened thousands of years before christ. It just doesn't make sense All that is required is to have all that is required to have dog-like descendants today Is a single pair of the original dog kind So stop let me stop right there. I want to explain that and then i'll do the last chat the last sentence So the bible does not use the word species the bible does not use the word genus The bible does not use the word family or subfamily or any of the other terms that we learn in scientific taxonomy that entire Taxonomy was created during the enlightenment in the 17 and 1800s. It did not exist in noah's day So don't let somebody push you into having to commit to that because then kasha what they're going to do Is if you say yes to the word species Then they're going to go measure how many species are on planet earth right now and try to make you say That all the animals that were on planet earth have to be on the ark. That is a lie. You know how I know that Has anybody ever tried to argue that the teacup yorkie was on the ark? Right does anybody ever like kaleb you ever tried somebody try to defend that the labradoodle was on the ark No We bred those animals. We bred those dogs for different purposes. Can you imagine a dachshund on the ark? Just running everywhere No, we don't have to have the teacup yorksy or the labradoodle or the dachshund or you know I have a rat terrier at home. He's the most annoying cute little dog ever right? None of them had to be on the ark. You know what had to be on the ark the dog Kind I don't even want to use the word canine because that's giving into scientific taxonomy That is not what the bible says there had to be a singular proto dog kind And from that original dog kind Came generations of dogs that then spread out across the earth adapted to their environments Adaptation is not anti-biblical Adaptation is very biblical Macro evolution the idea that dogs become pigs or that pigs become birds That is against the bible, but the idea that a singular proto dog kind Over time and over generation as they adapted to their environments could become the arctic timber wolf and the african hunting dog totally And then somehow we domesticated that and we took the timber wolf and the hunting dog and we made labradoodle That one's on us That one's totally on us But you don't like let's talk about the cat kind right? That can be lions that can be tigers that can be panthers pumas lynx servals all of those come from a proto-cat Kind now, how can I defend this not descriptor ly but scientifically there is a thing called genetic limit right, so those who study mendelson and Chromosomal dna and evolution There is a limit to how far a certain animal can evolve or adapt Each kind have limits science is still discovering the limits But there are limits you cannot turn a reptile into a chicken Dinosaurs did not become chickens dinosaurs could have been chickens Do you just imagine if a t-rex was actually a walking talking giant chicken, can you imagine the barbecue we could have with that? Same So when we talk about the animal kinds on the ark you and oh, here's another thing The bible doesn't claim that any animals boarded the ark except for land dwelling air breathing animals so Let's talk give me an animal. This is a fun game. Give me an animal that breathes air but doesn't live on land a whale wonderful example That didn't have to board the ark. Why? Because it can swim and still breathe air All that had to board the ark are land dwelling air breathing animals You know another another animal that wouldn't have to board the ark a duck pelican duck Goose any aquatic bird can fly and can land on the water Doesn't have to board the ark the giraffe whatever its proto original kind was I would argue that the giraffe is most closely associated with like the horse kind Right, so you could put the giraffe and the zebra and the horse, but there were no mules. We bred those So does that make sense? You do not have to allow someone to bully you into saying species and here's why that's important If when i'm done tonight you go and ask chat gpt. How many species of animal live on planet earth today? You're going to get somewhere north of 1.6 million How many animals actually had to be on the ark the snelling book goes into it 16 000 or less 16 000 or less animals had to board the ark in order to repopulate The amount of animals that a exists today and b exists in the fossil record Because keep in mind what do we call it when human humans? Hunt an animal and it no longer exists Extinction right we have a word for that in our language The other reason you don't have to allow someone to bully you into saying every animal that's alive today had to be on the ark Is we know that extinction is a real thing It's very reasonable That after the ark animals began to repopulate And people just hunted them to extinction right Nobody's going to argue that humans don't do that So we don't have to argue that all of the animals that were on the ark are still alive today Because humans could have hunted them to extinction and we don't have to argue that all animals that are alive today had to be on the ark Because that is not the bible's claim the bible's claim is two of each kind Not species homus or genus or family Now let me get to the last question Or the last sentence in the lower box here the purpose of the ark Was to preserve life It is more reasonable that god would have directed young and therefore smaller animals to board the ark When somebody says to me, do you really believe a full-size? African elephant was on the ark No No, the bible doesn't say that So therefore I don't have to defend it what the bible says is whatever animal the african Elephant and the indian elephant and the woolly mammoth that we know existed, but we hunted to extinction Those are all from the same kind Whatever the proto animal of those are Had to be on the ark But it didn't have to be full size because you think about it if the purpose of animal life after the ark is to reproduce You want the youngest animal possible? So there's as many times to make more animals So it doesn't make sense to me that god would send old crusty rachety animals to the ark Right. I'm sorry Grandma elephant wasn't on the ark Granddaughter elephant was on the ark Grandson elephant was on the ark so that after the time of the ark when the ark came to rest and the animals began to spread back out Corrationally, they could live long enough to repopulate their kind That still doesn't mean we didn't hunt them to extinction and that still doesn't mean that there aren't some animals that are descendant From what was on the ark, but don't let anybody make you agree That just because there's a puma today that the puma had to be on the ark And that the tiger had to be on the ark and that the lion had to be on the ark. Nope All I needed was one set of cubs From the proto cat kind One set of cubs from the proto dog kind one set of cubs from the the proto horse giraffe zebra kind And we still could say realistically that all of the animals that exist today could step in on the ark I'm so before I open it up for questions number one. I stopped watching the clock. How much time I got left 15 minutes fantastic. Um, I do want to ask some questions The dinosaur question comes tomorrow night Because I know that's one of the big questions. What about humans and dinosaurs in the flood? That's going to be a major focus for tomorrow night