Is genesis history or mythology
from
The story of the Noah’s Ark captures the heart and mind of many a Bible student. Yet, there are many
details about the study of the Genesis Flood that rarely find their way into conversation because the
story looms so large in the Christian collective conscience. Here is a brief introduction to the topic of
the Genesis Flood.
IS GENESIS HISTORY OR MYTHOLOGY?
There is a large debate of what parts of the book of Genesis should be taken as history and what
should be considered legend/myth. The debate generally focuses on the first 11 chapters. Some
scholars view Genesis 1-11 with a different interpretative lens than the rest of the book. They suggest
that the narratives prior to chapter 12 are not to be understood historically, but this changes abruptly
at chapter 12 with the beginning of the story of Abraham. The patriarch narratives are considered
historical, but the preceding stories are not. Before we can present information on the pre-flood
world, we must determine if Genesis 1-11 are historical at all.
7 CLEAR TRUTH FROM GENESIS 1-11 7 REASONS TO VIEW GENESIS 1-11 AS HISTORY
1: God created everything in six literal 1: There is no clear change in language or literary
24-hour days. style between chapters 11 and 12 of Genesis.
2: Adam and Eve were real people. 2: There is over 100 references in both the Old and
New Testaments referring back to Genesis 1-11.
3: Corruption entered God’s “very good”
creation as a result of Adam and Eve’s 3: Jesus refers to the creation of humanity as male
sin. and female as the establishment of human marriage
in Matthew 19:34-5 and the “days of Noah” as an
4: God promised a human descendant actual historical time period in Luke 17:26-27.
would come to “crush the head” of the
serpent. 4: If Adam is not a historical figure, then the original
sin of Eden is not real either.
5: Noah constructed an ark on which
pairs of air-breathing, land-dwelling 5: If the original sin of Eden is not real, there is no
animals were saved. need for a savior.
6: There was a catastrophic global flood. 6: If original sin is not real, and humanity does not
need a Savior, the gospel is not true and Christianity
7: The confusion of languages at the itself is false.
Tower of Babel produced different
language groups. 7: Their is clear scientific evidence of a catastrophic
worldwide flood, exactly how Genesis describes it.
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.

The Pre-Flood World
from
In order to study the Genesis Flood, we must recognize that the world we observe today is very
different from both the original creation at Eden and the world as it was in the days of Noah before the
flood. Here is a short introduction to the pre-flood world in Genesis.
FROM CREATION TO THE FLOOD THE LAND CONDITIONS
There is approximately 1,656 years between creation and The pre-flood land was likely one single super-continent,
the time of the Genesis Flood. often called Pangea or Rodinia.
Adam fathered Seth after 130 years (vs. 3) Some of the mountain ranges that exist today, likely did
Seth fathered Enosh after 105 years (vs. 6) not exist in the pre-flood world.
Enosh fathered Kenan after 90 years (vs. 9)
Kenan fathered Mahalalel after 70 years (vs. 12) The Genesis Flood was a catastrophic worldwide event
Mahalalel fathered Jared after 65 years (vs. 15) involving not just flooding, but plate tectonics and
Jared fathered Enoch after 162 years (vs. 18) geophysical realignment.
Enoch fathered Methuselah after 65 years (vs. 21)
Methuselah fathered Lamech after 187 years (vs. 25) Evidence for the super-continent can be seen in the
Lamech fathered Noah after 182 years (vss. 28-29) transcontinental matching of rock layers from the
Noah was 600 years old when the Flood came (Gen. 7:6) Appalachian Mountains of North America to mountains
in England, Norway, and into Russia.
COPYING GILGAMESH
NOAH AND RACIAL DIVERSITY
It is often asserted that the story of the Genesis Flood is
a later copy of the Epic of Gilgamesh, a Babylonian flood It has been suggested that the only way to have a global
story. While there are many similarities between the two, flood and today’s racial diversity is if Noah had one black
this does not require primacy of the Babylonian story. son, one white son, and one brown son. This idea is
The differing details, pettiness of the Babylonian Gods, based on faulty assumptions and poor logic.
and differing details also align to the Babylonian version
being the product of oral transmission of the Genesis 1: It assumes Noah was an Anglo-European man. This is
Flood account that was changed over time. not in the text of the Bible anywhere.
2: It assumes the range of skin colors in humans today
NO NORTH AMERICAN FLOOD had to be same in Noah’s day for them to exist today.
One point that is often made to argue against a global 3: It assumes the alleles for both light and dark skin
flood is the absence of any evidence of a global flood were not present in early humanity.
within the last 12,000 years in North America. It is
claimed that since it’s been established humans have Prior to the flood, all humanity spoke a single language
been living in North America for the past 12,000 years, and had a shared culture. This likely would have resulted
the Genesis Flood had to be local and not global. in a tan or brown complexion which would have been
homogeneous to all humans living in Noah’s day. After
This line of argumentation is built on radiometric dating the confusion of the Tower of Babel, different groups
methods which themselves are suspect and unreliable. separated and began growing completely separate
Radiometric dating begins with unproved assumptions populations. If the allele coding for light and dark skin
which completely undermines its credibility. were present in pre-flood humanity, it would only take a
few generations for visual diversity to appear.
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.