Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for joining us this morning. My name is Bill. It is my privilege to be the pastor and primary teacher here at Catalyst. And here at Catalyst, our vision is to accomplish three things. Our vision as a church is to meet needs, build relationships, and mature Christians. So I want you to say that with me. Our vision here at Catalyst is to meet needs, to build relationships, and to mature Christians. That's our goal. Meet needs, build relationships, and mature Christians. Everything we do centers around those three things. Now there is a debate, and I think it's a healthy debate, and you can let me know on your Connect card today, of what the purpose of the corporate church is when it gathers. Some will say the purpose of the corporate church is to glorify Christ. Some will say the purpose of the corporate church when it gathers is to evangelize the lost. Others will say the purpose of the church when it gathers is to mature Christians. I don't think it's hard to see which one of those categories we're in. So we see our goal of our worship service. Now just because my goal is to help you mature this morning does not mean I also don't want to see lost people come to Christ. I totally do. If you're here and you're questioning does God exist, if there's a God which God exists, then great. I love those questions. Those are very good questions, and we don't want to make anybody feel bad about asking tough questions. But our goal when we come together is to worship God, to open his word, and to be matured learning things together. So we are in a series entitled Gifted, and we are studying the concept of spiritual gifts. Now if you are joining us for the first time, whether you're here in the room or you're joining us online, this sermon series is a little different than one you may have experienced at another church because this is what I call a Q&A series. So every year I try to plan one series where you're allowed to ask questions mid church. So I want to invite everybody who has the Catalyst app to please take out the Catalyst app. You'll notice the very top in blue it says sermon notes. These are our announcements. We'll get to those later. But if you scroll down just underneath of the two Wilmington campus and online campus buttons, you'll see one that says Q&A. I want you to tap on that Q&A button, and it is going to open the sermon Q&A form. As I am teaching this morning, even if you are joining us online, if you are joining us online and you are watching the service in real time, so you're watching the live stream and you're not watching the playback, you are able to ask your questions in real time. They will be sent to the back where our tech team will send them up to me on my phone and we will go through the scriptures together and we will have a fun and enjoyable experience exploring the word of God. So I'm going to get my phone and just sit it here so when questions come in, it'll hopefully grab my attention. Let me give you the key thought that is holding all of these messages together. God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His church. God gives, so He's the gift giver, supernatural gifts, they are from Him, not from us, so there's a supernatural component. They are for His people. Supernatural gifts are for the church of Jesus Christ, not the individual, and its purpose is to build up the church. Now we have been in the book of 1 Corinthians and we're going to continue in there this morning. If you have your Bibles with you, I'd like to invite you to tap or turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 14. 1 Corinthians chapter 14, we're going to begin reading in verse 26. So 1 Corinthians chapter 14 verse 26. While you are turning there, let's just give ourselves a little bit of a background to remind us about where 1 Corinthians is. So who wrote the letter that we now call 1 Corinthians? The Apostle Paul did. That's right. I apologize if you're new here. This is an interactive service so you get to yell back at me. So who wrote the book of 1 Corinthians? Paul did. What is the name of the city that the letter was originally delivered to? Corinth. What is the nickname that I gave at the beginning of this sermon series to describe the first century city of Corinth? Sin City. The first century city of Corinth is the Las Vegas of its day. It is located on a small isthmus of land between two major bodies of water. They would bring in ships with cargo and instead of going around the land, they would basically, if we're talking about Florida for instance, since I'm from Florida, you'd come in at Tampa, you'd go across I-4 and make your eyes bleed because everybody hates that road. All of my friends from Florida, you know it's true. You know it is. So they would come in at Tampa, they would come across, they would leave from Daytona and they would keep going. Well Corinth is in the middle of that land and it is exactly what offers everything sailors want to spend their money on when they get off the boat. So we're talking about a city that is steeped in sin. We're also talking about a city that is very, very wealthy. They had a lot of money. They had a lot of money to spend on not so good things. And so the other thing you need to know about the letter of 1 Corinthians is it is a letter of correction, not necessarily solely a letter of instruction. And that's the difference. You read 1 Timothy for instance, you're reading Paul writing to his protege that he is raising up in ministry and it's largely just a letter of instruction. I would argue Titus is very similar, a letter of instruction. This letter is a letter of correction and that has to flavor the way we read the text. If you were to jump into, and Jim I'm going to skip picking on you for a second, but Mr. Rod is sitting in front of you and he made the mistake of sitting there. So I'm going to pick on him for a minute. If you were to jump into the text correspondence between myself and Mr. Rod and just immediately start taking my words that he and I had in a conversation and applying them to you, you would be wrong because I didn't say those words to you. I said those words in an established relationship and a conversation with Mr. Rod and that's the way it needs to read. Well here's the same thing. Paul has an established relationship with the Corinthian church prior to the letter being written. He traveled through, stopped there, helped start that church unlike the book of Romans. He never visited Romans before he wrote the letter. It's a huge difference. And now he is correcting things that have gone wrong. And I think it's very interesting that the entire subject of spiritual gifts is the focus of 12, 13, and 14 in the middle of the letter of correction. So I want to read chapter 14, 26 to 33, and then we will go back, we will chop it up, we will answer it, and we will also take questions. So here we go, 1 Corinthians chapter 14 beginning in verse 26. What then shall we say, brothers and sisters? When you come together, each of you has a hymn or a word of instruction, a revelation or a tongue or an interpretation. Everything must be done so that the church may be built up. If anyone speaks in a tongue, two or at the most three should speak one at a time and someone must interpret. If there is no interpreter, the speaker should keep quiet in the church and speak to himself and to God. Two or three prophets should speak and the others should weigh carefully what is said. And if a revelation comes to someone who is sitting down, the first speaker should stop. For you can all prophesy in turn so that everyone may be instructed and encouraged. The spirits of the prophets are subject to the control of the prophets. For God is not a God of disorder but of peace, as in all the congregations of the Lord's people. Okay, so let's roll back here and there are several very I think important and key elements to take place here. So let's rewind back. Here's the first thing that I think is Paul is saying and I'm only going to take the first half of verse 26. So this is really 1 Corinthians 14, 26a. The goal of the gifts is the building of the church. So take a look at what he says here. What shall we say, brothers and sisters? See that word brothers and sisters? In the Greek that's Adelphoi, the plural of Adelphos. It means all believers, all Christ followers. So Paul starting with a rhetorical question. So what now all y'all believers? When you come together, each of you has a hymn or a word of instruction, a revelation, a tongue, an interpretation. Everything must be done so the church may be built up. Paul is first addressing an immediate activity that is happening in first century Corinth. And they're outside of the scope of what's happening. But I want you to see something that's really interesting that that we often don't do in our church setting today. And I apologize. The first point that I believe Paul was making is that Christian worship should be communal. Notice that he asks the rhetorical question. He addresses Adelphoi, meaning all believers. And then he says, when you come together, each of you has a hymn or a word of instruction, a revelation or a tongue or interpretation. We don't do church that way here in America. We don't do church where all of a sudden we go, okay, what does the Holy Spirit want to say to the church today? And then we just wait. And then Mr. Rod stands up and he says, you know what, I was praying in the word this week and you know, the Holy Spirit showed me this thing. And he eluded this thing to my mind. And then I asked him, Lord, is this just you're showing it to me or are you showing it for the whole church? And I believe God wants me to share this thing. And so then he starts sharing a thing. And then all of a sudden, Miss Kasha stands up and she is given a revelation in tongues. So she speaks a message and then we sit and we wait. And I don't know, Maria, since you're sitting next to her, then Maria stands up and she interprets that message. So now we've heard a revelation from Mr. Rod. We've heard tongues and interpretation. And then since I'm going to pick on somebody over here, Mr. Fred stands up because he's weird already. So he could be a prophet. That works. Right? So then Mr. Fred stands up and he has a prophetic utterance where he says, God is revealing this thing. And then in the middle of Mr. Fred standing up, Mr. John behind him says, wait, the Lord is sharing the same thing to me. So that Mr. Fred sits down, Mr. John stands up. That is not the way we do church. But that's the way the church was done in the first century. Now there's a lot of reasons for that. Some of that is they did not have the final canonized word of God. Some of that was the supernatural gifts, having to bring everybody together. But some of that was also they didn't have a professional class of ministerial personnel. So let me go ahead and wreck everybody really upset for a second. I'm going to say something that's moderately offensive. And I'm prepping you, right? Seatbacks, tray tables, seatbelts. I'm going to say something moderately offensive. And if this offends you, you're welcome. The fact that the church needs professional ministers is a statement about our collective immaturity. The fact that the church needs a professional class of ministers is a statement about our collective immaturity. Did you know there were no professional pastors for the first few hundred years of the Christian I'm also going to recommend a book that I'm asking you never to read. But if you really, really want to get something under your skin, my wife and I call it the Red Pill. And it's called Pagan Christianity by a gentleman by Frank Viola. He wrote it about 20 years ago. And it traces the history of the Christian faith and the number of things that we rolled in from pagan worship that you don't even realize are pagan worship. Like for instance, how many people are used to seeing churches with steeples on them? Right? Most of us who are older who still know what steeples are before churches were in movie theaters and shopping malls. But churches that have steeples. Did you know that steeples are not Christian in any sense of the word? Steeples are Greek pagan. They were from Greek pagan temples. And when Emperor Constantine made Christianity illegal across the Roman Empire, he raised up certain things about the Christian church to make us equal to the Greco-Roman pagan temples of their day. And one of them was steeples. And another one, professional class of pastors. Now somebody's going to look at me and say, but wait a minute, weren't there priests in the Old Testament? God had priests. God had Levites. Absolutely there were. But they went and served and then they came home and they like worked their land or they shipped their flock or all these other things. The high priest was chosen to serve. But we have a high priest. His name is Jesus. Right? We have the true high priest, the one and only high priest. And I ain't him. I work for him. So this communal aspect of worship has largely been lost in the westernized church service. But you know where it still lives. And now Mr. Jim, I'm going to pick on you. In our small groups, in our men's ministry, in our ladies' ministry, in our youth ministry, in our ministry to children that's happening right now downstairs, in our ministry to teenagers, pray for Pastor Tyler. Both of his children were vomiting last night. That's why he's not here right now. In all of those ways, we still see the communal aspects of worship that God designed for his church. We still see other people ministering, other people teaching other than quote unquote professional guy. But into this environment of communal worship which we don't experience, people were getting a little cray cray. That's an official theological term as of this moment. People were getting too crazy and it was getting too out of hand. So it's into this communal worship environment where the 1st Corinthians are taking it well beyond what it's supposed to be. And everybody is starting to stand up and everybody's speaking in tongues and everybody's fighting for their place in the spotlight. It's into this that he gives the next instruction which is 1st Corinthians chapter 14, 26b. The last part of that verse says, everything must be done so that the church may be built up. I'll read that question, let me get this point and I'll do that question. Everything must be done so the church may be built up. Whatever we do together as the body of Christ, its purpose is always the growth of the body of Christ. We should never get together for the fame of the pastor. We should never get together for the money on the budget line items. When the body of Christ gathers, it is to add to the body. It's to grow us as individuals and grow us as a corporate army. First question came in, how do I know the spiritual gift is from God and not just my own ego wanting praise and acknowledgement? Yes, questioner thank you. Great question. In a lot of ways, this is going to be hard to do in isolation which is why I have to point out the communal aspect of worship in the first century. How do I know I have a spiritual gift of teaching? You know the number one way that I know that is because you're still sitting here. Like the number one thing I would say, if somebody says, do you have a spiritual gift of teaching? My very first question, do other Christians receive teaching from you well? That's part of the whole thing when we go with the search team and the search process. Megan, I know you're in here somewhere. You were on the search team. So was Ms. Lisa. That's part of why that process has to be so long and drawn out. The church is not just trying to hire an employee. The church is trying to go, does this person have the giftings that our church needs? So you're sifting through a giant pile of resumes trying to find the right person with the right education, the right delivery, does they fit with our demographic, all these kinds of things. The first answer I would give to the questioner is, how do I know the spiritual gift is from God? Do God's people receive it from you with joy? Do other people say to you, wow, you are so gifted? I hear that a lot. I hear, wow, I really love listening to you teaching. That confirms for me that me up here doing this thing is not just my own arrogance. That doesn't mean I didn't go to school. That doesn't mean I didn't try to do good at what you want me to do good at. I do strive, I do study, I do work, I do pray. I get up here nervous every single Sunday. That's why I now have a chair so I can sit back and feel a little more relaxed. The second thing is this, to the questioner, I want to praise you for recognizing that spiritual gifts come with ego problems. Thank you for whoever phrased the question this way because there is a huge temptation when you have a gift that puts you in front of the body of Christ to think that the gift is about you and not about him. That's a big temptation. I would say the way to protect against that is you need to have people in your life who you are vulnerable with and who have the authority to check you and put you in line. In my life, the number one person in that role is my wife. No one is less impressed by anything that I do in ministry than Melanie Yomes because at the end of the day, Melanie Yomes doesn't go home with Pastor Bill. Melanie goes home with her husband, Bill Yomes. Trust me, Bill Yomes is not very impressive many times. You have to have people in your life. Besides Melanie, I have two elders who are partners in ministry in this church that I'm constantly checking with, that I'm running my ideas through. We just had to have a conversation this week and I said, guys, my heart is conflicted on this issue. Can you please give me wisdom? Speak to me about what you think is best. And so in doing so, now I'm not just got my wife keeping my ego in check but I have brothers side by side with me keeping my purpose and my function in check. Outside the people in this church, I have two very close friends who speak into my life and I have two mentors who can correct me at will whenever they please. That is all around me so that I don't make this mistake. One of my best friends and mentors watching online right now, if I said something way out of whack, Doug could text my phone mid sermon and be like, bro, you need to get yourself in order. Have all of those protections around you and then you can be free to utilize your gift in a safe manner. Let's be honest, I believe I have a spiritual gift for teaching but that gift for teaching isn't given to me for my benefit. It's actually given to me for y'all's benefit and I only get to use it when I use it correctly for him. I don't get to use this for me, I get to use it for you. So the goal of all the gifts is the building up of the church. Now let's get into the nitty gritty where it gets confusing and possibly difficult. Tongues during worship required order and interpretation. This is verses 27 and 28. So let's look at 27 first. If anyone speaks in a tongue and then he gives instruction, two or three at most should speak one at a time and someone should interpret. Let's just stay on 27 for a minute. Now this is again, so in the debate between continuation and cessationism, continuation is the miraculous gifts can still occur today. Cessationism and miraculous gifts do not occur today. Obviously if you're in the cessationist camp, then you don't really have to worry about the functioning of this verse in the global church today because we don't support the idea that this gift happens today. So if you're in this camp, this verse is one that informs you of the first century church, it doesn't necessarily direct the current church. If you're in the continuationist camp, then this verse becomes very important because we're a Southern Baptist church. We don't actively practice speaking in tongues publicly, right? It has never happened in the three and a half years that I've been here. Mr. Bill, you've been here a few years longer than me, not a lot. Has there ever been a service where someone just stood up and started speaking in tongues? Is there anybody in this room that's been here longer than you? Mr. John, you've been here a while. Ms. Andrea, has there ever been a moment where someone just stood up and started speaking in tongues? Okay, so in the living history of our church, in the elders who have plowed the road for us, we have never experienced this thing happen. But here's what's going to happen. If in any moment from now to eternity future, someone were to stand up and just start speaking in tongues, you go to this verse because this verse gives you, if you're in the continuations category, if you're in the cessationist category, you're going to ask yourself a different set of questions. But if you're in the continuationist category and this happens, we're going to go to this verse, we're going to, okay, Paul has given some clear instructions. Number one, only one voice at a time. Number two, no message without interpretation. If there's no interpretation, then the message shouldn't be there. Now here's the only practical problem I have with this. It requires the use of two separate gifts, which means two separate humans. If the one person stands up and gives the message in tongues and the second person does not stand up to interpret it, generally speaking, everybody looks at the first person and be like, well, you need to sit down and shut up because that's what the Bible says. And you're not wrong. The problem is, is that second person who is supposed to stand up and interpret could have been overly intimidated. And so there's a chance that the first person did exactly what God wanted, but the second person balked and didn't stand up. Now that's only in the continuationist category. In the cessationist, it wouldn't be that way. But this is what he says, if there is no interpreter, the speaker should keep quiet in the church and speak to himself and to God. I want to point out a really interesting question that happens because of this verse, because somebody is going to ask it. How is the speaker in tongues supposed to know who the interpreter is? That verse leaves that question completely unanswered. And I'm going to admit, I don't have an answer, Rob, like I got nothing for you. I'm just saying it's very interesting that Paul is giving these instructions to the first century Corinthian church where they are overusing and outusing and wrongly using the gift of speaking in tongues. But we can walk away with some very clear instructions. If this were to happen, here is the proper mode. Number one, there's only going to be two or three. That's it. We're cutting it off. Number two, it's got to be one at a time so everyone can hear it and it's got to have So everyone can understand what God is saying. It's not about the speaker or the interpreter. But again, from the previous verse, the goal is that everything is done in order to build up the church. And in case you missed it, this is Paul putting direct scriptural limitations on the execution of a spiritual gift. I just want you to see that because there's this idea that says, well, if I'm using my spiritual gift, who are you to tell me not to? Scripture says that all spiritual gifts are used for order for the building of the church. So if you're exercising a spiritual gift in a way that causes disunity, you're out of line and the word authorizes us to correct that. If you are using your spiritual gift in an out of order manner that does not build up the church, then scripture authorizes us to question and help guide that. But I do want you to see that 27 and 28, Paul puts limitations on the execution of spiritual gifts for the purpose of building up the church. Now we keep going. Now you're going to see here, prophecy within corporate worship requires order and verification. He's also putting stipulations on the execution of this gift. So let's jump in here at 29. Two or three prophets should speak. Stop. Did you notice the same numerical limitations? When it came to the gift of tongues and interpretation, Paul said two, maybe three max. Here in the very next verse, with the execution of the gift of prophecy, he says two or three should speak. Limitation question. Is it possible that one person has the gift of tongues and interpretation? I would say on face value, yes, it's possible, but in execution, not at the same time. So let me give an example. Is it possible for Ms. Letha to stand up and give a message in tongues and then over here, Ms. Gretchen to interpret it in one setting. And then on another Sunday in a different setting, Ms. Deb stands up to give a message in tongues and Ms. Letha interprets it. Yes, that is totally possible because it's the Holy Spirit who gives the gifts. But what's not allowable is for Ms. Letha to stand up and give the message in tongues and then translate it herself. Why is that not allowable? Because there's nothing that stops Ms. Lisa from lying. The whole purpose of the speaking in tongues being from one person in a language they did not know and did not learn, right? Speaking in tongues is a human language unlearned by the brain. The whole purpose of having one person do the speaking and another person do the interpreting is to guarantee that the person who's speaking is not crafting the message for what he or she wants to say. So is it possible for someone to be able to exercise both gifts? Again, in the continuationist camp, yes. In the cessationist camp, no. But in the continuationist camp, we still would not want the same person who gives the message to be the same person who does the interpretation because then you might as well just stand up and speak in English. Does that make sense to everybody? All right, so here in 29, he says that two or three prophets should speak. And then here, look what he says after that. And the others should weigh carefully what is said. Now in context, that word others in this verse literally just means others of the same group. So we've got a question that we have to answer here. And that is, is Paul saying who is supposed to evaluate the message given by the prophets? You've got two choices. Either A, others refers to the entire body of Christ, meaning all others who are listening. Or does others refer to anybody else who is known to have that prophetic gifting that those prophets are weighing it? It is unclear which direction that verse is to go. As someone who has the gift of teaching, I'll tell you selfishly, I think that it would be the whole body because you would have the benefit of all of the giftings sifting through the prophecy. So to me, you would want your evangelists and your prophets and your pastors, right? And go over to Ephesians. You would want all of them evaluating a message from God to ensure that it matches everything else we know from God. However, I do have to admit it is possible to interpret verse 29 as the people who would be correctly weighing to make sure that someone is utilizing their gift correctly is others who have that prophetic gift. Next question. Does 27 confirm the private use of tongues? How do you know if your tongue's message is for the church or just your own prayer? I think, so let me answer the question separately. Does it confirm it? No. See, you're looking at the verse and you're seeing the private use of tongues and you're actually reading it into the verse. You're not reading it out of the verse because he's talking about use in corporate worship. So I got to say no to the first half. Does it confirm the private use of tongues? No, I don't think that's a proper verse to confirm that, which is why that's debated. However, second half, how do you know if your tongue's message is for the church or just for your own prayer? I have to say that if you were given the gift of tongues to use publicly and you also were able to use it privately, then God would have to reveal to you the difference. And since he's never revealed that to me, I can't really speak to how that works. What I can tell you is I'm in the camp that thinks that the public and the private are two different gifts. There's another camp over here that doesn't and that's okay too. But in the camp, so in the camp that doesn't, there is no private prayer language. You don't have to deal with the question. In the camp that does, how do you know the difference between those two things? I would then think about, well, let's look at someone who uses the gift of prophecy, right? They're not speaking a foreign language. They're speaking a known language, but they're still speaking under the unction that God says, stand up and tell my people this thing. I would say that unction would have to be there. Stand up and tell my people this thing versus I'm talking to God about this thing. Because somebody who can speak English, you can pray in your head in English, but nobody yet has stood up, at least in the time I've been here, and said, God has told me to say a thus sayeth the Lord kind of comment to the church, even in English. So that kind of thus sayeth the Lord unction would have to only come from him to be able to tell the difference. Next question. If someone stands and begins to speak in tongues and nobody stands to interpret, what does that mean? Great question. It means one of two things in my opinion. A, the person who stood to speak in tongues is wrong. And we have to admit that that's possible. And I think we should also admit that when you're learning how to use spiritual gifts when you're like starting out, it can be very confusing and we should be giving more grace and not judgment. So if someone stands and begins to speak in tongues and nobody stands to interpret, what does that mean? It means A, the person who stood up to speak in tongues should not have stood up and should have just kept it to themselves. That is a possible outcome. B, the person who was meant to interpret did not and they're wrong. That's another possible outcome. Since we're not God and we can't see what God is saying to every single person, I can't rule out B, although I will tell you most people opt for A. Most people opt for A because you can see the person who stood up. You can't see the person who didn't stand up because they're just seated amongst everybody else. But I would say that A and B are both logically possible. And if I'm standing in that moment, in that exact moment, hopefully the Holy Spirit would help me to understand and if it was B, that I would encourage that B person to stand up. If the B person still does not stand up, then I have to default to either the A person was wrong or there's a third answer that scripture doesn't give us and I'm not allowed to make it up. Megan, that's not in the job description. I can't make it up. So does that make sense? A, the person speaking is wrong. B, the person who was supposed to translate did not stand up and that would also be wrong. So here we go. 29, the two of prophets speak. What they speak is weighed carefully. And now we look at this. And if a revelation comes to someone who is sitting down, the first speaker should stop. That's verse 30. Do you know, let me see that one. And if a revelation comes to someone who is sitting down, the first speaker should stop. So I think clearly this is happening in the first century Corinthian church and that's why Paul is addressing it. They were just standing up trying to like prophesy on top of each other in some weird, you know, cacophony kind of way. And Paul is going, that does not bring order to the church. So if someone is speaking and someone else needs to speak, the first person should stop. Next question. Would it be possible for someone to give a word in tongues and then someone watching online to interpret? Well that's a very forward thinking question, Mr. Questioner or Miss Questioner. So the geek in me wants to say, yes, I think that's possible. The pastor in me goes, how's that going to work? Like from a practical perspective, is it possible that somebody is watching online right now? And they're like, wait, I know what that means. And they start typing it out and then somebody tells me and I pull up the live chat and read it. Yeah, that's completely possible. I will admit until the questioner asked that question, I never considered the reality that that could happen because we're so very young in this idea of live streaming church. But I would have to say, okay, and then follow up question, does the interpreter not know the earthly language? I assume the questioner is asking the interpretation of tongues. Yes and possibly also no. So since we know that speaking in tongues is an earthly language, there is the possibility, and in fact, I shared a story that my mentor, Pastor Rick witnessed, where someone stood up to give a message in tongues and the interpreter did not need a spiritual gift of interpretation to interpret it because the interpreter knew what language it was. That's very possible because again, speaking in tongues is an earthly language. Just like when missionaries go out onto the field, there have been reports of missionaries being able to speak the dialect of the place they were at when they never learned it. They don't need an interpreter because they're speaking the language of the people they're speaking to. So is it possible that the interpreter is already knowledgeable in the language that the speaker stood up to speak? Yeah, totally possible. Like if you, I mean, if there was someone in the room who had a Italian in your background and somebody stood up to give a message in tongues and they spoke the same Italian dialect that Miss Rose spoke when she was a child. Miss Rose would likely be able to translate that without needing a spiritual gift. Does anybody else in this room speak Italian fluently? Okay, then in that instance, there would be only one person who could know what that language was, and Miss Rose could translate that if that person spoke in Italian. So the question always becomes what language is being used. Also remember it's a human language. That doesn't mean it's a human language that's alive today. There's lots of languages that have come and gone in the time that humans have been developing. So you could use a language from the time of Abraham and it's still an earthly language. Although I don't believe that, I mean, Miss Rose, you could surprise me and speak ancient Akkadian. That would be really great. So that is how interpretation could happen. So the prophets get up, they're weighed. And he says, if somebody, if the first speaker should sit down, and then he goes, for you can all prophesy in turn so that everyone may be instructed and encouraged. Remember this is a letter of correction. What do you hear here? Mr. Rod, they are way out of base. They're just trying to pile on one another and trying to one up one another so everybody can be seen as spiritual. And guess what happens when you do that? The purpose of the spiritual gifts to benefit and grow the body is thrown right out the window. Because if Sharita were to stand up and the Holy Spirit would ask her to say something to the church and before she could finish, Pete stands up and interrupts her so she never finishes and then Pete starts speaking. And then before Pete can finish, Mr. Tom over here stands up and do you see how anything that God is trying to say to the church is just washed away by the noise of interruption? So he says, for all of you can prophesy in turn so that everyone may be instructed and the spirits of the prophets are subject to the control of the prophets. I want to highlight this verse because depending on what theological background you came from, this verse, I've heard this verse taught a lot of different ways. So again, if you're in the cessationist camp, you don't really have to worry about the functioning application of this verse. But if you're in the Pentecostal Charismatic or Continuationalist camp, what does it mean the spirits of the prophets? So let's first rule out what it doesn't mean. Is there ever a time where the indwelt Holy Spirit of God is subject to the human being that he is indwelt within? No. So we cannot properly apply the spirits of the prophets is that I as a human being get to control or direct the Holy Spirit that is within me. Also you can notice that the word there is not translated or is not capitalized. In English, we do that to denote when the spirit is being mentioned. So we are not talking about the Holy Spirit. We are talking about the spirit within the human being, their will, their passion. And if I'm tracking in this language where he's seeing the whole first Corinthians Church and everybody's just popping up doing their own thing and everybody's all the spirits on me. I got to say this thing. No, bro. You're passionate. You're excited. If your passion and your excitement are subject to your own personal will for the benefit of the whole church, we're going to have all you passionate, excited people go in line because the whole purpose, if you're truly passionate and excited about sharing what God wants to share with the church, it should be about benefiting the church, not about making you look good. Question. When someone speaks in tongues, excuse me, when someone speaks in tongues, does what they say have to be in the Bible or can it be new revelation? Good question. You asked a very theologically technical question because you used the word revelation. So let me define the word revelation first so I can further define my answer. So when we talk about the theological definition of the word revelation, we are saying God revealing himself. That's what it comes from. So there are two ways in which God reveals himself on earth. The first is called general revelation. That's looking at creation and seeing that there's a God. Looking up at the night sky in amazement and realizing that there's a God. Looking at the complexity of human DNA and seeing that there must be an intelligent creator behind the functioning of human DNA. That's general revelation. Then on top of general revelation, there is special revelation. That scripture that comes with the full weight and authority of God's words. That's special revelation. I believe the questioner is, I'm sorry, is the questioner in the room? Like whoever asked this question. Guys, I'm going to assume the questioner is asking, does a message in tongues plus interpretation have the same weight as the revealed words of scripture? I think that's what the questioner is asking and my answer would be absolutely not. It does not have the same revealed weight as scripture. That does not mean that God, and we use the word revelation or to reveal in the colloquial sense that God is speaking to his people in the same way that I may be trying to expound the word of God, but no one in their right mind thinks that everything I'm saying right now is equal to the actual text of the Bible. So in the same way that the gift of teaching may expound scripture, but not equal to it or replace it. The gift of prophecy could expound from scripture, but not be equal or replace it. It's an interpretation of tongues may expound scripture, but it cannot equal or replace it. If the questioner is asking revelation in the colloquial common person sense of that God might reveal something new. Yes, but I would caution the word revelation. I am not going to say in any stretch that tongues plus interpretation can equal the authority of revealed scripture. I just do not think that is what Paul is saying. If you would like to debate or disagree with me about that, we could do so on your connect card. I think you're putting yourself in really dangerous category. If you want to say that a tongues plus interpretation should be considered equal to the Holy writ That's a super dangerous slope that I could not even begin to warn you away from. But I have heard people try to say that. And so I think that's what the questioner is asking with the question. The spirits of the prophets are subject to the control of the prophets. That's the inner excitement of the prophet. That's not like the prophet has to control the spirit of God or the group of prophets have to control the individual prophet. He's saying for the benefit of the church we need things to be done in order you can hold your horses of excitement because what benefits the body is more important than you being excited about what you have to say. Does that make sense? It's like the new international bill version. Does the absence of a spiritual gift suggest that a person's faith or closeness to God isn't as deep as they assume? Interesting question. So what we're saying is does the absence of a spiritual gift suggest that a person's faith or closeness to God isn't as deep as they assume? I think no. And here's why I think no. Paul is making it super clear that the purpose of spiritual gifts is for the benefit of the corporate church. I think it is totally possible for someone to be fully spiritually mature and also completely disengaged from serving the corporate church and thereby the reasoning why we don't see a spiritual gift happening in their life isn't their lack of maturity. It's their lack of activity. If you're not actively working and serving in the local church, the very place where spiritual gifts were designed to benefit, then your lack of being used by God to have a spiritual gift has nothing to do with your personal maturity. It has everything to do with you're not actually playing a game. If I were to just change it away from spiritual gifts and use like an athletic analogy, Mr. Bill help me here make sure I get this right. Does the absence of someone being able to be a quarterback suggest that they're not a good athlete or that they're just not actually on the field? Did I get that right? Kind of. I'm not a sports ball person. I can give you a chess analogy, but then like me and my son Mike are the only two that are going to get it. And Emily, yeah. My kids are the only ones that are going to get the chess jokes. Sorry about that. No, I would say that the lack, if you see an absence of spiritual gifts in your life, first question would have to be are you saved? Because spiritual gifts aren't given to non-believers, right? My second follow-up question, are you serving in a capacity in the local church to allow those gifts to come out? Because if you're just coming and sitting in church, then there's no function for you having a gift. Follow-up question, can you give an example of some of the lesser gifts working in the church? Can the questioner follow up with what they mean by lesser gifts? Because are we saying like non-spiritual ones, like the non-supernatural ones, like administration? Have you met me? Our church has a lot of administratively gifted people just so I can stay on the rails. You should come to an administrative leaders meeting sometime. Half the room is there just to keep the cats in order. And Ms. Donna has to sit next to me. You already said that. Can we go again, please? Yeah. I would say, so if we're saying, oh, okay, faith, hospitality, thank you. I would say the gift of faith, that's a gift that works through a person. How it applies could be very different. You could have the gift of faith to pray for someone. You could have the gift of faith to evangelize someone. You could have the gift of faith to stand up and challenge someone in an area of their life that you're not sure if you've got the friendship to challenge them on, but the Holy Spirit wants them to be challenged. Hospitality, I'll give you a great example. We had a first-time guest in our church last Sunday. It was the first Sunday that that person visited our church. They filled out a plan of guest service a few weeks ago. They came, they visited with their children. They sat right back in that section over there. When they left, Miss Casey, who was on our communications team, she built a first-time guest survey that we could send to them and ask them. I would just love feedback. Like, what's the first impression we make as a church? You know, the very first sentence? Everyone was so welcoming. You can't buy that, guys. You can't buy a church that loves people. But in that instance, I would say, there are some of you who are very, very friendly. We want you on the hospitality team. The rest of you, perhaps Mr. Bill would like you on the counting team. Right? And I'm not saying Mr. Bill's not a friendly person, just so we're clear. I'm saying the purpose of spiritual gifts is to grow us individually and as a body. The spirits of the prophets are subject. That's your energy. Then we get down to verse 33. Corporate worship is a reflection of unity. For God is not a God of disorder, but of peace. Stop. If you have to say that in a letter of correction, can you see what the situation must be? There must be disorder if Paul is having to tell them God is not a God of disorder, but of order. There must be a lack of peace if God is having to tell them God is a God of peace. You see that? So when we read that sentence, for God is not a God of disorder, probably which all we're doing, but a peace which all should have been doing. As in all the congregations of the Lord's people. Now there's two different ways you can serve this last part of this verse here. Number one is more of a rhetorical. Paul is saying, and June, I'm going to pick on you because you're sitting there and you look pretty today. So June is at the first century church and she and Steve are the instigators of all of this ruckus. Right? Steve is such a loud guy, right? He's so hard to keep under control. So Steve and June are the instigators of all this kind of ruckus that's happening in the church. And Paul is saying, Steve, my bro, God is not a God of disorder, but of peace. And then he says, as in all the congregations, he's either saying, Steve and June, wheel it in because that's God's purpose for the church. He's saying, y'all need to wheel it in because Jerry and Jen have got things on lock over in Philippi. They're doing the right thing. Jim and Lisa over in Ephesus, they're worshiping the right way. Megan and Jesse over there in, I don't know, pick another New Testament city. Pick whichever one you want. Thyatira, you can have that one. Right? Thyatira's got it on lock. And then we come back, June, Steve, why can y'all not figure out how to do what Jerry and Jen and Jim and Lisa and Megan and Jesse and all the other churches of the first century? They figured it out. What's wrong with y'all? So the second one comes with a little bit more of a barbed nature to it. I can't tell you for certain whether Paul is comparing the first century church to the purpose of the church that would fit very cleanly with the context, right? Very clean. Or is the fact that Paul planted many of the other churches in the first century and he visited Megan and Jesse over in Thyatira and he visited Jim and Lisa at Ephesus. No, wherever I stuck you, I forget. See that's why. That's why we need administrative people in the church. Because I forget what I say. What I can tell you is whatever June and Steve were doing at the first century church in Corinth was very disordered. It was not bringing God glory and the gifts were all just really nearly being used and everybody was yelling on top of each other and they were getting drunk and they were giving better seats to people with money and poorer seats to people without money and it was very disorganized. And he says here, for God is not a God of disorder but of peace and he's that way in all the congregations of the Lord's people. Now in our form of worship today, it's very ordered and it's stylized and the worship team comes up and they rehearse and they have their peace and if you've come to Catalyst for at least more than one service, you recognize that our service order stays relatively the same. Melanie plans our service order for our church. She could and go, you know what, I want to and move worship to a different part of the church. If I were teaching on worship, maybe it would be better to do the teaching first and worship at the end. We've done that before. But for the most part, the order of our service stays the same. We worship, then there's a transition, then there's a teaching, then there's another transition, then there's offering, then there's announcements like we do the same way every time. It's very ordered. In that way, we're doing a good job because scripture tells us to do that. You just got to remember that in the first century, June and Steve were a hot mess and whatever was happening, they were utilizing spiritual gifts but not in the right way. And that's why it's super important when we read this section of scripture and we understand that it is a corrective letter to instruct on the proper use of spiritual gifts because there was some crazy mess going on. We don't want to read it as just straight instruction. We want to try to read it from the lens of what was the problem if this was the correction. So does that make sense to everybody? Alright, so let me give you the takeaway as we bring this one in for a landing. Usher's and worship team, I'm going to ask everybody to take their places for the ending of the service. Here's your takeaway. Christians have a responsibility to use spiritual gifts as part of the corporate worship to build up the church. Christians have a responsibility to use spiritual gifts as part of corporate worship to build up the church. What your spiritual gift is, is up to the Holy Spirit, not to me. That's his job. But I can tell you, the purpose of our gathering together as a church is to grow as individuals and to grow the global body of Christ. Catalyst Community Church is not the sole scope of the global body of Christ. And I'll just tell you right now, if anybody's wondering, what is my long-term, long-range plan for church growth? I can tell you. Grow until we don't fit here, plant a church. I think that's a completely easy thing. Grow until you can't fit. Start new churches. That's what we've been doing for 2,000 years. And I got to say, I think it's a good strategy. I think you don't just need to keep growing and keep growing and keep growing because in our society, that just creates more and more indebtedness. We can grow and then keep the body of Christ growing.