GIFTED: Introduction to Spiritual Gifts
Tuesday, July 28, 2020 10:45 AM
Key Thought:
God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His
Church.
--
GIFTED: Introduction to Spiritual Gifts
1 Corinthians 12:1-11
--
Background:
Corinth was a NEW city
Corinth was a WEALTHY city
Corinth was a WICKED city
1 Corinthians is a letter of CORRECTION. When the Corinthians
became Christians, they brought their wealthy, self-important,
and liberty-seeking culture with them into the church.
This is the setting for the Apostle Paul's writing the letter.
In this section, Paul is addressing irregularities in worship. The
balancing of individual Christian freedom with the focus or
purpose of the church as a whole.
--
PAGAN Ecstasy and Spiritual GIFTS are NOT THE SAME
1 Corinthians 12:1-3
--
GIFTED Page 1

--
1: Now about the gifts of the Spirit, brothers and sisters, I do not
want you to be uninformed.
Spiritual Things - "gifts" is not in the Greek text
Brothers and sisters - /adelphoi/ all believers
Uninformed - ironically, the Corinthians prided themselves
on their spirituality
2: You know that when you were pagans, somehow or other
you were influenced and led astray to mute idols.
Pagans - /ethnos/ lit. "people; gentiles"
Influenced/Lead - lit. "carried; brought; guided"
Astray - not in the text
Mute - /aphonos/ lit. "silent or speechless"
Idols - a human-formed object of worship
3: Therefore I want you to know that no one who is speaking by
the Spirit of God says, “Jesus be cursed,” and no one can say,
“Jesus is Lord,” except by the Holy Spirit.
Therefore - a response to the action of "lead away"
No speaking - lit. "you know no speaking by the Spirit of
God says"
Context: Paul is correcting a church that has allowed too much
worldly influence into their community. He offers them a
GIFTED Page 2

worldly influence into their community. He offers them a
simple test: a confession of words to reveal the submission of
the heart
Jesus be cursed - either cursing Jesus or cursing someone in
the name of Jesus; either way, attempting to stand above
the authority of Christ
Jesus is Lord - submission to the will of Christ
Counterfeit: US Secret Service
Christians ought to judge things of the Spirit by the CONTENT,
not the CONTACT
The GIVER of the Gifts is the HOLY SPIRIT
1 Corinthians 12:4
There are different kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit distributes
them.
Different kinds of gifts - Christian unity does not require
uniformity
Same Spirit - the Spirit distributes the gifts
We don't influence His choices, so we shouldn’t judge them
either.
GIFTED Page 3

The FUNCTION of the Gifts is for SERVICE
1 Corinthians 12:5
There are different kinds of service, but the same Lord.
Kinds of service - different gifts for different service
Same Lord - we all serve the same Lord
The POWER of the Gifts come from the SAME GOD
1 Corinthians 12:6
There are different kinds of working, but in all of them and in
everyone it is the same God at work.
Different kinds of working - spiritual gifts are meant for
"work" or "operation" or "putting forth of power"
Same God at work - we are all working for the same goal
The FOCUS of the Gifts is the CHURCH, not the INDIVIDUAL
1 Corinthians 12:7
Now to each one the manifestation of the Spirit is given for the
GIFTED Page 4

Now to each one the manifestation of the Spirit is given for the
common good.
Manifestation - a visible expression or indication of the
presence of the Spirit
Common good - the term here is a plural object; this means
the gifts are for the CHURCH, not the individual
List of Spiritual Gifts
1 Corinthians 12:8-11
--
To one there is given through the Spirit a message of wisdom,
to another a message of knowledge by means of the same
Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of
healing by that one Spirit, to another miraculous powers, to
another prophecy, to another distinguishing between spirits, to
another speaking in different kinds of tongues, and to still
another the interpretation of tongues. All these are the work of
one and the same Spirit, and he distributes them to each one,
just as he determines.
This is not the only list!
There are several lists gifts given to the church:
1 Corinthians 12:8-11
Romans 12:6-8
Ephesians 4:11
GIFTED Page 5

Word of Wisdom: a Spirit-born ability to speak insight or
application of knowledge to a situation
Word of Knowledge: a Spirit-born ability to speak knowledge or
understanding
Gift of Faith: a Spirit-born faith that exceeds the trust all
believers have in Christ. Possibly, the ability to hold to faith in
the most trying or dire of circumstances.
Gift of Healing: a Spirit-born ability to bring healing,
restoration, or cure of either physical or spiritual weakness.
Working of Miracles: a Spirit-born ability to work miracles. Paul
doesn’t offer any more insight.
Miracle: a working of God for His people or purposes that
exceeds any natural explanation
Prophecy: a Spirit-born ability to speak and/or apply God's
Word to God's people either in the near or distant future
Important: Difference between a OT prophet, NT prophet,
and the gift of prophecy
Distinguishing of Spirits: a Spirit-born ability to determine a
Godly or demonic source for a message or miracle
Speaking in Tongues: a Spirit-born ability to speak an un-
GIFTED Page 6

Speaking in Tongues: a Spirit-born ability to speak an un-
learned language
Interpretation of Tongues: a Spirit-born ability to translate an
un-learned language
The Takeaway:
The Holy Spirit chooses and distributes supernatural gifts to
individual Christians for the singular purpose of serving in the
Lord's Church. We are not to judge nor be jealous of the gifts
the Spirit decides to give to other believers.
Discussion Questions:
1: What comes to mind when you hear the term “spiritual
gifts”? Have you ever identified or used one?
2: How does knowing that the Holy Spirit chooses the gifts “as
He determines” affect your perspective on the gifts you have—
or don't have?
GIFTED Page 7

GIFTED: Why Different Gifts?
Tuesday, August 4, 2020 12:08 PM
Key Thought:
God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His
Church.
GIFTED: Why Different Gifts?
1 Corinthians 12:12-31
Introduction:
Ratchet set with only one head...
recognize it is a gift
•
appreciate it is a gift
•
appreciate the gift is also a tool
•
look forward to using the tool
•
5 Functions of Different Spiritual Gifts
The Holy Spirit creates diversity within unity
1 Corinthians 12:12-14
Just as a body, though one, has many parts, but all its many
parts form one body, so it is with Christ. For we were all
baptized by one Spirit so as to form one body—whether Jews or
Gentiles, slave or free—and we were all given the one Spirit to
drink. Even so the body is not made up of one part but of many.
GIFTED Page 8

One body / many parts - The body is meant to be a diverse
unity, not unyielding uniformity
All baptized - all believers have the indwelt Spirit
Form one body - BECAUSE of the indwelt Spirit, we are all
ONE BODY
Jew/Gentile; Slave/free - these are examples in the day of
groups that were always separate, not unified
"The indwelling of the Holy Spirit unifies all believers
regardless of their worldly differences."
Differing gifts do not assign VALUE or BELONGING
1 Corinthians 12:15-16
Now if the foot should say, “Because I am not a hand, I do not
belong to the body,” it would not for that reason stop being
part of the body. And if the ear should say, “Because I am not
an eye, I do not belong to the body,” it would not for that
reason stop being part of the body.
Because I am not - claiming authority over one's self;
defining by function, not by the Spirit Himself
I do not belong - claiming authority to exclude from the
Body of Christ
GIFTED Page 9

Body of Christ
And if the ear - same as previous; doublet
Differing Gifts are for the function of the body
1 Corinthians 12:17-21
If the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of
hearing be? If the whole body were an ear, where would the
sense of smell be? But in fact God has placed the parts in the
body, every one of them, just as he wanted them to be. If they
were all one part, where would the body be? As it is, there are
many parts, but one body. The eye cannot say to the hand, “I
don’t need you!” And the head cannot say to the feet, “I don’t
need you!”
If the whole body were - myopic perspective of the Body
Where would - the question implies the outcome of
viewing one function over others
God has placed - only God has the authority to place the
parts of the Body where He sees fit. This God-driven
diversity is what is BEST for the Church
I don't need you - no believer if lesser or greater than
another because the Spirit has made us equals
GIFTED Page 10

Spirit-born unity requires shared responsibility
1 Corinthians 12:22-26
On the contrary, those parts of the body that seem to be weaker
are indispensable, and the parts that we think are less
honorable we treat with special honor. And the parts that are
unpresentable are treated with special modesty, while our
presentable parts need no special treatment. But God has put
the body together, giving greater honor to the parts that lacked
it, so that there should be no division in the body, but that its
parts should have equal concern for each other. If one part
suffers, every part suffers with it; if one part is honored, every
part rejoices with it.
On the contrary - God's thinking is the opposite of our
earthly thinking
No division in the body - Paul is correcting "divisions" that
exist within the Corinthian church because they are
misusing Spirit gifts
Equal concern - God's expectation for people in His church
Our Different Gifts make us equal in RELATIONSHIP, but not in
FUNCTION
1 Corinthians 12:27-31
GIFTED Page 11

Now you are the body of Christ, and each one of you is a part of
it. And God has placed in the church first of all apostles, second
prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, of
helping, of guidance, and of different kinds of tongues. Are all
apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work
miracles? Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak in tongues?
Do all interpret? Now eagerly desire the greater gifts. And yet I
will show you the most excellent way.
Each one of you - every believer is a part
First, second, third - not likely to be "rank" or importance;
rather listed first because they were being lessened or
ignored in the Corinthian church at the time
Closing:
the ratchet set
not understanding the difference is like not seeing the lack
•
of different sizes
"it must not be God's will" is a convenient excuse for lack of
•
faith or understanding
The Takeaway:
Spiritual Gifts are different because they promote diversity
within Christian unity. We are all relationally equal but
functionally different.
GIFTED Page 12

GIFTED: The Supremacy of Love
Tuesday, August 11, 2020 10:43 AM
Key Thought:
God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His
Church.
--
Spiritual Gifts are FRUITLESS without LOVE
1 Corinthians 13:1-3
--
If I speak in the tongues of men or of angels, but do not have
love, I am only a resounding gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have
the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all
knowledge, and if I have a faith that can move mountains, but
do not have love, I am nothing. If I give all I possess to the poor
and give over my body to hardship that I may boast, but do not
have love, I gain nothing.
--
Tongues: without love is just noise (NO VALUE)
Prophecy, Knowledge, Faith: without love is "nobody" (NO
STATUS)
Sacrifice of self: without love gains nothing (NO BENEFIT)
--
Spiritual Love is RELATIONAL in nature
1 Corinthians 13:4-5
--
Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it
is not proud. It does not dishonor others, it is not self-seeking, it
is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs.
GIFTED Page 13

is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs.
--
Patient & Kind: both values require care and concern for
another over one's self
Envy, Boast, Proud: each devalues one in relational to another
Dishonor, self-seeking, angered, record of wrongs: the
outworkings of lacking relational love
--
Spiritual Love is ROOTED in CHRIST
1 Corinthians 13:6-7
--
Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. It
always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always
perseveres.
--
delight in evil: to rejoice, be glad, or enjoy evil, Godly love
abhors evil
rejoices with the truth: God is truth and thus is the definition
of true love
protects: to cover like a thatch roof
trusts: to have confidence in belief
hopes: to wait with joy (return of Christ)
perververes: to remain or endure steadfastly
--
Spiritual Love will last longer than Spiritual Gifts
1 Corinthians 12:8-9
--
GIFTED Page 14

--
Love never fails. But where there are prophecies, they will
cease; where there are tongues, they will be stilled; where there
is knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part and we
prophesy in part, but when completeness comes, what is in part
disappears.
--
never fails: never moves DOWN from its place of supremacy
(HIGHER TO LOWER)
prophecies, tongues, knowledge: only temporary
know, prophesy: only partial
--
Spiritual Gifts will last until the return of Christ
1 Corinthians 12:11-13
--
When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I
reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put the ways of
childhood behind me. For now we see only a reflection as in a
mirror; then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part; then I
shall know fully, even as I am fully known. And now these three
remain: faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love.
--
child>man: love matures
reflection, face to face: the return of Christ
now, then: at the return of Christ we will not need Spiritual
Gifts because we will have Christ
faith: in Christ our Savior
hope: in the return of Christ
love: in the Body of Christ
GIFTED Page 15

love: in the Body of Christ
the greatest: love the greatest because it is our relational
example of Christ
--
The Takeaway:
Christians are to love another with spiritual gifts until Christ's
return. If the use of a gift does not reflect the love of Christ, it is
immature, incorrect, and fruitless.
GIFTED Page 16

GIFTED: Speaking in Tongues
Tuesday, August 18, 2020 11:20 AM
Key Thought:
God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His
Church.
--
GIFTED: Speaking in Tongues
1 Corinthians 14:1-19
--
Setting:
The letter of 1st Corinthians is corrective in nature. Paul is
addressing a church that is not using their Spiritual Gifts
correctly. Our text this week illustrates the misuse of the gift of
Tongues at Corinth. The Corinthians focused too heavily on the
use of the gift, and not the purpose of the gift. We must learn
from their mistake, but resist the temptation to ignore the
teaching because of our personal theology.
++++++++++++++++++++
FROM LAST WEEK:
Spiritual Love will last longer than Spiritual Gifts
1 Corinthians 13:8-9
--
Love never fails. But where there are prophecies, they will
cease; where there are tongues, they will be stilled; where there
is knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part and we
prophesy in part, but when completeness comes, what is in part
disappears.
GIFTED Page 17

disappears.
--
never fails: never moves DOWN from its place of supremacy
(HIGHER TO LOWER)
prophecies, tongues, knowledge: only temporary
know, prophesy: only partial
--
Spiritual Gifts will last until the return of Christ
1 Corinthians 13:11-13
--
When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I
reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put the ways of
childhood behind me. For now we see only a reflection as in a
mirror; then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part; then I
shall know fully, even as I am fully known. And now these three
remain: faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love.
--
child>man: love matures
reflection, face to face: the return of Christ
now, then: at the return of Christ we will not need Spiritual
Gifts because we will have Christ
faith: in Christ our Savior
hope: in the return of Christ
love: in the Body of Christ
the greatest: love the greatest because it is our relational
example of Christ
++++++++++++++
GIFTED Page 18

Speaking in Tongues can become self focused
1 Corinthians 14:1-4
--
Follow the way of love and eagerly desire gifts of the Spirit,
especially prophecy. For anyone who speaks in a tongue does
not speak to people but to God. Indeed, no one understands
them; they utter mysteries by the Spirit. But the one who
prophesies speaks to people for their strengthening,
encouraging and comfort. Anyone who speaks in a tongue
edifies themselves, but the one who prophesies edifies the
church.
--
Follow Love - the previous chapter is the setting for the
warning about Tongues
eagerly desire - we should desire the use of our spiritual gifts
especially prophecy - gifts that "edify" or help to build up the
church
Prophecy: a Spirit-born ability to speak and/or apply God's
Word to God's people either in the near or distant future
Important: Difference between a OT prophet, NT prophet,
and the gift of prophecy
edifies themselves - there is a self-growth component to the
gift of Tongues
--
Speaking in Tongues with Interpretation benefits the Church
GIFTED Page 19

Speaking in Tongues with Interpretation benefits the Church
1st Corinthians 14:5
--
I would like every one of you to speak in tongues, but I would
rather have you prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater
than the one who speaks in tongues, unless someone interprets,
so that the church may be edified.
--
every one of you - Paul is saying he wishes everyone would, not
must
rather you prophesy - this gift is builds up the church as a body,
not just the individual
unless someone interprets - tongues WITH interpretation is the
same as prophecy
--
Speaking in Tongues without corporate Understanding is
Useless to the Church
1st Corinthians 14:6-9
--
Now, brothers and sisters, if I come to you and speak in
tongues, what good will I be to you, unless I bring you some
revelation or knowledge or prophecy or word of instruction?
Even in the case of lifeless things that make sounds, such as the
pipe or harp, how will anyone know what tune is being played
unless there is a distinction in the notes? Again, if the trumpet
does not sound a clear call, who will get ready for battle? So it is
with you. Unless you speak intelligible words with your tongue,
how will anyone know what you are saying? You will just be
speaking into the air.
--
GIFTED Page 20

--
what good will I be TO YOU - the focus of the gift is corporate
make sounds - like the previous chapter, Tongues is useless
without love AND learning
intelligible words - the gift of tongues allowed them to speak
without understanding
speaking into the air - tongues not used to benefit the church is
"just air"
--
Speaking in Tongues tempts the separation of Spiritual
Gifts from their meaning
1st Corinthians 14:10-12
--
Undoubtedly there are all sorts of languages in the world, yet
none of them is without meaning. If then I do not grasp the
meaning of what someone is saying, I am a foreigner to the
speaker, and the speaker is a foreigner to me. So it is with you.
Since you are eager for gifts of the Spirit, try to excel in those
that build up the church.
--
all languages... without meaning - all languages, including
Tongues, has meaning
do not grasp the meaning - the purpose of language is
communication
foreigner - there is no relationship or unity in the individual use
of tongues
so it is with you - the Corinthian church was using tongues
incorrectly
--
GIFTED Page 21

The personal use of Speaking in Tongues does not cancel its
corporate purpose
1st Corinthians 14:13-19
--
For this reason the one who speaks in a tongue should pray that
they may interpret what they say. For if I pray in a tongue, my
spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful. So what shall I do? I will
pray with my spirit, but I will also pray with my understanding; I
will sing with my spirit, but I will also sing with my
understanding. Otherwise when you are praising God in the
Spirit, how can someone else, who is now put in the position of
an inquirer, say “Amen” to your thanksgiving, since they do not
know what you are saying? You are giving thanks well enough,
but no one else is edified. I thank God that I speak in tongues
more than all of you. But in the church I would rather speak five
intelligible words to instruct others than ten thousand words in
a tongue
--
for this reason - the need for Tongues to be used with meaning
I will also pray - Paul is not saying he DOESN'T pray in tongues,
but that he also prays with his mind
Praising "in the Spirit" - the use of Tongues in praising and
worshiping God
Giving thanks well enough - praying and worshiping with the
Spirit is valid, but only for the individual
--
The Takeaway:
Spiritual Gifts can also help us grow in our faith, but that
benefit should never replace the main goal of growing the
church. When we use our gifts to their fullest extent, we grow
GIFTED Page 22

church. When we use our gifts to their fullest extent, we grow
in maturity as the church grows in ministry.
GIFTED Page 23

GIFTED: Tongues & Prophecy
Tuesday, August 25, 2020 10:15 AM
Key Thought:
God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His
Church.
--
GIFTED: Proper Use of Spiritual Gifts
1 Corinthians 14:20-25
--
Understanding Spiritual Gifts requires maturity
1 Corinthians 14:20
--
Brothers and sisters, stop thinking like children. In regard to evil
be infants, but in your thinking be adults.
--
Brothers and sisters - spiritual gifts are intended for use in
unity
thinking - understanding, knowing, using the noodle
like children - there must be maturity to use the gifts correctly
evil be infants - be "un-knowing" of things opposed to God
--
Maturity is measured in the ministry
1 Corinthians 14:21
--
In the Law it is written: “With other tongues and through the
lips of foreigners I will speak to this people, but even then they
will not listen to me, says the Lord.”
GIFTED Page 24

will not listen to me, says the Lord.”
--
OT quote - (Isaiah 28:11-12) drunken priests are teaching
immature legalism
--
5 In that day the Lord Almighty
will be a glorious crown,
a beautiful wreath
for the remnant of his people.
6 He will be a spirit of justice
to the one who sits in judgment,
a source of strength
to those who turn back the battle at the gate.
7 And these also stagger from wine
and reel from beer:
Priests and prophets stagger from beer
and are befuddled with wine;
they reel from beer,
they stagger when seeing visions,
they stumble when rendering decisions.
8 All the tables are covered with vomit
and there is not a spot without filth.
9 “Who is it he is trying to teach?
To whom is he explaining his message?
To children weaned from their milk,
GIFTED Page 25

To children weaned from their milk,
to those just taken from the breast?
10 For it is:
Do this, do that,
a rule for this, a rule for that[a];
a little here, a little there.”
11 Very well then, with foreign lips and strange tongues
God will speak to this people,
12 to whom he said,
“This is the resting place, let the weary rest”;
and, “This is the place of repose”—
but they would not listen.
--
Different gifts target different audiences
1 Corinthians 14:22
--
Tongues, then, are a sign, not for believers but for unbelievers;
prophecy, however, is not for unbelievers but for believers.
--
Tongues - for CONVERSION, as in Acts, to see the power of God
at work in His people
Prophecy - for MATURITY, to grow believers in maturity in their
faith
--
Misuse of Spiritual Gifts creates confusion
1 Corinthians 14:23
GIFTED Page 26

1 Corinthians 14:23
--
So if the whole church comes together and everyone speaks in
tongues, and inquirers or unbelievers come in, will they not say
that you are out of your mind?
--
whole church - the focus on the corporate unity of the Church
everyone speaks in tongues - unintelligible to the human mind
inquirers - those who are seeking
unbelievers - those who are unconverted
out of your mind - the impression of the corporate meeting is
of "crazy" not "Christ"
--
Proper use of Spiritual Gifts creates conviction
1 Corinthians 14:24-25
--
But if an unbeliever or an inquirer comes in while everyone is
prophesying, they are convicted of sin and are brought under
judgment by all, as the secrets of their hearts are laid bare. So
they will fall down and worship God, exclaiming, “God is really
among you!”
--
but - the focus changes, now the gifts are used properly
unbeliever/inquirer - same unconverted witnesses as before
prophesying - speaking that which the intelligible mind
understands
convicted of sin - the Holy Spirit's work on the heart of the
unbeliever
secrets of their heart are laid bare - a work of the gift of
GIFTED Page 27

secrets of their heart are laid bare - a work of the gift of
prophecy that is undeniable
God is really among you - the final outcome is the praise of
God, not man
--
The Takeaway:
When Spiritual Gifts are used immaturely and incorrectly, they
can lead to confusion and denial of the faith. When they are
used correctly, they always point directly to Christ and lead to
conversion.
GIFTED Page 28

GIFTED: Spiritual Gifts in Worship
Tuesday, September 1, 2020 10:54 AM
Key Thought:
God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His
Church.
GIFTED: Worship with Spiritual Gifts
1 Corinthians 14:26-33
Christian worship should be communal.
1 Corinthians 14:26a
What then shall we say, brothers and sisters? When you come
together, each of you has a hymn, or a word of instruction, a
revelation, a tongue or an interpretation.
brothers and sisters - adelphoi; all believers
come together - worship is a group activity
each of you - individual gifting within corporate worship
hymn, instruction, revelation, tongue, interpretation - varying
gifts used in combination
The goal of the gifts is building the Church.
1 Corinthians 14:26b
Everything must be done so that the church may be built up.
GIFTED Page 29

Everything must be done so that the church may be built up.
everything - this doesn't leave room for "anything"
must be done - imperative instruction
the church - corporate perspective
be built up - corporate church, not individuals
Tongues during worship requires order and interpretation.
1 Corinthians 14:27-28
If anyone speaks in a tongue, two—or at the most three—
should speak, one at a time, and someone must interpret. If
there is no interpreter, the speaker should keep quiet in the
church and speak to himself and to God.
if anyone - the perspective is now the individual as a part of the
whole
speaks in a tongue - specific gift
two or three at most - it was a widely used gift
one at a time - orderly use for worship
someone must interpret - the function is for the Church
if there is no - likely the situation in Corinth with everyone
"speaking into the air"
keep quiet - a direct restriction of a gift for the corporate
benefit
speak to God - the personal gift was not denied, but
constrained during corporate worship
GIFTED Page 30

constrained during corporate worship
Prophecy in corporate worship requires order and verification.
1 Corinthians 14:29-32
Two or three prophets should speak, and the others should
weigh carefully what is said. And if a revelation comes to
someone who is sitting down, the first speaker should stop. For
you can all prophesy in turn so that everyone may be instructed
and encouraged. The spirits of prophets are subject to the
control of prophets.
two or three - orderly use for worship
others - others with the prophetic gift
should weight carefully - in the church the gifting still had
verification
revelation - lit. to lay open, make bare, or uncover fig. to learn
something new
first should stop - a direct restriction of a gift for the corporate
benefit
Corporate worship is a reflection of unity
1 Corinthians 14:33
For God is not a God of disorder but of peace—as in all the
congregations of the Lord’s people.
GIFTED Page 31

God is - the activity of the church is a reflection of the character
of God
not a God of disorder - because our God is orderly, so should
we be
all the congregations - the Corinthians were not the only
church
of the Lord's people - they were not the only people in the
Kingdom and thus didn't get to decide how to use the gifts
The Takeaway:
Christians have a responsibility to use spiritual gifts as a part of
the corporate worship to build up the church.
GIFTED Page 32

GIFTED: Dangers to Avoid
Tuesday, September 8, 2020 9:49 AM
Key Thought:
God gives supernatural gifts to His people for the building of His
Church.
--
GIFTED: Dangers to Avoid
1 Corinthians 14:34-40
I WILL NOT....
LEAVE THIS CHURCH...
OVER THIS SERMON.
A: Women were disrupting corporate worship.
1 Corinthians 14:34-35
Women should remain silent in the churches. They are not
allowed to speak, but must be in submission, as the law says. If
they want to inquire about something, they should ask their
own husbands at home; for it is disgraceful for a woman to
speak in the church.
Women - woman/wife; same word
Remain silent - like tongues and prophecy in the previous
section, something about the speech of these women was
disruptive to the order of worship.
GIFTED Page 33

disruptive to the order of worship.
Must be in submission - likely refers to their husband; this hints
that whatever the disruptive speech was, it was challenging or
erasing the role of male headship in their marriage and possibly
in the church as a whole.
Submission does not mean subservience!
The law says - "law" referring to the entire Old Testament.
Likely, Gen 3 while Adam's leadership fails and Eve is given a
consequence to "rule" over her husband
Disgraceful - in an honor/shame culture; whatever the
disruptive speech was, it was bringing shame to their families
Ask their husbands at home - home-based discipleship is an
expectation of Christian families.
PB Summary:
Women were disrupting corporate worship in a way that
involved talking and dishonoring their husbands.
CONTEXT: regain order in worship
Tongues speaking was restricted: to regain order
Prophecy speaking was restricted: to regain order
Women speaking is restricted: to regain order
GIFTED Page 34

B: The Corinthians thought they were above other Christians.
1 Corinthians 14:36
Or did the word of God originate with you? Or are you the only
people it has reached?
Word of God: the "rules" for the gifts / worship
originate with you: claim of apostolic authority
the only people: self-centered view of doctrine and the church
C: The Corinthians were assuming their own apostolic
authority.
1 Corinthians 14:37-38
If anyone thinks they are a prophet or otherwise gifted by the
Spirit, let them acknowledge that what I am writing to you is
the Lord’s command. But if anyone ignores this, they will
themselves be ignored.
anyone: the "all y'all" perspective on the audience
gifted by the Spirit: Paul wrote by the Spirit, those gifted would
recognize it as such
the Lord's command: this is NOT Paul's command but the
GIFTED Page 35

the Lord's command: this is NOT Paul's command but the
Lord's
be ignored: to operate outside of God's plan invalidates the
ministry and the minister
D: Paul warned them to avoid over-correction.
1 Corinthians 14:39-40
Therefore, my brothers and sisters, be eager to prophesy, and
do not forbid speaking in tongues. But everything should be
done in a fitting and orderly way
Therefore - bringing to a close the argument
Brothers and sisters - the "all believers" audience
Be eager/do not forbid - this is a pre-emptive warning to not
over-apply his previous instructions and squash the spiritual
gifts in the church
Fitting and orderly - this is the purpose of all three corrections:
tongues, prophecy, and women… the fitting and orderly
worship setting
The Takeaway:
GIFTED Page 36

Disruptive speech, arrogance, and false claims of authority are
all dangerous to ordered biblical worship.
GIFTED Page 37