Well, good morning and happy Easter. There we go. About half of you are awake. Let's try it again. Ready? Good morning and happy Easter. See, everybody woke up. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here. For all of you who are joining us online, happy Easter to you as well. Thank you for watching online. Thank you for being in our live chat and being an extended member of the Catalyst family. Here at Catalyst, our vision is very simple. It is to be a community. Think of it here. A community that represents Jesus by doing three things. Meet needs, build relationships, mature Christians. Those are the three things we want to be about. Meaning the needs of those who need it, building relationships and building a community, and maturing Christians, helping people to grow and deepen in their faith. It's to that third aspect of our vision that our service is tilted. We collectively worship together, we collectively pray together, and we collectively study the word of God together. Now, typically, this is where I would go right into what our new sermon series is going to be, because usually I like to begin a sermon series on Easter. But as I was planning this year's annual calendar, it makes more sense to let today stand on its own and focus on just one idea. And then next week, we'll actually begin a Jesus-focused series. So the title of my Easter message this morning is Gone, The Forgotten Promise of the Empty Tomb. The Forgotten Promise of the Empty Tomb. Here's the key thought for this sermon. Jesus' resurrection is the proof and promise that we will have a future full-body resurrection. Let me read that again, because there's a couple of key words in there. Jesus' resurrection is the proof and promise that we will have a future full-body resurrection. This morning, I want to explore, I guess, in like technical terms, what would be the theology of body. Why is it important that Jesus' body was missing when the empty tomb was discovered? Jesus is God. Couldn't he have just like come back to life and like reached into the dirt and, you know, Jerry made a brand new body and breathed himself back into it and poof, he's still Jesus and he's still alive. But that's not the way it happened. The body that the followers of Jesus expected to find in the tomb was missing. And I think sometimes as Christians, we get so scope-locked, so focused on the resurrection aspect and the God aspect and the power aspect that we sometimes miss. There was a human body in that tomb and there was a human body that walked out of it. Now, I don't have the time this morning to do the whole big Bible story, so for those of you who are new to Catalyst, we'd like to review the whole story of the Bible from beginning to end. How did we get here? But I want to paint a picture for you of where we are in history before I read the text this morning. The Bible is not one book, but 66 different books written by more than 40 human authors over a period of 1500 years in three original languages composed on three completely unique continents. And yet it tells one story from beginning to end about how much God loves an imperfect and very disobedient people. And this morning, we're going to jump in and I'm going to put a date on it. So you and I are about to jump into the DeLorean and go back in time to Sunday morning, April the 9th of AD 30. So we're sitting here in April. Today's the 5th, right? Casey, it's the 5th? Yeah, I don't pay attention to calendar. It's Sunday. That's all I remember is go to church on Sunday. Right? So today is Sunday, April the 5th, 2026. We are going back in time to Sunday, April the 9th, AD 30 at the break of day at sunrise. Now we had a sunrise service this morning at seven and we were seated outside in the parking lot. And I said to that group, I said, I just want you to take in what it feels like right now, minus the traffic from the highway that we can hear. You could hear the birds waking up. You could feel there was still a little bit of moisture in the air. There was still dew on the ground because it's literally daybreak. And at this moment in, in AD 30, women leave where they are at in, in the city of Jerusalem and they venture to the tomb where Jesus had been buried. And I need to point out none of the male disciples of Jesus are present when the empty tomb is discovered. Ladies, it is only you. And that's vitally important. We can't let that slide. And here's why. A lot of people want to say, maybe, maybe we Christians invented the resurrection story. Maybe we made it up and we wanted to be, you know, I've heard that the idea, we wanted to be like the dying and rising gods of Zoroastrianism or we wanted to make Jesus more like the demigods from the Greco-Roman pantheon. And so we invent a Jesus resurrection story so we can turn a human God in our human Jesus into a God Jesus and make him more important. The problem with that accusation is quite simple. If we were going to invent a resurrection story, ladies, this is not meant to be insulting to you, but you would not be our first witness. And here's why. In the first century, women were not considered valuable witnesses in a court of law. If you needed a witness to a crime or a witness for a property dispute, you needed a man because women could not testify as reliable witnesses. So if we were going to invent a resurrection tale and we were going to make Jesus into something like Hercules or Mithras, we don't send women to the tomb. We send like a Roman senator or we send like a general who's like so respected, like Julius Caesar. We pick a big guy, big, big, huge reputation so we can bootstrap the reputation of the famous person to the resurrection. But that is not how it happened. In fact, if you read all of the gospel accounts, they are all unanimous. Ladies, it was you who went to the tomb on daybreak of Sunday, April the 9th, AD 30. And I must say they left their house at about daybreak and it took give or take 30 minutes to walk from downtown Jerusalem to the Mount of Olives to the tomb where Jesus was laid. So 30 minutes after sunrise, which was give or take where we were those who were there this morning, it's light enough that you can see, but it's still a little cool, still a little crisp. It's into this moment and I want you to picture ladies here as a group, gentlemen, just be quiet. You'll get there, right? If you get there eventually, the ladies come back and they say, oh my gosh, he's gone. And Peter and John, they like race to the tomb. And if you read the gospel of John, John's like, take them one more stab at Peter. He's like, yeah, I got there first, bro. Ladies, you show up at the tomb 30 minutes or so after daybreak. And in my mind, I see this picture of a group of women and they brought spices with them. Now, why did they bring spices? Because they were expecting a dead Jesus. They brought spices to anoint his body and further show him love, respect and honor as was expected in their culture in their day. They were not expecting resurrection. They were expecting death. They were not expecting life. They were expecting morning. So these, these women, they go together, they travel as a group. And I could just picture this, Ms. Lisa, you and Heather, you're around the corner. And all of a sudden that door that was supposed to be sealed and closed is open. I don't know about you, but I assume the women started picking up the pace because what is the first assumption when you go to a grave that you're expecting a human body to be in and the grave is opened? I don't think the first assumption is resurrection thieves, right? They're thinking, oh my gosh, now you picked the wrong tomb. He was a carpenter. Didn't mean he was worth a lot of money. But I think at the moment the women saw the empty tomb, they started walking a little faster. They were now a little more motivated. Is the body we came to prepare still there? Had to be a question. So they speed up and they get there. And that is the moment in scripture we jump into this morning. Cool of the morning, little bit of daylight, heart racing. All of a sudden this group of women are you know something else that's never said in scripture, Ms. Claudia, how did they plan to open the tomb? Never said. The group of women have the spices, which means clearly they're planning on getting to the body of Jesus and nowhere in scripture does it explain how they were expecting to roll the stone away. They were just expecting to minister to the body of Jesus. So I want to read from you the first eight verses of Luke's account of this morning. In the earlier service we used Matthew's account. Here I want to read Luke chapter one through eight, excuse me, Luke 24 verses one through eight. Here's how it reads. On the first day of the week, very early in the morning, the women took spices they had prepared and went to the tomb. They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, but when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. While they were wondering about this, suddenly two men in clothes that gleamed like lightning stood beside them. In their fright, the women bowed down with their faces to the ground, but the men said to them, So let's just stop right there. I want to rewind. Also, I apologize, I forgot to point out those of you who have the Catalyst app. Inside the Catalyst app are all of this morning's sermon notes and the button to be able to ask questions. So I like to take questions during my sermons. If you're new to Catalyst, I like to take questions. I will answer them at the end of the service. So if you will open the Catalyst app, there's a blue button that says sermon notes on it. You can also go to catalyst302.com slash app and get it while I'm speaking. But in the app, there's the sermon notes, there's a button to email it to yourself, and there's a button to ask questions. And then if you happen to be watching online, Dr. Doug, our chat host, is going to give you a link. That way you don't have to leave the live stream to be able to ask a question. So if you're walking online, look for the live chat button. If not, the question is in the app. This is letter A in those notes if you're following along. The first thing that we see in Luke's account is it's the first day of the week. Again, I'm not going to belabor this point, but from an apologetic standpoint, if there was no resurrection, you have to explain why a group of Jews changed their worship day from Friday to Sunday. That makes no historical sense if the resurrection is not a historical event. So you'd have to explain why from the very beginning all Christians worshiped on Sundays when the majority of them were Jews and they were used to worshiping the Sabbath on Friday. If there's no resurrection, why the day changed, there's no possible explanation. Very early in the morning, we dealt with that. The women took spices. We dealt with that. They're going to minister to the body of Jesus. Then we get to verse two, they found the stone rolled away. I feel like that's where their heart started racing, their feet started picking up the pace. And then in verse three, they entered. They did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. You gotta, gotta, gotta, gotta understand. They wanted to find a dead body in that tomb. That was their intent because the spices and everything that they had prepared, all the ministry they had planned to do is contingent on the fact that the body of Jesus is still where it's supposed to be. And I kind of don't blame them in our society. When someone passes away, even today, we're very particular about the way we honor and the way we practice burial and funerary services. Well, their culture may have done it a little differently, but the desire to honor those that we've lost is a natural human trait. Then you get to verse four, while they were wondering about this, this is one of those questions that like, Lord, when we get to heaven, I gotta know. So who's the first one who asked, right? Just, just imagine ladies, there's a group of you, you all make it to the tomb, you're carrying spices to anoint the body of Jesus. You walk in and the body's gone. What's the first thing you group of ladies say? I don't know. I mean, it could be, where is he? You could start playing the blame game. Who did this? Right. Immediately jumped to an assumption. Who did this? Where is he? What happened? I think there's a lot of open-ended questions here, but they start trying to figure out a solution to the body is gone and God provides a miraculous answer. Verse four, while they were wondering, they're trying to figure out what happened to Jesus, suddenly two men in clothes that gleam like lightning stood beside them, a very illustrative way to illustrate an angelic messenger. Verse five, in fright, the women bowed down with their faces, typical human response to angelic visitation. And then Luke jumps, he skips the do not be afraid line. Matthew includes the do not be afraid line. Luke jumps right to the case. Why do you look for the living among the dead? This is the answer to their question, even though they don't know it yet. The reason there is no body in the tomb is because the body of Jesus is no longer dead. A lot of times when we think about Jesus's resurrection, we talk about it in spiritual terms. We talk about it in divine terms, but we very rarely connect. Jesus was fully God and fully human. That means Jesus had a completely human body. He had a completely human life in addition to being fully God. I said it in the first service, so I'll make sure to offend everybody equally. Okay. At some, it's going to be offensive to some people. I'm sorry. This is ADHD. This is who I am. Have you ever given thought to the fact that you had a group of disciples who are following Jesus around for three and a half years, men and women, right? There were women in that group of disciples. Do you ever realize that that means when we get to heaven, there will be a group of people who know what Jesus's farts smelled like? This is your first time at catalyst. Sorry. Jesus is fully human. And when we overemphasize his divinity, we forget he was human. He had a body. He went to the potty. He ate food. Maybe he got a tummy bug at one point. Sometimes we think about Jesus in these amazingly ethereal terms, and we forget about his body. We forget about his humanity. If he had no human body, his suffering on the cross doesn't matter. If he's only divine, into the first century, into the second century, there began to be this heresy that Jesus was never really human. He was God, and he appeared to be human. The best idea I can give you is from Star Wars, the Obi-Wan hologram ghost thing. It's like Jedi Jesus. He wasn't really human. He was so godly, we couldn't tell the difference. If you robbed Jesus of his humanity, then that means there was no human sacrifice for sin. That means the original sin from Eden is never fixed, and we create a whole lot of theological problems. We've got to hold on to the fact that when these women go to the tomb, they are expecting to find the human body of the very human Jesus, now deceased, died from torture and execution. And the answer that the angel gives to why there is no body, whether the question is, who did this? Whether the question is, what happened? Whether the question is, whatever the question was, the angel's answer is very clearly, why do you look for the living among the dead? And then verse six, he gives the full explanation. Why do you look for the living among the dead? Ladies, now that I have your attention, he says, he is not here. Let me take the first half of the sentence, then the second half. He is not here. Why does the angel say Jesus is not here? Because Jesus's body is not there. Don't over-spiritualize it. Don't over-divinate it. Jesus is not there because his body's not there. And if you were unsure about whether that's what the angel is saying, look at the second half of the first sentence in verse six. He's not here. He has risen. The word risen in this verse literally means to stand up, to arise, to get up, or to go from horizontal to vertical. That is quite literally what that word means. It means to go from a horizontal state to a vertical state. I'm fairly certain if you're here and you're still awake that you did that at some point today. You went from a horizontal state to a vertical state. However, this word means something else, something much deeper and much more theological. The current New Testament scholar, N.T. Wright, who used to be bishop in the Anglican Church in England, he has a massive tome-level book and he spends like 500 pages just unpacking what this word means. So I'm going to save you the read. You don't have to read the 500 pages. Here's what it is. This word risen is the same word that Paul uses in 1 Corinthians 15 to describe the resurrected Jesus. It's Anastasis and Nagiru are these two different words. And when used in combination, they mean only one thing. That which went into the tomb, human body, that which went in is the same substance as that which came out. That which went into the tomb, the human body of Jesus, is the same substance as that which came out of the tomb. So the reason for he is not here is because Jesus literally sat up, stood up and walked out. It is not Jesus like called enterprise and like Star Trek beamed out. This is also why the tomb is open. The tomb opened so the human savior walked right out the front door. It's not just, oh, as he's God and he ascended. No, we get that later in Acts chapter two, but this is before that moment. He's not here. He is risen. And then the angel reminds them like they were supposed to know in the rest of verse six. Remember how he told you while he was still with you in Galilee seven, the son of man must be delivered over to the hands of sinners, be crucified and on the third day raised again. And then they remembered his word. I don't know about you, but anytime the scriptures add moments where the human characters seem to not get it right or seem to make a mistake, I feel really good about myself because I feel like I do that all the time. So the first question I want to ask you is I bring this first point in for a landing. How do you handle confusion when Jesus doesn't match the expectations you had for what you thought life was going to be like? Remember that group of women knew what they were doing that morning. They prepared for it. They spent time. They spent money. They bought the spices. They got everything together the night before. They're packing it all out. They're double checking their to do lists. They prepared for the moment to minister to the dead body of Jesus. Their expectation was set. And then they make it there. And now you got two choices. You can dig in and commit to the fact that my expectations are the way God needs to do it. You could defend your position. You could rewrite and say, well, that's not really what I expected. I was just going along with it. Or you could look for what you got wrong. Which do you do when Jesus doesn't show up the way you expect him to show up or when life doesn't go your way. And all of a sudden I prepared for a moment, Casey, that's never coming. I prepared for ministry. That's never happening. I was ready for an event. That's just never going to be because Jesus isn't where I wanted him to be. When I wanted him to be there. That's this moment. What you and I look at is the most surprising, miraculous moment in all of human history these women look at with disappointment because they don't get to do what they prepared to do. They don't get to do what they were ready to do. Now I need you to put a pin in that moment. Hold it there in your mind because now I need to go back to the very beginning of the Bible and paint a big picture that's going to frame this confusing moment that the women had. I need you to understand that human body was always the point. Jesus having a human body was always the point. This is letter B if you're following me in the notes. Here's the first thing I need you to understand. God deliberately chose to create human beings with bodies. How do I know this? Look at Genesis chapter 1 verse 26. Then God said, let us make mankind in our image. Now I am not saying, let me be very clear about this. I am not saying that the image in Genesis 1 26 is the fact that we have human bodies. What I am saying is the creation of humanity of every one of us. The creation of humanity is an intentional willful choice by God. Can we agree? God chose to create humans. Therefore it was an intentional willful choice on his side and he chose to create humans the way he did. None of us were there. He didn't stop to ask you how you think human beings should be made. He was there and he made a decision. Now what is the image of God? It's not our physical bodies and a lot of times we talk about the hands of God. Anybody ever heard the phrase, oh the hand of God was all over that. God doesn't actually have hands the way we have hands. That's called anthropomorphism. We're using our physical bodies in order to better understand the way God works. What is the image of God in humanity? The capacity for spiritual relationship. But it's interesting that the way God chose to create humans is to make them a two-part creature. So this is Genesis chapter 2 verse 7. Then the Lord God formed a man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and man became a living being. If any of you have ever been to a funeral that I have preached, I always bring up this verse because it's so important for us to understand what are we as human beings. We are and I submit to you every human being who has ever lived is a two-part creature. We are one part physical which comes from the dust of the ground in which God created the first proto-human and we are one part spiritual. The breath of God or the ruach in Hebrew that God breathed into the dust of the ground which then turned Adam from a clay creature into a living creature. So Genesis chapter 2 verse 7 gives me the theological ground to submit to you that all human beings are two-part creatures. We are one part physical, one part spiritual and when those two things stem together we are something completely different. And you're going to say, pastor how is that possible? In the same way that if I take two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom and I put them together what I have is no longer a gas. What is it? Water, right? Two separate elements when combined creating something new that didn't exist until they were combined. Physical, spiritual, put together human. That is how all of us are made and it is by the willful and intentional choice of God. But now let's follow through. So God chooses to make humans in a body. All right God I'm with you. I see your example. So then what's wrong? Romans chapter 7 verses 18 through 20. Paul points this out. For I know the good itself does not dwell in me. That is my simple nature. For I have the desire to do what is good but I cannot carry it out. 19. For I do not do the good I want to do but the evil I want to do. This I keep on doing. 20. Now if I do what I do not want to do it is no longer I could do it but sin living in me that does it. Paul is making an argument here in Romans that's built on the way God created us in Genesis and what he's saying is the corruption from the fall of Eden and I realize if you are new to Christianity I'm trying to weave an entire Bible into one sermon. That's why I do Q&A at the end. So if you hit lost do not hesitate to ask me a question. But there's no way I can try to explain what happened on Easter without explaining how people are made and connecting the dots. So God creates humans as a two-part being when sin or what we call disobedience. So sin is not a bad word. It's not an evil word. It is literally when human beings choose their desires over God's design. That's my simple definition for sin. Choosing desire over design. Our desires trump his design. That's the original choice from Eden. God put two trees in the middle of the garden. Said you could freely eat from that one. Yeah by the way don't eat from that one. Thankfully everybody didn't do it on purpose. If Jim had been there maybe it would have gone better right? Probably not but maybe. When human beings choose their desires over God's design corruption enters our world. That's what's wrong with the world. We were made very good end of Genesis. Bad things happen. We choose desire over design. Now corruption lives in this world. Corrupt corruption has corrupted the entire planet not just us. I want to be careful because there is a heresy from the second century that said sin only lives in our physical bodies and my soul is this like perfect thing. That's kind of like it's dualism. It's narcissism. I'm not trying to say that the corruption in the world we live in is only physical. I'm saying it affected the physical. In the same way that if a plant were to get a disease then all of the fruit from that plant would also be diseased. You see what I'm saying? So the corruption that happened in Eden is passed down to every single one of us. If a human being is a body and a soul now and in eternity and this is where we forget. A lot of times yeah let's just put them together it's gonna be easy. So this is letter C in your notes. We have inherited a lie from the second century that I don't think we even realize we inherited and so this is the way it goes. 350 years before Jesus ever lived there was a dude named Plato right. Most people have probably heard of Plato. Plato had this idea called dualism and Rob here's the basic explanation of dualism. Spiritual good physical bad. That's platonic dualism. Things that are spiritual are automatically good and can't be bad and things that are physical are automatically bad and can't be good and 350 years before Jesus Plato was teaching this stuff in ancient Greece. The problem is that idea still existed when Christianity comes upon the scene and then in the second century people start trying to mix a little bit of Plato with a little bit of Jesus and this is what we call second century Gnosticism. We bought into this idea that the human soul what Genesis tells us how human beings are made physical and spiritual. The human soul is automatically good but the human body is automatically evil and what the human soul needs is to be freed from this mortal coil and go walk around in some like ethereal like where we're all fat babies playing harps on clouds and we don't have physical bodies and that's what heaven is going to be like and this thinking this platonic dualism and second century Gnosticism have so infected the way people think about Jesus and how do I know that because we always talk about resurrection from a spiritual perspective not a physical one. God intended for human beings and I'm going to try to John them and try to put all these bows together and make one big knot ready? God creates human beings the way he chooses to. The way he chooses to is two part being one part physical one part spiritual. Corruption enters the equation and so now God's got to deal with the consequences of sin. Fast forward to the New Testament he brings Jesus. Jesus is God incarnate meaning he's fully God fully man that means Jesus has a human body. When Jesus dies on the cross he makes the payment for the corruption of our world and now salvation is possible but how many people ever ever stop to think about the fact that salvation includes a body? See in America most of the time even and I will admit I have been in college for 10 years and no one is ever connected talking about salvation to talking about physical bodies. Like all the way through to the doctoral level when we talk about the gospel we don't talk about the body that Jesus had or guess this the body you and I will have in eternity and this is why there's no way for me to preach this message without trying to get from Genesis all the way to Revelation and then bring it together for you. We inherited Plato's wrong thinking and how many people let me let me say it this way how many people have ever heard statements like this when when someone passes away someone that we love we make statements like oh well they're in a better place right as if the place we go as soon as this life is over is the end of the story oh they're in a better place or they're free at last or this world is not my home or I get to go to heaven right now that sounds a whole lot like our culture. Here's the problem with that we have bought into the idea that who we are as spiritual creatures doesn't involve physicality and we just go to heaven right and fat babies with guitars on a cloud personally I need mine to have an amp be much better but that's not God's plan see God's plan Jesus walked out of the tomb in physical form why Paul describes Jesus as the first born of the new creation he's the first human to get a resurrected body not just resurrected spiritually not just Obi-Wan style hologram in eternity forever in like your beach ready body but you can't actually touch anything Jesus is the first human being to resurrect into an eternity with a body that cannot die that's why the tomb is open that's why he walked out that's why he fixes the corruption problem like the resurrection of Jesus is the single greatest thread that ties the entire story of scripture together but when we only talk about salvation in spiritual terms and your soul going to heaven we miss the reality that God's eternity for every one of us includes a soul in a body because human beings are both now someone's going to sit here and ask me well wait a minute when do we get these new totally beach ready bodies that's my interpretation by the way the body doesn't say I'm just saying makes everybody feel better when you add that adjective to it so here's the big story of the bible if I zoom out to 30 000 feet and I look down every one of us is born into a mortal human body we live in this life in this mortal human body the same way Jesus did we are then going to die hopefully not the way Jesus did for a short amount of time we're in this thing called theologians will call it the intermediate right we're in a disembodied state where our soul is not in a physical body but the end of the bible story is about resurrection Jesus's resurrection in the gospels is the first one and at the end of revelation which we studied like two years ago everybody is resurrected and at that point in eternity future everybody gets a new body why because that's what human beings are human beings that are at our our core nature our body and soul if all we do is talk about eternity as a soul going to heaven we miss why Jesus walked out of the grave in the first place he did not just resurrect to buy us a spiritual future eternity involves a physical body and that's why Jesus's resurrection involves a physical body bodily resurrection gives new life in a new body that is free from the corruption of this world that's why the stone was rolled away that's why there's no body in the tomb if all we do is celebrate Jesus's resurrection as defeating sin as defeating spiritual corruption and not also giving us access to a body that is free from the corruption that this world lives in we are not delivering the full picture of why Jesus rose from the dead he did do those things he did purchase forgiveness for sin totally true check he did purchase inclusion into the family of god check his body does give us a new covenant we talked about that on the thursday night community service check but Jesus walked out of that tomb with a full resurrected body that is no longer mortal so theologians will call it the glorified body they'll call it a resurrected body here's the base thing i need to understand after our soul is separated from the physical body we live in right now you go through like a weekend period of time in an intermediate state and then you get a new physical body the same way Jesus did that's why the tomb is empty and here now let's bring this in for landing this is letter D in your notes Luke chapter 24 36 to 43 this is Jesus now appearing to his disciples in physical form post resurrection here he is while they were still talking about this Jesus himself stood among them and said peace be with you they were startled and frightened thinking they saw a ghost he said to them why are you troubled why do doubts rise in your minds i love that question look at my hands and my feet it is i myself touch me and see a ghost does not have flesh and bones as you see i have when he said this he showed them his hands and his feet 41 and while they still did not believe i did not believe it because of joy and amazement he asked do you have anything here to eat they gave him a piece of broiled fish and he took it and ate in their presence just look at this verse 36 the women come back from the empty tomb in dawn of april the 9th 80 30 they find the disciples they tell him he's risen he's gone he's he's going to meet us in galilee after peter and john have their fun little foot race and pete gets out run and they all go back to galilee and they're waiting for Jesus to show up Jesus shows up in the middle of a locked room now people want to ask me does that mean in eternity we're all going to be able to teleport maybe that's my official theological answer maybe one problem that we have is Jesus is the only resurrected human in scripture that we get the examples of and Jesus is also fully God right so i just think we all need to have a little bit of theological humility and maybe the resurrected Jesus being fully God and fully man might be able to do some things in his resurrected body that you and i aren't able to do but do i rob do i think it would be super cool if all of us can teleport yes be way cool can i promise it to you with a theological stamp on it no i can't sorry about that you'll have to dream about being an x-men some other kind of way while they're still talking Jesus shows up verse 37 so key they were startled they were frightened thinking they saw a ghost why do they think they saw a ghost because they're looking for a dead man with no body not a body of a living person what's a ghost an image or an apparition something that looks like it's alive but it's not physical they hadn't connected the body with the resurrection and i would offer that we today do a lot of that then he said to them why are you troubled why do doubts rise in your mind i said the same thing to us why do doubts rise in our mind when i stand here and tell you that Jesus's resurrection is the promise that you and i will have physical bodies in eternity because we haven't seen it yet we're much more apt to think about a ghost-like resurrection right holographic babies with harps on clouds that makes us comfortable the idea that we have an actual physical body in eternity well what's that like very hard for us to think about a body that is not beholden to time in these in this human state i totally get it so then 39 jesus responds look at my hands my feet it is i myself touch me and see i love that jesus offers evidence the apologist in me can't let that verse go there's plenty of evidence to believe in jesus if you've not seen it ask me on your connect card later ask a question there is perfectly solid reasonable historical scientific logical evidence to believe in jesus and here he says touch me why because a ghost does not have flesh and bones jesus says i'm not a ghost i am a resurrected human touch me and see and then verse 40 he shows him his hands shows him his feet 41 they still don't believe steve makes me feel so much better jesus can show me multiple times what i'm supposed to do and i still get lost but what he does next i think is the most interesting part of this story they have physically touched the hands and feet of the savior post resurrection and the disciples still don't get it so what's jesus's final evidence hey man y'all got something to eat he's like fine you want to touch my hands you want to just give me some food i will do the one thing that is uniquely physical ghosts don't eat stuff unless you're slimer from the 80s okay he gets a pass because i'm a huge ghost buster span but other than that jesus very clearly says do you have anything to eat how much energy does it take to resurrect i don't know but did jesus need fourth meal like did jesus make a taco bell run on the way from jerusalem all the way to gallilee or did he make it all the way there he's like y'all i'm hungry what y'all got to eat again when we over spiritualize jesus and we forget that he's a physical human in a physical body who also has a god nature he's not just god he's god walking and talking in human form and guess what humans do we eat guess what humans do we sleep guess what humans do we fart okay but why does that all of a sudden make us uncomfortable because we are so used to thinking about jesus in purely spiritual forms that we forget that he was human but if you if you let go of the humanity of jesus you might just forget that you and i will have eternal physical bodies in the resurrection the same way that jesus walked out of the tomb in the first eternal physical body that's why i titled this message the forgotten promise of the empty tomb the tomb was empty because the physical resurrected jesus walked out in the same way that in eternity future every one of us will have a physical resurrected body so let me give you the takeaway as i bring this in for a landing and mel you can start queuing up do i have any questions all right you start queuing them up send them to me we can do questions for like i don't know like 10 minutes here's the takeaway christians must live differently because the body is not a temporary container for the soul for the soul it is part of god's eternal plan for redemption resurrection and eternity it is god's plan to make human beings in a body it is god's plan for him to die on a cross and purchase salvation from the corruption of this world and it is god's plan for every one of us to spend eternity in a physical body