And that's what we're going to be talking about this morning is a portrait of a disciple maker in the new testament Now, let me give you the key thought that sort of wraps all of these messages together. Here it is christian maturity Is a shared cycle As we grow we help others to do the same My mentor pastor rick would say christianity is always one generation away from extinction As soon as one generation no longer considers it valuable to raise up the next generation christianity is dead That's what we do one generation raises up the next generation and we've been doing it that way Since ad 30 when jesus rose And here we are today The group of us that are here plus the dozen or a dozen of you that are online This is where we're at after two thousand and something years or almost two thousand years We've been handing it down Generationally as those who are mature in the faith who I call a disciple maker, right? You're not just some people think that once I get to a certain state of spiritual maturity then poof i'm done There's no more spiritual growth to be had. That's not the christian model The christian model is as soon as you've learned something you're responsible to pass that thing on You don't have to reach the super christian state where you're like Now all of a sudden I can make disciples. That's not how that works Real life happens and you learn something and then you pass that lesson on and then somebody else learned something that you didn't learn And then they pass that lesson on Today I want to tell you the story of a disciple maker And the person that he mentored in the new testament And I will admit to you that my wife was a little miffed at me when I picked this particular character Because I probably could have picked an easier example I probably could have went with you know, um apollos And priscilla and aquila and it was so super obvious that he needed to learn something new or I could have gone with paul Raising timothy But today I want to tell you the story of a little known man named john mark There's only a dozen or so references in the entire bible to who john mark is But I think he's a very valuable person to know about and I think his story has a lot to show us About the relationship of a disciple maker to the person that he's mentoring So if you're following in your notes, uh in the app, this is going to be letter a I'm going to tell you a little bit about john mark and then i'm going to try to bridge what you've learned about john mark We're talking about disciple making so letter a the first thing I want you to know is mark is the quote-unquote spiritual son Of the apostle peter. So mark is the spiritual son of peter I can prove this in first peter chapter 5 verse 13 and we're going to be using a lot of scripture today So if you're not going to like, you know, either click through or thumb through that's why I put it all in the sermon notes You can email it to yourself when we're done first peter chapter 5 verse 13. This is the close of peter's letter And here he says She who is in babalon? chosen together with you sends her greetings And so does my son mark Now those of you remember when we studied was it first or second john? And they use the imagery of a woman She sends her greetings and we realized that it wasn't just a singular woman But it was representative of a church because keep in mind at the time that peter is writing this letter The the first century christian church is under persecution Peter was executed by the roman caesar nero Does he know anything about nero? He was not the friendliest of dude Okay, there was a lot wrong with nero so when peter says um she Who is in babalon? He's not talking about a singular woman and he's actually not talking about Historical babalon he's using babalon to all of his jewish audience. They would have understood A power a pagan power who exists outside? Who's oppressing the people that's what babalon is so in the first century? What's the name of the pagan nation that is now occupied and oppressing the jewish people? rome So when he says she meaning a church because he doesn't want his letters getting traced back So if they find out who wrote the letters and they'll execute those people for being christian So when he says she he means a church who is in babalon a church possibly even in The capital city of rome. Well, there was a church there There's another guy in the bible who wrote a letter to the christians who live in the capital city of rome What's the name of the capital city of rome? rome That wasn't it wasn't it wasn't a trick question. What's the name of the capital city of rome? There it goes What was what color was george washington's white horse? There we go everybody's awake today who wrote the letter to the romans the apostle paul So we know there was a church even in the roman capital city even while our faith was illegal And here peter makes reference to it. She meaning the church who is in babalon possibly within the city limits of rome Together with you sends her greetings meaning this church is sending greetings to another church. We saw that in second. John And then he says this and so does my son mark Now we have two choices with the word son here either peter is referring to his actual biological son Or he is referring to a young man that he loves like a son We do know that there's biblical evidence that peter was married because peter has a mother-in-law In fact peter's mother-in-law is mentioned in the scripture so peter did have a wife It doesn't state the number of children or how many children peter had so most scholars think this reference to son Is not a biological reference There is a biological reference to john mark later and i'll i'll bring that out But this is more than likely a spiritual son reference someone that peter took under his wing invested his life in Loved dearly cared for dearly And here he's obviously with peter and he's sending greetings in peter's letter So before we ever left first peter 513 what I want you to see is at some point Prior to peter writing this letter peter had invested his life in john mark. Does that make sense? For him to call him my spiritual son there had to be relationship. There had to be time There had to be depth for him to use a loving familial term like my son Here's the next thing I want you to know about john mark. This is letter b John mark had a failure to faithful story In his testimony if we could open the back doors of the church and ask john mark to walk up here and tell you his story He's gonna have a moment where he fails And then he's rebuilt to faithful. I'm not gonna read you the entire story I'm just gonna highlight the verses so I can put the story together for you in acts chapter 12 verse 25 We see when barnabas and saul had finished their mission They returned from jerusalem taking with them john who was also called mark John mark traveled with the apostle paul and barnabas on the first missionary journey around the mediterranean So not only is john mark the spiritual son of the apostle peter Homey went on the road with the apostle paul If there was somebody in the first century church who really saw the beginning of the birth of christianity. It was john mark Discipled by peter traveled with paul like that's a pretty good deal Unfortunately Things didn't go really well on that first missionary journey if we fast forward to acts chapter 15 and look at verses 37 and 38 says this They're getting ready for their second missionary journey paul and barnabas are having a conversation Barnabas wanted to take john who is also called mark with them But paul did not think it was wise to take him because he had deserted them in pamphylia And had not continued with them in the work So here's john mark Somehow invested or trained by peter traveling with paul and with barnabas and part way through the first missionary journey John mark sort of deuces out. He's like, yeah, I can't do that Now there's a lot of debate about Why the bible says pamphylia so we could look at pamphylia you could look at the geography you the time There are debates that talk about why did john mark abandon them at this point? Well, that's an outside of the bible debate john We could look it up We could have a fun debate with history and geography and all that kind of stuff The bible doesn't state exactly why but it does state right there in acts chapter 15 verse 38 Paul did not want to take john mark with him because john mark had abandoned them on the first missionary journey But that's still not the end of the story There's another reference to john mark in paul's second letter to timothy. I just want to read you second timothy chapter four Verses 9 to 11 and then i'm going to try to bring all of this together and tie it up Second timothy chapter 4 verses 9 to 11. This is paul writing the closing to his second letter to his Mente or his son in the faith timothy And he says hey tim that's my interjection there. It's the new international bill translation parenthesis yo tim Do your best to come to me quickly? For dmas because he loved the world has deserted me and has gone to thesilonica Thesilonica Prentice has gone to galatia and titus to dalmatia. Let's just roll off the tongue Only luke is with me get mark And bring him with you Because he is helpful to me in my ministry See, it's not fair for me to tell you all about the split between paul and barnabas And barnabas wanted to take john mark and give him that second chance and paul was like, nah, I don't think so I'm gonna take silas and then basically barnabas and john mark go this way they do ministry and paul and silas go this way And they do ministry and you'd think oh if I didn't tell you the rest of the story Well, then maybe paul just hated john mark for the rest of his life And then we get this beautiful little reference here at the end of timothy. He says hey Everybody else has deserted me. You know who I want go get mark He's good so somehow some way Between the events of axe chapter 15 when paul and barnabas disagreed about john mark so much That they had to go separate ways sometime between that moment and the moment where he's riding the end of timothy John mark got back on the horse And must have served with paul at some point for paul to say go get me john He's good He's he'll help me Everybody else is gone. Only luke is with me Notice that's paul saying only luke is with me Everybody else had duced out. You know who I can count on How many just just think about this? If you were out doing something if you were at a job And somebody that you asked to come with you to help you You just left And abandoned you while you're doing your work Is that the person you would call the next time somebody else abandoned you? No So in order for you to call that person Something happened between time a and time b, right something relationally happened So now i'm going to jump off the pages of scripture and i'm going to editorialize for a second Here is I feel like this is going to be the end of the the clue movie here's how it could have happened Right, so here you go I know That peter Is the spiritual father of john mark? I know as a fact that john mark abandoned paul and barnum And I know as a fact That somehow the relationship between john mark and paul was repaired to the point that paul when everybody else had left him Said go get john mark. I know all three of those things are facts So now i'm going to weave a little narrative through these facts that could be true I'm admitting to you. This is pastor bill's adhd creative version of one way the first century could have gone down Who better just think about it who better To pour into john mark after a failure like abandoning the apostle paul Than the disciple Who turned his back on jesus himself You go back to the gospel And we look at which of the disciples Is the one Who denied jesus three times? Who is it? No, no, it wasn't which disciple denied jesus three times. It wasn't judas judas betrayed jesus, but who but peter did peter denies jesus Three times right after the scene at the garden against 70 he's like surely not lord. Let me cut this dude's ear off That's how much I love you, right? That's a really weird pride I love this we should make that for valentine's day. Honey. I love you so much little van Gogh Who better To pour into john mark at this moment when he had abandoned the apostle paul than the actual apostle Who had abandoned jesus before his death? And then the famous scene afterward where jesus restores peter and says upon this rocker will build my church If it's true now what I know is true is peter had a loving spiritual relationship with john mark. I know that I know that he that he did that john mark Denied paul and I know at some point that relationship was restored What I want to believe is true Is that god had set up the right man to be at the right place at the right time So when john mark hit that low period and was like man I abandoned paul And barnum they needed me and I abandoned what am I supposed to do? Hugh peter Who to me is the most redneck of all the disciples like he he he jesus. He's like, hey man. Let me tell you a story Let me tell you about this time. I denied he's He would be the perfect guy To minister to john mark in that moment because he had denied the savior and was still called back Another thing I want you to know about john mark letter c in your notes John mark's family is very central to the early Jerusalem church. I know this Because I can show you an axe chapter 12. Well, let's look at this Axe chapter 12. I'm going to start reading in verse five Oh, excuse me, you're right eric. No, you're right. I skipped a verse and I apologize First I want to go to colossians chapter 4 verse 10. I told you I could tell you about john mark's family. Here it is Colossians chapter 4 verse 10 My fellow prisoner aristarchus Sends you his greeting as does mark the cousin of barnabas You have received instructions about him if he comes to you welcome him Now we understand Why was barnabas? So set on giving john mark a second chance after that abandonment on the first missionary journey. It was his cousin I don't know about you, but like I don't like all of my cousins And I guarantee you they all don't like me like you put all and i'm nobody raise your hands This next comment is just strictly rhetorical. Okay If your next year's spouse you may elbow them that is acceptable In any group of cousins, I have a theory in any group of cousins There is always the influential one and then there always is the one that everybody goes When they walk in the door I'm the oh One in my family. I'm the I'm the extra cousin in the cousin group for sure That could have been john mark and yet barnabas is not willing to just write off john mark He's family. Let's do this again Now that's not the only time that john mark's family shows up in the first century church. Now, let's go axe chapter 12 I'm going to read verses 5 through 12, but i'm going to quickly tell you the story So peter was kept in prison, but the church was earnestly praying to god for him The night before Herod was to bring him to trial Peter was sleeping between two soldiers bound with two chains And centuries stood guard at the entrance Suddenly an angel of the lord appeared and a light shone in the cell He struck peter On the side and woke him up quick get up. He said And the chain fell off peter's wrists Then the angel said to him Put on your clothes and sandals and peter did so Wrap up your cloak around you and follow me the angel told him verse 9 Peter followed him out of the prison, but he had no idea what the angel doing was really happening He thought he was seeing a vision They passed the first and second guards and came to the iron gate leading to the city It opened for them by itself and they went through it When they had walked the length of one street The angel left Then peter came to himself and said Now I know without a doubt the lord has sent his angel to rescue me from herod's clutches And from everything the jewish people were hoping would happen When this had dawned on him He went to the house of mary the mother of john Who is also called mark? Where many people had gathered and were praying? Let's rewind A few things I need to understand At the time of axe chapter 12 Christianity is still considered a part of judaism Very very early in the faith people just thought we were another group of jews who disagreed about some little minor stuff Eventually as christianity began to grow they realized that christianity is its own religion outside of judaism And that's when we got stepped on really bad by the roman but at this point The jewish leading people they know that christians are a problem for them because Christians think that there's only one king and his name is jesus the jews are willing to tolerate the king of rome Because they're still waiting for their promised messiah so herod Who is in charge of this area of rome at the time says you know what i'm gonna do? Sharita i'm gonna buy myself a lot of good credit With the jewish leaders and i'm gonna scoop up and execute a couple of these people that are just ruffling their feathers So that's why peter is in prison here in axe chapter 12 Herod goes and scoops up peter and plans to put him through basically a kangaroo court trial and then execute him All to win a little bit of favor with the jewish leaders in jerusalem So peter's in prison It's verse six tells you it's the night before the trial this is literally the last night of peter's life According to hered hered will execute him the next day the trial is a sham. They're gonna execute him Which is why people are praying for him Verse seven the angel shows up. I just two really funny things first They were so committed to executing peter That they had shackles on both of his wrists Basically, he was handcuffed to two different roman soldiers and there's two more soldiers outside his prison cell I don't know about you, but I feel like there's a little bit of overkill for somebody who's just a fisherman and preaches But that's the situation He is shackled with both wrists the two separate roman soldiers and there's two ro two more roman soldiers Just outside the prison cell so even if peter were to somehow Like overpower the two guards who he's shackled to Inside the cell he still would have to make it past to outside the cell my favorite part of verse seven The eric can you put that verse seven back up again? Suddenly an angel appeared and a light showed in the cell. Okay, that's pretty normal And then he struck peter on the side. He literally wake up Oh I love that Do you know why that's so interesting to me? Who wrote the book of acts anybody remember? Luke I heard it Who would have known the detail of where peter got kicked by the Only peter There are no other christians in the cell at this moment The only reason we know that the angel kicked him in the side Is if luke got that detail direct from peter But I just love it the angel shows up peter is Completely knocked out and the angel just walks up to him and starts kicking him. Hey pete get up I just love that that that to me is one of those very human moments in the bible It's a simple little detail that you might just overlook So then peter doesn't realize what's happening is in real life because in his worldview god does speak in dreams and vision That's normative They had it in in old testament judaism they had speaking in tongues and miraculous signs in chapter 2 chapter 4 chapter 6 So this is normal for him. He doesn't realize that he's actually being set free until he's physically outside the prison So put yourself in peter's shoes for a minute It's the night before you're going to get executed You are saved from the prison miraculously by an angel you are now walking down the streets of jerusalem In the dead of night, let's call it like three four a.m Where's the first place you go Like where would you go? If it was me I would go to the very first house where I had friends I would go to the very first house to where christians were Who I knew would pray for me and would protect me That makes sense. I think it's pretty logical verse 12 When this dawned on him He went to the house of mary the mother of john who is also called mark Where many people had gathered and were praying. Well, why were they praying for peter because he's going to get executed in the morning And there's nothing they can do about it So at this point the one thing they can do is they can pray and they can pray that his faith holds true That's what they're praying for in fact, if you read the rest of the story I don't have time to go to all of it They didn't really believe that it was him when they knocked on the door because how is he going to get out? He shackled the two roman guards. There's two more at the gate like When the servant girl shows up at the door to find peter. They're like girl. You've lost it. We know That he's in jail and they have to go get him But look at how the owner of the house is identified in verse 12 the house of mary the mother of john who is also called mark So this tells me john mark's mama's house Is in jerusalem It also tells me That john mark's mama's house was used as a place for gathering and prayer by the early church Because what are they doing when peter makes it to the house? The christians there are gathered and they are praying for him So john mark is a young man whose mama has a very wealthy house, right? The house had a gate outside mama had servants So there's a little bit that we can understand about this house She was wealthy enough to have servants. She was wealthy enough to have a gate outside the house the servant girl is the one who answers the door And it was also large enough for a group of christians to gather and safely pray together Because remember if we got caught we get killed That's the first century Why do I tell you all of this about john mark? Number one because I think he's just a really cool cat and it's my sermon so I get to pick who I want to preach about But here's the other reason I want you to know about john mark John mark has left us something very Valuable the young man that i've been talking about all morning Some of you know because i've watched you and your little smirks that i've been talking About the young man who is known as john mark who I told you all these things about Is the author of the gospel of mark? And if that was all it was that would be fantastic, but I can tell you something else about the gospel of mark most scholars believe that the gospel of mark Is the written record of the apostle peter's preaching finish So now let's put all these pieces together Now let's put all these pieces together Peter has a spiritual son named john mark John mark is the cousin of barnabas John mark traveled with paul had that failure back to faithful moment John mark's family is central in the early jerusalem church His mother was wealthy enough to have a home that could house the church and pray for them And when the apostle peter is released from prison in the dead of night john mark's house Is the first place he goes All of that leads me to the conclusion That peter Invested greatly in john mark And john mark was well known to the first century jury If not by the time luke is writing acts and he's telling them about the house that that peter went to when he got released from prison If john mark was not a well-known figure he wouldn't have designed the house and described it as the mother of john mark By the time that luke writes acts chapter 12 john mark is a known figure in the jerusalem church And the reason that I think he's a known figure Is because he is the venti or the he's the you know the padawan learner Of the apostle peter now Those you have your notes. I don't think I put this one in the in the slides from the screens But just to give you a little historical validity of why I believe that john mark wrote the gospel of mark here is a quote From the church father papius who lived at the end of the first century and did he he was born mid first century And his ministry is towards the end of the first century the beginning of second century. This is what papius writes about the gospel of mark Mark having become the interpreter of peter Here wrote down accurately whatsoever he remembered Uh, then I was i'm sorry the word thing should be in that quote He took a special care not to admit anything he heard and not to put anything fictitious into the statements Now that statement about the authorship of what you and I know as the gospel of mark is written in 80 Let's call it 95 to like 110 in that 15 year gap not exactly sure when papius wrote We only have some fragments of his documentation But this is first century witness that the person who wrote the gospel of mark wrote it down and got it from peter It's peter's preaching ministry about jesus. You know, I think it's great about that The denial of jesus is in the gospel of mark You know what that means? How did john mark learn about peter's denial of jesus christ? from peter's own lips Peter didn't just encourage him with lessons from jesus peter also taught him lessons from his own life Hey, man, I did this thing did not go well But jesus did this thing and it went really well So just to give you a little history here I tried to work out for myself When did peter and john mark spend time together? Because there are scattered details throughout the new testament about john mark So if you have this the notes in the sermon all these dates are there, but let me just quickly review them for you Jesus raises from the dead in ad 30 Paul becomes a christian in ad 32 and he tells us in galatians that he goes away to arabia for three years So paul comes back in about ad 35 The scene of peter being freed from prison Happens in ad 44 and paul's first missionary journey that john mark goes on is Probably ad 46 to 48 It has to be over by ad 49 because that's when they all come back for the jerusalem council Which is in the middle of the book of acts. Okay, I realize i'm spitting these really fast. I'm gonna go back Peter's second missionary journey takes place after the jerusalem council. So that's 49 to 52 Peter writes first peter where he calls john mark his spiritual son in ad 60 to 62 And paul writes timothy or second timothy where he says get me john mark. He's good for my ministry in 64 to 67 Why do I say all of that? Because i'm a geek and here's why In order for john mark to be referred to as peter's son Peter and john mark had to spend enough time together for that mentor mentee relationship to blossom to be able to have legs so to speak I submit to you that peter Invested his life in john mark Anytime between ad 30 when jesus rises In ad 46 and why do I say that? Because john mark is not with peter. He's with paul during the second missionary journey And he's with barnumus during the second missionary journey And that's going to lead me right to when peter writes first peter and when paul writes second timothy, which means Peter's investment in john mark has to predate all of those other times where john mark and peter were not together When he's traveling with paul and luke when he's traveling with barnumus He's not with peter and yet john mark is the author of the gospel of mark and knows peter well enough to write down his entire Preaching ministry and you and I still have it today is the gospel of mark That means john mark has to spend a good amount of time with peter to be able to learn all of that to Consume all of that knowledge and also build that relationship I don't think there's enough time Once you start looking at the number of years from that scene where peter is freed from herod in 80 44 46 to 48 there's a missionary journey 49. There's judicial council 49 to 52 is the second missionary journey Maybe if you want the eight years between 52 to 60 where peter writes first peter. Okay I'll admit if you want to argue that when you can have it But by 64 the relationship with peter is already restored because peter's like you'll get me john mark. He's good The biggest gap of time that's available For peter to invest his life in john mark is from 80 30 to 80 46 That's only 16 years That's what I did all this back I sat my computer and I was like But how long did they actually have spent time together realistically? Now that doesn't mean that every time john mark came home right because his mom lives where? Jerusalem they travel around and they come back to Jerusalem Doesn't mean every time he comes home maybe he doesn't get to see peter but peter dies in like 80 64 to 67 Peter and paul are executed by the emperor nero So it can't be the last two years because he was already traveling with paul. He's already traveling with one of us Why is that important? Yeah, because this is my sermon and i can't mark but the real reason that it's important Even if let's just take the back. Jim. Let's take the maximum available time Let's say john mark is one of the 120 believers that are in the upper room in acts chapter 2 Let's say that john mark was there for the pouring out of the holy spirit in ad 30 That means peter had a maximum of 16 years For john mark to learn his preaching ministry to be able to write it down and to develop a relationship with peter That peter would call of his son before john mark traveled with paul and then john mark traveled with barnum 16 years of peter's life Paul gained a ministry partner and you and I have the gospel of mark I don't know about you connor. That sounds like a pretty good investment of 16 years 16 years gave paul A partner to travel with and then somebody to call to his side when everybody else had abandoned him And also gave us what you and I now read as the gospel of mark The reason I chose john mark is number one of a glut for punishment and I wanted a character that's hard to find But what I found Is a young man who changed the pages of christian history who sat Literally and ate with peter literally ate with paul abandons paul And then paul still calls him a brother that says hey, baby. He's good for it This young man is a first century hero And he's the product He's not the guy doing the investment. He's the guy who was invested in now. Yes, john mark likely follow the same process And poured into others We just don't know who they were right. I can only give you the information that the page gives me to tell you What john mark is the product of intentional personal investment If 16 years could change john mark's life that much What could a couple years of your life investing in someone else do That's why I chose john mark he's just a random he's literally just a random kid He's literally just a random kid He was probably born After jesus was born So he would have been one of the younger younger kids if he was there in in acts chapter 2 if he was part of the earliest Church he was a younger kid. He's probably the same age as timothy, right? They're the young and upper covers While the rest of us old guys are up here being gray and old. Okay, cool Sidebar every time I mention how old I am my children sing the jurassic park theme song so If your kids aren't doing that for you consider yourself less And right now they're going d d d d I want you to understand that you have a responsibility to pour your faith into others You could be the next peter pouring into john mark You could be the next mary the mother of john mark, where do you think john mark learned his faith from the first place? I guarantee you. I know where timothy got his faith from his mama and his grandmama as paul told us so Where did john mark get his faith? I would say likely his mother john mark's father is more than likely roman and gentile john mark's mother was jewish So i'm gonna argue that john mark likely got his faith from his mama and then it got invested in by peter and by paul I got a couple of verses here Eric to be honest, i'm not going to read them all I included them in the notes because I want you to see them I just want to make sure you fully understand that you have a responsibility to be a disciple maker So I just want to read you a few verses to establish. This is letter f in your notes the universal call of disciple making Number one everybody is called to make disciples matthew 28 19 through 20. That's the great commission Therefore go to all the world and make disciples baptizing them name of the father son the holy spirit teaching them All that I have commanded you and I will be with you to the end of the age That command is to you directly Many people think it's the great commission like he commissioned the church to do the job I believe that's a misunderstanding in the past. It is the great co put a dash in their mission It is your mission to make disciples. It is your mission to make disciples It is your mission to make disciples all of you are watching me online right now It is your mission to make disciples. We do the mission collectively together But it is not our collective mission. It is our individual mission that we accomplish collectively The reason that's so important Is it is not enough to go to church and give money and expect somebody else to be a disciple maker That's not okay Please come to church and give your money. That's fine. Do that all day long. The trustees will love you The budget team is going to be super happy But that doesn't make disciples What makes disciples is intentional relational investment in people In case you thought I wasn't being specific enough second timothy chapter 2 verses 1 through 2 men are called to disciple other men Of titus chapter 2 verses 3 through 5 women are called to disciple other women Acts chapter 18 verses 24 to 26 Married couples are called to disciple people together. That's the paul and apollos or the apollos with proscelen aquila passage And the big one that I never want you to forget deuteronomy chapter 6 verses 5 through 9 parents are called to disciple their children Those are your responsibility Or maybe saying it better. Those are our responsibility It's my job to disciple my children My job to stand arm in arm with my wife and disciple anybody that god puts in our path You know what's not my job? To disciple your children You know what's not pastor tyler's job? To disciple your children My job to disciple you it's your job to disciple your children It's your job to disciple that young man that's in your life or that young woman. It's in your life or that co-worker or that neighbor Or that basketball player Because jesse's looking good today It is our collective responsibility To pour ourselves into those who need it Just like peter poured into john mart just like paul poured into timothy And again to quote pastor rick Christianity will die if we don't do our job because we're always one generation away from extinction So, let me give you the takeaway and then we'll do we got time mel I got time for like maybe 10 minutes for questions Let me give you the takeaway. Here it is john mark reminds us That disciples are formed through patient investment in relationship Christian maturity is not a solo pursuit. It is a shared responsibility I gave you the story of john mark merely as an example You have to decide who is god put in my life? For me to learn from and who is god put in my life to teach others?