Welcome to catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you for being a part of our service whether you are here in the Wilmington campus Or you are joining us online. Thank you for being a part of the catalyst family While I was in the back working with the tech team I had the opportunity to see a little bit of the live chat that goes on on the live stream So if you're watching this online We do have the ability to actually be in a live chat and interact with church members And there was one of our church members who is a Wilmington resident and and she also works as a nurse So sometimes she's on the online campus and sometimes she's here and she said good morning from 10,000 feet So her family is on the way back from vacation and they are live streaming our service on the Wi-Fi on the plane as they cruise At 10,000 feet so that wins the award for most interesting church attendance for today I don't think I've ever seen somebody attend church at 10,000 feet We are going to be as you saw in the video we are going to be continuing exploring How do we grow in our faith? I told you last week every week this year I want us to repeat the vision statement of our church. I want it to become part of our DNA So our vision is a church is to be a community that represents Jesus that does three things Anybody remember what the first one is? meets needs second one builds relationships The third one matures Christian So our vision is to be a community that represents Jesus that meets needs builds relationships and matures Christian and this morning we are going to get into our I should say our our method our mode our plan for how do we mature Christians? How do we work through that life cycle of helping someone understand? What it means to be a Christ follower and how do you grow in doing that? Now there's a few things I need to make you aware of so a couple different ways that we're going to be utilizing the App this morning first if you are an app user the sermon notes are in there So if you click on sermon notes, that's where the button is to ask questions So if you are online Our online chat host is going to click give you a button in the chat So that you can open the question form in a different browser window But if you're here in the room you have to open the sermon notes panel and then in there It's not just where we take notes, but also where we ask questions Dino if you will go ahead and hit that poll Also, I want to do something a little different this morning. I want to do a live poll while the sermon is going on So if you're an app user I want you to go into the catalyst messaging group and you will notice that Dino is just posted for us a poll In that messaging group while I give my introduction I want to ask everybody to go in there and it says in the past year, which best describes you? I haven't talked with any pre-christians about following Jesus I've talked to one pre-christian about following Jesus I've talked to two to four pre-christians about following Jesus or I've talked to five or more So if you are a catalyst app user and you're in our messaging group This goes for all of you joining us online as well If you're online all your votes are immediately going to be tabulated in real time So those who are in here and online, please jump into the catalyst messaging group Respond to that poll and then those of you want to be able to ask questions. You can follow along with sermon notes Here is the key thought for this series Christian maturity is a shared Cycle as we grow we help others to do the same Christian maturity is a shared cycle and as we grow we help others to do the same Now I see that the poll is rolling in so that's fantastic I'm gonna jump back out of the messaging group and jump over to the notes Dino Can you give me that graphic really quick? So this is the graphic I know you probably saw this last year I changed the color and I Updated the wording a little bit. So Aaron this is like the 2.0 or 3.0 Rendition of this tool But this is the tool that I want you to be able to use when you are trying to help someone to follow Christ So I also dropped this image in the sermon notes So you have it on your phone so you can take it with you. You can email it to yourself You begin in the upper right hand portion where it says pre-christian Pre-christians become believers when they place their trust in Jesus then transition down to where it says believer Believers become followers when they grow in lifestyle obedience, then you move over to the left follower Followers become disciple makers when they learn what they believe and why they believe it and then you go up disciple maker Disciple makers intentionally invest in others who trust grow and learn this is the cycle. I want everybody to learn Later on in this series, we're actually going to Self identify where you are on this so that we as a church know how to help you But this is a tool for the next four weeks. We're gonna go through in each week I'm in the center on one of these four quadrants today is the trust Quadrant so I want to answer the question. What does it mean to trust Jesus and before somebody asks? What if I'm already a Christian? How does this message apply to me? Because this is not just so I can explain it so that we all understand that pastor bill has some sort of Theological understanding of salvation. This is training I want you to be able to explain what it means to trust Jesus to anybody who asks Because let's be perfectly honest if if we're doing our job, right as a church Hopefully we come across pre-christian Hopefully we come across people who have questions about Jesus who have doubts about the church If all we do is hang out with Christian people we will fail to do the mission that Jesus left for us to do if all we do is hang out in our holy little huddle and You know listen to our favorite Christian music and watch our favorite Christian movies and we don't actually Interact with people who disagree with us or maybe you are hurting or are broken We will never accomplish the mission that Christ left for us So if you are joining us online or you're here this morning and you are in that pre-christian category My hope is to present what it means to trust in Jesus Hopefully the majority of us that's not you you're already past the pre-christian part and you're either a believer a follower or you're a Full-on disciple maker if you're one of those three then my hope is to give you a simple one two three step method That you can take with you to be able to share what it means to trust in Jesus with anybody when you come across it So now that I've given a little bit of time, let's just take a look at the results of the poll So here we go. It says in the past year, which best describes you we had four votes for I haven't talked with any pre-christians About following Jesus we had nine votes for I talked with one pre-christian about following Jesus We had 19 votes for I've talked with two to four Pre-christians about following Jesus and two people I talked with five or more So I have to be honest when I came over this idea zero idea was gonna look like But what I like about this is this tells us who we are as a church this tells us exactly where we are and Where we can improve where we can grow and where we can go So if you are in the sermon notes in the app or you brought your Bible turn with me to Acts chapter 17 I'm going to forego the big Bible story this morning Because pastor Tyler did such an amazing job at communion and I gotta say he is a fantastic young man to work with we are a Blessed church to have somebody like Tyler, but so that I don't make the service too long We're gonna skip the big Bible story today. We're gonna jump into Acts chapter 17 Just to set the setting for you of where are we in Acts chapter 17? well The book of Acts is the beginning of the church the birth of the church and in Acts chapter 17 The church is already born Paul who started as saw a Pharisee Paul is now a follower of Jesus. He is traveling. He is preaching the word of Christ He's preaching the gospel that good news and in Greek the UN Galeon telling you the good news that has happened Paul is traveling he's preaching and here in Acts chapter 17. He is in the city of Athens. I Don't mind telling you Jen. This is probably my favorite sermon in the entire Bible And it's not because I don't love Jesus listen Jesus gave some good stuff, right? We should we should totally learn but what I love about this this sermon is it's so relatable For who we are as the church today in 2026 So the first thing I want to do is just read the text to you starting in verse 22 Then we'll go back and we'll chop it up a little bit. So here we go. Acts chapter 17 start reading in verse 22 Then Paul stood up in the meeting of the Areopagus and said People of Athens I see that in every way you are very religious For as I walked as I walked around and looked carefully at your objects of worship I even found an altar with this inscription to an unknown God So you are ignorant of the very thing you worship and this is what I am going to proclaim to you The God who made the world and everything in it is the Lord of heaven and earth And does not live in temples built by human hands And he is not served by human hands as if he needed anything Rather he himself gives everyone life and breath and everything else From one man he made all the nations that they should inhabit the whole earth And he marked out their appointed times in history and the boundaries of their lands God did this so that they would seek him and perhaps reach out for him and find him So he is not far from any one of us For in him we live and move and have our being as some of your own poets have said we are his offspring Therefore since we are God's offspring We should not think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone an image made by human design and skill In the past God overlooked such ignorance but now he commands all people everywhere to repent For he has set a day when he will judge the world with justice by the man he has appointed He has given proof of this to everyone by raising him from the dead When they heard about the resurrection of the dead some of them sneered But others said we want to hear you again on this subject At that Paul left the council Some of the people became followers of Paul and believed Among them was Dionysius a member of the Areopagus And also a woman named Damaris and a woman named Ptolemy So let's go back to 22 And I want to set the scene here because unless you understand Paul's setting And why he built this sermon this way you might miss how stupidly brilliant this dude is That's a special theological term just for you Kerrigan He's stupidly brilliant He's a great man He's a great man That's a special theological term just for you Kerrigan He's stupidly brilliant Watch this In 22 Paul stood up in a meeting of the Areopagus Stop You need to know what the Areopagus is So if you go to Athens the Areopagus is actually still there today It is a raised rock formation in the middle of the city of Athens It's not a building It's not made out of columns It's actually a physical structure of rock that rises from the ground It rises from the base land at Athens and it kind of slopes up and then it drops off strictly at one end But what it was in his day was the place where a honored council of philosophers would meet And they would really do three main things They discussed religious ideas Because remember Greek philosophy That's where we get the study of philosophy from The Greeks were huge thinkers This group of philosophers also was in charge of all public speeches in Athens If you wanted to come to Athens and be able to speak in the public square or be able to preach your ideas You had to survive the crew first You had to go to the Areopagus You had to debate with them And then they would put you on the speaking schedule to be allowed to speak in the town And the third thing was the council at the Areopagus did have a certain amount of civil authority It was the philosophers that oversaw all murder trials for instance Because you would think that a group of philosophers would be incredibly interested in evidence and the rule of law and truth And so he's not just in a place of cultural influence He is literally in a place of legal and civil influence But in his day, this is the absolute belly of the cultural beast I tried all week long to think about like where What's the modern day analogy? Like where do more people go to get their cultural influence than anywhere else? I'm going with Joe Rogan's podcast It's the number one podcast Listen, you laugh It's the number one podcast on the planet More people listen to Joe Rogan's podcast than any other news outlet worldwide Now, the Joe Rogan experience doesn't possess any legal or civil authority That's, I mean, probably a good thing, right? So if you could imagine Joe Rogan also being in charge of who else is allowed to have a podcast That's the Areopagus The center of cultural thought, which also is the gatekeeper to allowing anybody else So any of the other favorite podcasters that you listen to Whether you're a Christian podcast, whether you're a crime podcast, whether you're like flagrant podcast Whether you're a Wes Huff fan, whatever it may be Everybody has to get their podcasting permission from Joe Rogan That's what the Areopagus was So when, and it seems like just such a random reference Oh yeah, Paul was at the Areopagus And he will stop to understand the cultural weight He has walked into the belly of the beast And said the message of the gospel is so good Is so philosophically sound I am going to walk toe to toe with a place where Socrates and Aristotle did their work This is where he's at in 22 And he opens with people of Athens Stop again Here's the other thing I need you to understand Paul is not preaching to a Jewish audience And that's super important Because this sermon, unlike many other sermons in the book of Acts This sermon does not have a Jewish flavor It has a Greek flavor Anybody after church want to go get gyros and keftas Call me I'm your boy But that's important because you have to understand Paul knew his audience Paul knew he's not preaching to people who answer to the Sanhedrin He's not preaching to the people of the Pharisees and the Sadducees Who want to argue their different theological opinions He walked into Joe Rogan's podcast And he's going to spit it with the best cultural minds of their day On their turf using their language That's why this is powerful Because people of Athens I see that in every way you are very religious Now I have to say It is my opinion This is my opinion This is not scriptural truth This is Pastor Bill editorializing In the same way that I believe Peter and Andrew were rednecks I believe Paul was a wise guy And the reason that I believe this is Peter and Andrew grew up in Galilee They were fishermen They were backwoods guys Jesus is from Nazareth Definitely had a John Deere just saying absolutely Paul is educated But educated with attitude Right? So Paul is definitely a smart man He was raised to learn not just Jewish thought But he was raised to understand Greek thought In fact he quotes from Greek philosophers In this sermon Knowing full well who he's talking to Very smart I'm not going to point any fingers But if you've ever met somebody who's As equal parts smart As they are sarcastic and pushy To me that's like Tony Soprano That's who this is So that's who Paul is in my mind So when he says Hey people of Athens I see that in every way you're very religious He's making a two sided statement here On the front end It looks like it's a compliment The problem is The term very religious also means Entertains many demons Now we don't read it in our language that way But that's the term When he says you are very religious He means you guys entertain all kinds of demonic stuff So when they first heard it They probably heard it was a compliment And then as he unwinds this sermon And as he gets to the end I think they all of a sudden realize He's probably not complimenting them as much as it sounded in the beginning So he says I see it every way you're very religious Then 23 For as I walked around I carefully looked at your objects of worship And I found even an altar With this inscription To an unknown God This is where the Brilliance of Paul begins And this is where our master class From the apostle Paul On being able to share Jesus In culture the right way starts Paul did not Begin with Genesis With sin or with a savior He began In their culture With a starting point Of something that they recognized But did not fully understand And this is what I call the opportunity When you are wanting to share Christ With other people You must start with commonality And I'll just go ahead and say On record, on video, let's get this Let's get this right I think it is bad form In today's culture to start preaching Jesus By bashing people over the head With the Bible and reminding them That they are sinners Does that mean that we are theologically incorrect? No, it doesn't We are theologically correct That we are all sinners and we need a savior Pastor Tyler did a great job Of explaining that at communion Here's the problem And I saw it online a couple of months ago And it just has not left my brain You ever see something online that's like an earwig This is what this person said She said, this is why I can't stand Christian You want to tell me that I'm a sinner So that you can sell me the only savior You sound like an abusive ex-boyfriend I was like Okay lady, heard Right? She was definitely post-Christian She definitely had already kind of unwound And undivided her faith And that was her comment She said, here's what I think about Christians That's how active I am So that you can sell me the solution to my badness You're an abusive ex-boyfriend And I don't need that So to try to explain the difference I brought my flashlight Anybody who likes pocket flashlights This is the Wubin G5 The best flashlight you'll ever buy Not a sponsor, just saying I've had it for 9 months, it's in my pocket I absolutely love it I know it looks like a Bic lighter But it's a flashlight do I use a flashlight? Like what do you do to use a flashlight? Right, you press a button, right? Yeah, it's like I told you, it's a bright flashlight. All I do is press a button and the light comes on. I press another button and the light comes off. So how do you use a flashlight? Press a button. Press a button, it turns on. Press another button, it turns off. Why does the flashlight work? You notice the different question there? The first question was how do I use a flashlight? Just press the button. Now why does the button work? Well now, I mean we could go into the fact that there's a USB-C charging port here and there's like a battery inside and this button must be linked to an electric circuit. You know you get asked by my son-in-law all about circuits, right? So there's a circuit in here and when we press this button it must complete the circuit so the power from the battery is going to the the LED that then is illuminating light. Am I right in my explanation? But does that tell you how to use a flashlight or does that tell you how a flashlight works? Tells me how a flashlight works. If I explain to you how a flashlight works but don't explain to you how to use a flashlight or when to use a flashlight. What good have I really done? All I've done is showed you that I understand how a flashlight works. So here's the deal. When we tell people that the world is corrupt, right? What's the big story of the Bible? Creation, corruption, redemption, redemption and restoration, right? When we tell people the world is in sin, we are desperately lost in sin without Christ. Christ came to be the one-time payment for sin and when we believe in him that's how we're saved. That's telling people how salvation works. That's not telling people just trust Jesus. That's the difference. We tell people all the electrical engineering of how this little flashlight works and what's the battery life and you know if you if you double click it all of a sudden it flashes different colors and you know there's yeah right sorry. Give the ADHD a flashlight the sermon is gonna go way off the rails. But here's why this is important. Paul doesn't explain anything about original sin, about the cost of sin being blood payment. He doesn't explain that a darn thing in this sermon and that's why I love it so much. We need to get back to teaching people who are lost in the dark push the button so you can see. Not here's the electrical engineering schematic and once you read it all and you fully understand how the battery charges and why we use USB-C instead of USB-A and then when you double once we explain all the engineering then we'll give you the flashlight so you can see in the dark. That's what we do when we give overly theological explanation of salvation. Now what am I not saying? Am I not saying that it's wrong that we should be able to explain why salvation works? Heck yeah we should. We should be able to show theologically why Jesus is a Savior but telling people why Jesus is a Savior is not the same as teaching them to trust him as a Savior. That's the difference. For this method we are going to bypass explaining why salvation works. I'm not going to give you the electrical engineering schematic of why my flashlight works. I'm gonna tell you that if you were in the dark this flashlight's in my pocket and when I turn it on I can see in the dark. Now if you ask me well how'd that work right now you're asking me the electrical engineering question but Sharita for somebody who's lost in the dark don't you just want to see? When somebody who's lost in pain and agony and misery don't they just want to see? We can help people see and then as they start growing in their faith they'll get you remember what we told you that when you press this button you can see in the dark. Here's why all of that works because there was a garden and sin entered our creation and because of man's willing to so be that's the electrical engineering part. We can just teach people to trust Jesus and that's what Paul does here. So he starts with now I'm gonna put in my pocket so I stop playing with it get distracted. So when he starts with an unknown God here's the opportunity. He begins with something that people recognize but don't understand and in this moment in this story it's the altar to the unknown God. So then here's letter B in your notes. Now Paul builds his argument from the opportunity from the point of recognition that is that is recognized but not understood. So then we go to verse 24. The God who made the world and everything in it is the Lord of heaven and earth and does not live in temples built by human hands 25. He's not served by human hands as if he needs anything rather he himself gives everyone life and breath and everything else. Those two verses together this is Paul's first premise because remember he's he's in deep in Greek philosophy territory. So he is building a deductive argument and those who are following in your notes I've put the full argument in the notes so that you can analyze it later but here's premise one of his argument. There is a single God who created everything including humans. Now to the Greeks this would have been a little bit challenging to their worldview right. The Greeks have an entire pantheon of gods. Anybody see the new Percy Jackson remake on Disney Plus right. They have an entire pantheon of gods. So when Paul says there is a single God who created everything including humans he's going back to the beginning and he's using the point of the opportunity that point of recognition and now he's using that and he's building a bridge to get from the point of recognition from the opportunity and build that bridge to Jesus. He starts with premise one. There's a single God who created everything including humans. Then we get to verse 26. From one man he made all the nations that they should inhabit the whole earth and he marked out their appointed times in history and their boundaries on the land. 27. God did this so they would seek him and perhaps reach out for him and find him though he is not far from any of us. So here's point two of Paul's deductive argument. First there is a God who created everything including humans. Point number two or premise two in his argument. God created humans to seek and to know him. So number one there is a God who created everything including humans and then premise two God created humans to seek him and to know him. So now he's adding to the understanding of who the true God is. Then we get to 28. For in him we live and move and have our being as some of your poets have said we are his offspring. Stop. Dino can you give me verse 28 one more time? I just need you to see this. For in him we live and have our being is a quote from one Greek philosopher and then we are his offspring is a quote from another Greek philosopher. Paul used the writing of his audience to reach them. He didn't start with the Hebrew scriptures. He didn't start with Adam and Eve in the big Bible story the way we study it. He started with their writings and said okay here's what in him you live and move and have our being and we are his offspring. Now 29 now he's going to bring this argument in. Therefore since we are God's offspring we should not think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone or an image made by human design and skill. So here's the conclusion of his three-part argument. First there is a God who made everything including human. Two God created humans to seek him and then he gets it to here. If God created human beings or humans as living beings to seek him, God cannot be a statue or an idol. He must also be a living God. Why? Because the Greeks understood one simple fact. Anything that makes a thing must possess the nature of the thing in order to make it. So what he's saying is the way the Greeks worship their gods they worship all these like big statues right? The stone statues, the gold statues, the little idols. He's going all of that's bungus. That's a theological term right there. All that's bungus. Why? Because the God who made us as living beings he himself is a living being. You can't claim that your God is made out of stone or silver or gold and made you if you're a living being it requires God to be a living being. He's ruling out the entire Greek pantheon with this one simplistic argument. There is God who made everything including people. He made us to seek him and if that's true that there is a God who made everything including people and that he made us to seek him then all of your stone idols can't actually be gods. Because the one thing they would understand I think therefore anybody know it? I am. I think therefore I am. Classic Greek philosophy. He's saying if you are a living being who thinks God must be a living being who thinks. Now that sort of seems like a simplistic argument for us generally because in our cultural day we don't question the living nature of God or the way God is portrayed in any of the scriptural text. But that's our cultural heritage. He's talking in the first century when there's a pantheon of gods running around town and there's Athena and Poseidon and Hades and all the other do. And they see those gods as stone and silver. So he's really challenging them at the heart of what they believe about their culture trying to build a bridge from the opportunity something that's recognized but not understood and build a bridge back to Jesus. Then once he builds the bridge then we get to a letter C in your notes. Paul offers an action step. Acts chapter 17 this is verses 30 to 34. In the past God overlooked such ignorance but now he commands all people everywhere to repent. Again don't forget the ask a question is in the sermon notes in the app. I need to harp on this word repent for a second because I had a very healthy debate with a pastor friend of mine over the correct interpretation of this word in this verse. His stance was that by using the word repent Paul is automatically importing the entire Judeo-Christian theology of the sin savior paradigm. And we should read that into this one verse repent in this one setting. I love this man he's a good he's pastors today in the town where I used to live he's a great man. I disagree with his theological opinion here that doesn't mean that I don't think he's a great man or great pastor. I just want to say it up front. Here's why I cannot agree with my friend. There's nothing in Paul's argument to the conclusion that relied on any theological things from the Old Testament. He used Greek philosophy he built a formulated Greek style argument why now at the close of it we would read back that he brought in the entire sin savior paradigm. Doesn't make sense to me and when I look at what the actual definition of the word repent means the word repent doesn't imply the sin savior paradigm that we have been taught that it does. That's because we inherited a Judeo-Christian culture with the word repent. The culture came before the word that doesn't mean the word has to bring the whole culture with it. In Paul's day he is addressing a culture that did not agree with the Old Testament. Guess where we live today? A culture that does not agree that the Bible is God's Word or that the Bible is completely true. So what if if I disagree with my friend? Now if you agree with my friend you're totally allowed to live there. You do not have to agree with me. We are allowed to have healthy theological disagreements in this church. You are allowed to get on my notes and tell me I'm an absolute idiot. Ball let's go. Game on. But I'm gonna tell you to the best of my ability to the best of my studying and the best of my application why I need to disagree with my friend here because the word repent literally means to change one's thinking. What were the Greeks all about? Philosophy, thought, thinking it through. When Paul is standing in the middle of Greek culture and he's using a word that references thinking it makes more cultural sense that he is addressing them in their language with their kind of a term and I'm still not sure they would have completely gotten it because again he's he's on the Areopagus where there's all kinds of I mean Paul was just one speaker in a list of speakers somebody's up after Paul and they're gonna have a whole other idea that's to be considered but I can't stand up here in good conscience and tell you that the only way to share the gospel is you have to make people understand that they're sinners in order to come to a Savior because I do not believe that that is what Paul did here Paul found an opportunity in culture something that they understand that they recognized but didn't fully understand then he built a bridge using this deductive argument now do you have to use a deductive argument all the time no why did Paul use a deductive argument because they're Greek philosophers he's speaking to them in their language and then he offers this action step repentance is changing one's thinking about God I do not think that we need to import the entire Reformation style theology just because of the one word repent now again you're free to disagree with me we can debate it via email this week or even have a phone call but I think what Paul is doing is he's using their cultural idea about thinking about God which they would have done a lot and get them to change their thinking now why should they change their thinking that's where we get to verse 31 he meaning God has set a day he will judge the world with justice by the man he has appointed and he has given proof of this to everyone by raising him from the dead the Greeks do not have a problem with an afterlife judgment by the way neither did the Mesopotamians the Romans the Egyptians the Aztec the Mayans pretty much everybody except for the atheists of the late 19th to 21st centuries they're the only people who don't believe in an afterlife judgment the Jews have an afterlife judgment the Muslims have an afterlife judgment Christians have an afterlife judgment druids wiccans like I literally can't even think of a philosophy that doesn't have an afterlife judgment unless you're a full-born atheist and there's nothing happens after the electrical impulses in your brain stop firing they're the only people who didn't believe in an afterlife judgment but because Paul has built this argument there's one God who created everybody he's gonna be the judge and he's told us who our judge is gonna be because there's only one man who's come back from the dead then in verse 32 as you would expect some people think he's crazy 32 when they heard about the resurrection of the dead some of them sneered but others said we want to hear you again on the subject 33 Paul leaves the council 34 some of them believe and then those individuals are named Dionysius who's a member of the Areopagus which means Paul used an entire philosophical argument to reach a Greek philosopher that's what that means also a woman named Damaris very interesting that in the middle of Greek culture on a Greek philosophical rock God calls a woman to follow Christ I don't know why that would be another really interesting point and when we get to heaven I'd like to meet the Maris what was she doing there was she selling bread was she a member of the Areopagus was she the wife of an Areopagus member I don't see a daughter was she just some random lady walking by who thought Paul was cute I mean I kind of know but I'd like to know who Damaris was so why why do I pick this sermon for this day because I believe Paul gives us a perfect one two three step for all of us to be able to invite people to trust in Jesus without having to a defend the Bible or B convince people that they're sinners but here's how this works it's three steps number one you find common ground number two you build a bridge to Jesus and number three you have to offer an action step and I can't say that enough you must offer an action step if you find common ground and talk about Jesus but you never actually ask them to take a step you're teaching them how the flashlight works but leaving them in the dark that's not acceptable we need to teach them how it works and John get them out of the dark so what does this look like I'd like to give you an example in our culture today let's take it out of the first century and Aaron let's bring it to today I don't know idea what that was but ADHD went oh that's loud so here we go justice a pretty hot button topic word in our culture today justice whether it's legal justice like in the law sense of the term whether it's social justice in the social soft science sense of the term the word justice is really important to a lot of people today so if I were to choose justice as my opportunity something that people recognize but don't understand here's how the argument the way I would build it I would say hey Casey I think we live in a world where there are some people who do some terribly evil stuff and die without facing just I think that's true I think it's true that there are some evil people who die and they quote-unquote get away with it yeah maybe okay but if justice is really real and it's not something that we just made up then evil cannot go unpunished forever right so point number one I mean I mean acknowledging that we live in an evil world and that evil is done and that some people die without ever facing justice for the evil that they do granted that will a lot of people will agree with that then you get to the second point well is justice just something that we made up is it a fairy tale to make us feel better do we just make up this concept that life should be fair why do children think that life should be fair is there something deep within us that really believes that justice is real because if justice is real then it can't go unpunished forever which means conclusion if justice is real there must be a final judgment in the afterlife because if somebody dies somebody does something horribly evil in this life and they die and go unpunished and nothing happens in the afterlife then justice is nothing more than the fairy tale you tell yourself to feel better at night but if there is real justice then that means there must be some kind of afterlife judgment that all of us have to face and if that's true then no matter if you die in this life and you quote-unquote get away with the evil that you've done you can't get away from the afterlife judgment that's where true justice happen see I took something culturally relevant in our culture today the idea of justice I haven't mentioned Jesus I haven't mentioned the Bible I haven't mentioned resurrection I got them to a single point for justice to be real at all there must be an afterlife judgment now that's a deductive argument philosophically that's a deductive argument in order for you to escape an afterlife judgment you either a must admit that evil people die and everybody answers for the evil they do in this life I don't think and Nancy I just don't think anybody's gonna defend that point we've all seen it or heard of it somebody did something super evil and quote-unquote got away with it so I don't think anybody's gonna defend premise number one which means everything comes down to premise number two if justice is real justice can't I mean evil cannot go unpunished mr. Phil I don't think anybody's gonna argue that one either none of us want to see evil go unpunished I mean if I would ask you to raise your hands and I'm not by the way I would say that there's many of us that would like to be around to watch evil get punished especially when evil is done to those we love some of us might raise our hands don't do it to be in line to assist in delving out the evil that's done to the people that we love right deep down inside in the place you don't want to tell anybody about everybody believes that you never get away with it the only way that that's true is if just like Paul said there is a true afterlife judgment that none of us can escape well now that's gonna lead to a question well how do I know which one if I can guarantee that there is an afterlife judgment well how do I know which one if the Greeks the Romans and the Muslims are correct then it's a straight 50-50 balance your life is on a scale if you do 51% good you go to heaven and if you do 51% bad you go to hell and here's the problem you'll never know where the scales are at in your life that's that version of afterlife judgment if the Vikings and the Aztecs and there's another group and it's just out of my mind right now but there was a third group of people who throughout history who believed it wasn't the scales of your life but the manner of your death that guaranteed you entrance in heaven so that would be the Islamic belief that dying in jihad automatically sends you to paradise that would be the Viking belief that dying in battle automatically sends you to Valhalla and the Aztec belief that dying in war automatically sent you to their version of heaven that doesn't matter how you live that only matters how you die you have to guarantee that you die in this one right way or you get to heaven well if the scales view is out and the how I die view is out Ethan how are we all going to be judged this is where we come back to exactly what Paul did Paul said God has already showed us who the afterlife judges there's only one guy who died and lived who came back to prove to us that he's the only right judge for humanity then you point to the resurrection I still didn't use the Bible I still didn't argue God's existence I just simply said you're hurting I need you to know that that person who did that evil thing whether it was to you or there's two family member or whether it's just something you heard of they'll never get away with it well they're getting away with it now yes but there's a God who writes down everything and I need you to know they can't escape him maybe they escape the earthly authorities maybe they go hide in some non-extradition treaty country you cannot escape the long arm of God he sees all he records all and he knows all how can you be so sure because there was this guy who lived in the first century who died and came back to life so that he could prove that there was a God that no one can escape now we just started in culture found a commonality and built a bridge directly to Jesus I didn't have to it's Aaron I didn't have to explain how the flashlight works all I need you to do is trust that nobody gets away with it everybody answers for their life good bad or indifferent I don't care if you're handing out meals for the homeless of the Salvation Army or you work right alongside Hitler everybody answers for their life but because of true justice and you go well somebody if they're thinking they're gonna come to you and say well the Christian story is not just because you're not getting punished for the evil you did your story is all about the fact that Jesus takes your punishment now go okay so do you think it's wrong for there to be mercy you think it's wrong for there to be grace you think I'm not allowed to tell my child you deserve to be punished for a week but I called Jim and he talked me off the ledge so you're gonna be grounded for three days instead of a week oh no no I didn't say that so you want to live in a world with no mercy well no I didn't say that mercy is not bad well then why is mercy bad if it's applied by God wouldn't we want God to be merciful wouldn't we want God to be just doesn't that show us how important mercy is in the reflection of God's justice that's the kind of message we need to bring to culture it's not that again it's not that I don't want us to be able to explain sin salvation I want you to understand the whole Bible story and all the theology that goes with it but when somebody's lost in the dark you need to teach her how to turn the flashlight on and then once we make it to a well-lit room we could get out our Bibles and you explain why the flashlight works but for starters let's just get people out of the dark let's just get people to stop being lost where they're at that makes sense to everybody I realize it was an overly philosophical way to present the gospel but that's why I chose this passage because I think Paul does a great job and let's be perfectly honest the culture that you and I live today is post-Christian there are people living in America today who have grown up never reading the Bible there are people who live in America today who have never had a Bible in their home have never gone to church never learned Old Testament Bible stories because our country no longer has a shared tribal knowledge about God there's a lot of gods in our cultural marketplace today you can believe in the God of the Christian you can believe in the God of the Muslim you can believe in the God of You can believe in the the God of Native American spiritualism or paganism or witchcraft or guess what you can believe there's no God or you can be one of those really annoying atheists who claims to believe in the flying spaghetti monster I don't see a whole lot of difference between downtown America and downtown Athens in the first century when we walk out of these doors there's an awful lot of idols out there there's an awful lot of idols distracting people and claiming different things are true and we need to cut through the noise and bring people a bridge from wherever they are to Jesus don't bridge them to the church don't bridge them to you you know don't try to make them like you we bridge them directly to Jesus and we let Jesus do the rest I forget who said it this week but somebody said you don't you don't go into the shower already clean that's what the showers you don't have to come to Jesus already clean that's what he's for that's what he does we just need to build that bridge and get people to Jesus so let me give you the takeaway and then Mel if you want to start sending me some questions to 1115 we probably got like maybe five to seven minutes so here's your takeaway trusting Jesus is submitting our thinking and lifestyle to him trusting Jesus is submitting our thinking and lifestyle to him