Habits for Health 1: Prayer
Friday, January 8, 2016 10:39 AM
Prayer PROTECTS us from TEMPTATION
Watch and pray so that you will not fall into
temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is
weak.
Matthew 26:41 NIV
Jesus' teaching on prayer
Matthew 6:5-13 NLT
When you pray, don’t be like the hypocrites who
love to pray publicly on street corners and in the
synagogues where everyone can see them. I tell you
the truth, that is all the reward they will ever
get. But when you pray, go away by yourself, shut
the door behind you, and pray to your Father in
private. Then your Father, who sees everything, will
reward you. “When you pray, don’t babble on and
on as people of other religions do. They think their
prayers are answered merely by repeating their
words again and again. Don’t be like them, for your
Father knows exactly what you need even before
Habits for Health Page 1

Father knows exactly what you need even before
you ask him! Pray like this: Our Father in
heaven, may your name be kept holy. May your
Kingdom come soon. May your will be done on
earth, as it is in heaven. Give us today the food we
need, and forgive us our sins, as we have forgiven
those who sin against us. And don’t let us yield to
temptation, but rescue us from the evil one.
Prayer is BETWEEN YOU and GOD
Matthew 6:5-6 NLT
When you pray, don’t be like the hypocrites who
love to pray publicly on street corners and in the
synagogues where everyone can see them. I tell you
the truth, that is all the reward they will ever
get. But when you pray, go away by yourself, shut
the door behind you, and pray to your Father in
private. Then your Father, who sees everything, will
reward you.
Prayer is NOT about the AMOUNT or
REPETITION of the words
Matthew 6:7-8 NLT
Habits for Health Page 2

Matthew 6:7-8 NLT
When you pray, don’t babble on and on as people of
other religions do. They think their prayers are
answered merely by repeating their words again
and again. Don’t be like them, for your Father
knows exactly what you need even before you ask
him!
Prayer should put God, His holiness, and His
Kingdom first
Matthew 6:9-10 NLT
Pray like this: Our Father in heaven, may your name
be kept holy. May your Kingdom come soon. May
your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven.
Prayer REMINDS us of our NEED for GOD
Matthew 6:11-13 NLT
Give us today the food we need, and forgive us our
sins, as we have forgiven those who sin against
us. And don’t let us yield to temptation, but rescue
Habits for Health Page 3

us. And don’t let us yield to temptation, but rescue
us from the evil one.
Health Question for the week:
If the measure of your spiritual health was
determined by your habit of prayer, how healthy
are you?
Connect with us today and take a Next Step:
Catalyst302.com/Connect
Give securely online:
Catalyst302.com/Give
Habits for Health Page 4

Habits for Health 2: Serving
Thursday, January 21, 2016 4:47 PM
Habits for Health: Serving
Habit: an acquired behavior, regularly followed
until it becomes almost involuntary.
We call a habit "bad" when it's effectual outcome
on our daily lives is NEGATIVE
We call a habit "good" when it's effectual outcome
on our daily lives is POSITIVE
What are the habits of your life?
How do those habits affect you spiritually?
Key Thought:
"My habits determine my health."
Habit: an acquired behavior, regularly followed,
until it becomes nearly involuntary.
Habits for Health Page 5

The Habit of Serving
John 13:3-17 HCSB
Jesus knew that the Father had given everything into
His hands, that He had come from God, and that He
was going back to God. So He got up from supper, laid
aside His robe, took a towel, and tied it around
Himself. Next, He poured water into a basin and began
to wash His disciples’ feet and to dry them with the
towel tied around Him. He came to Simon Peter, who
asked Him, “Lord, are You going to wash my
feet?” Jesus answered him, “What I’m doing you don’t
understand now, but afterward you will know.” “You
will never wash my feet—ever!” Peter said. Jesus
replied, “If I don’t wash you, you have no part with
Me.” Simon Peter said to Him, “Lord, not only my feet,
but also my hands and my head.” “One who has
bathed,” Jesus told him, “doesn’t need to wash
anything except his feet, but he is completely clean.
You are clean, but not all of you.”11 For He knew who
would betray Him. This is why He said, “You are not all
clean.” When Jesus had washed their feet and put on
His robe, He reclined again and said to them, “Do you
know what I have done for you? You call Me Teacher
Habits for Health Page 6

know what I have done for you? You call Me Teacher
and Lord. This is well said, for I am. So if I, your Lord
and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to
wash one another’s feet. For I have given you an
example that you also should do just as I have done for
you. “I assure you: A slave is not greater than his
master, and a messenger is not greater than the one
who sent him. If you know these things, you are blessed
if you do them.
We must set ASIDE our PRIDE to follow Christ's
EXAMPLE
John 13:3-4 HSCB
Jesus knew that the Father had given everything into
His hands, that He had come from God, and that He
was going back to God. So He got up from supper, laid
aside His robe, took a towel, and tied it around Himself.
1/2 enemies of service: PRIDE
Habits for Health Page 7

Serving is HUMBLY MEETING a NEED
John 13:5 HCSB
Next, He poured water into a basin and began to wash
His disciples’ feet and to dry them with the towel tied
around Him.
2/2 enemies of service: LAZINESS
We MAY NOT know the RESULT of our SERVICE
John 13:6-9 HCSB
He came to Simon Peter, who asked Him, “Lord, are You
going to wash my feet?” Jesus answered him, “What
I’m doing you don’t understand now, but afterward you
will know.” “You will never wash my feet—ever!” Peter
said. Jesus replied, “If I don’t wash you, you have no
part with Me.” Simon Peter said to Him, “Lord, not only
my feet, but also my hands and my head.”
Habits for Health Page 8

"I planted, Apollos water, but it was GOD that gave the
increase."
1 Corinthians 3:6
To FOLLOW JESUS is to follow HIS EXAMPLE
John 13:12-15 HCSB
When Jesus had washed their feet and put on His robe,
He reclined again and said to them, “Do you know what
I have done for you? You call Me Teacher and Lord. This
is well said, for I am. So if I, your Lord and Teacher, have
washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s
feet. For I have given you an example that you also
should do just as I have done for you.
for today: "If I am your LORD and SAVIOR, you also
should serve others."
Habits for Health Page 9

should serve others."
There is a BLESSING that comes from SERVING
John 13:16-17 HCSB
“I assure you: A slave is not greater than his
master, and a messenger is not greater than the one
who sent him. If you know these things, you are blessed
if you do them.
Blessing does NOT mean monetary or even physical in
nature. A blessing that comes from serving is happiness
in the Lord.
"There is no "unemployment or retirement" in the
Kingdom of God."
Connect Card
Habits for Health Page 10

Connect Card
Giving
Habits for Health Page 11

Habits for Health 3: Worship
Friday, January 15, 2016 3:01 PM
Habit: an acquired behavior, regularly followed,
until it becomes almost involuntary.
We call a habit "bad" when it's effectual
outcome on our daily lives is NEGATIVE
We call a habit "good" when it's effectual
outcome on our daily lives is POSITIVE
What are the habits of your life?
How do those habits affect you spiritually?
Key Thought:
"My habits determine my health."
Habit: an acquired behavior, regularly followed,
until it becomes nearly involuntary.
God's PEOPLE WORSHIP Him
Habits for Health Page 12

God's PEOPLE WORSHIP Him
Cain and Abel brought their gifts to the Lord.
(Gen 4:3-4)
Enosh (Adam's grandson) worshiped the Lord
by name
(Gen 4:26)
Noah took animals on the ark for worship.
(Gen 7:2)
Abraham sacrificed to the Lord.
(Gen 12:8, 13:4, 21:33)
Abraham's servant worshiped the Lord.
(Gen 24:26)
Isaac worshiped the Lord.
(Gen 26:25)
Jacob worshiped the Lord.
(Gen 28:22)
Joseph praised God for His plans.
(Gen 45:8)
Before the Law of Moses,
Before the New Covenant of Christ,
Habits for Health Page 13

Before the New Covenant of Christ,
God's people worshiped Him.
Worship is the single most defining
characteristic in the life of a believer.
God EXPECTS our WORSHIP
Then God gave the people all these
instructions “I am the Lord your God, who
rescued you from the land of Egypt, the place of
your slavery. “You must not have any other god
but me. “You must not make for yourself an idol
of any kind or an image of anything in the
heavens or on the earth or in the sea. You must
not bow down to them or worship them, for I,
the Lord your God, am a jealous God who will
not tolerate your affection for any other gods.
Exodus 20:2-5a NLT
God is a jealous God,
because HE desires our worship.
Habits for Health Page 14

Worship is FOCUSING on GOD
I will praise you, Lord, with all my heart; I will
tell of all the marvelous things you have done. I
will be filled with joy because of you. I will sing
praises to your name, O Most High.
Psalm 9:1-2 NLT
The word worship comes from the saxon word
"Weorthscype" which became "Worth-ship"
and then "Worship"
Worship is not about "making" God worthy,
HE ALREADY IS.
Worship is about focusing on HIS worth
and declaring it openly.
Worship is RESPONDING to GOD
Eight days later the disciples were together
again, and this time Thomas was with them.
The doors were locked; but suddenly, as before,
Jesus was standing among them. “Peace be
Habits for Health Page 15

Jesus was standing among them. “Peace be
with you,” he said. Then he said to
Thomas, “Put your finger here, and look at my
hands. Put your hand into the wound in my
side. Don’t be faithless any longer.
Believe!” “My Lord and my God!” Thomas
exclaimed.
John 20:26-28 NLT
We all have our own personal "Thomas"
moments when we need the Lord to confirm
the desire of our heart. How we respond to the
moving of His presence is worship.
Worship must be SINCERE or it's HYPOCRISY
“Sir,” the woman said, “you must be a
prophet. So tell me, why is it that you Jews insist
that Jerusalem is the only place of worship,
while we Samaritans claim it is here at Mount
Gerizim, where our ancestors worshiped?” Jesus
replied, “Believe me, dear woman, the time is
coming when it will no longer matter whether
you worship the Father on this mountain or
Habits for Health Page 16

you worship the Father on this mountain or
in Jerusalem. You Samaritans know very little
about the one you worship, while we Jews know
all about him, for salvation comes through the
Jews. But the time is coming—indeed it’s here
now—when true worshipers will worship the
Father in spirit and in truth. The Father is
looking for those who will worship him that
way. For God is Spirit, so those who worship
him must worship in spirit and in truth.”
John 4:19-24 NLT
"No matter how spiritual the song you are
singing, no matter how poetic the prayer you
are praying, if it isn't sincere then it isn't
worship, it's hypocrisy." - Donald S Whitney
Habits for Health Page 17

Habits for Health 4: Fasting
Friday, February 5, 2016 9:54 AM
Key Thought:
My Habits determine my health
When you think about fasting what kind of people
do you think of?
Fringe radicals? Zealots? Judgmental? Out of
touch?
Fasting is just as important a habit for health as
Bible study, prayer, worship, stewardship, and
serving.
sadly... it's probably the LEAST PRACTICED!
What is fasting?
A Believer's voluntary abstinence of food for a
spiritual purpose.
Habits for Health Page 18

Does that mean non-Believers can't fast?
yes and no, not eating is NOT the same as fasting...
If fasting is not done for a spiritual purpose,
it can have no spiritual significance.
In the book of Jonah, the pagans living in Ninevah
fasted in response to Jonah's message from the
Lord.
In a larger context,
"Fasting is the denial of the physical, for the
increase of the spiritual."
Most, if not all sin is based in selfishness, this is why
fasting is so important. Fasting begins with the
denial of self to place our spiritual agenda ahead of
our physical one.
Normal fasting means not eating food
Matthew 4:1-2 ESV
Habits for Health Page 19

Matthew 4:1-2 ESV
Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the
wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after
fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry.
Queen Esther fasted food and drink.
Daniel fasted all food except vegetables.
Fasting can be anything that gets in the way of your
closeness with God.
Fasting is expected in the believer's lifestyle
Matthew 6:16-18 NIV
“When you fast, do not look somber as the
hypocrites do, for they disfigure their faces to show
others they are fasting. Truly I tell you, they have
received their reward in full. But when you fast, put
oil on your head and wash your face, so that it will
not be obvious to others that you are fasting, but
only to your Father, who is unseen; and your Father,
who sees what is done in secret, will reward you.
Habits for Health Page 20

Fasting was required under the Old Testament Law
once a year on the day of atonement.
There are other reasons that fasting was done:
Moses fasted because of the people's sin.
Nineveh fasted at the preaching of Jonah.
Israel fasted during or at the threat of war.
David fasted when his son was sick.
David fasted when Saul & Jonathan died.
Mordecai fasted before Esther saw the king.
Fasting is about closeness with Jesus
Matthew 9:14-15 NKJV
Then the disciples of John came to Him, saying,
“Why do we and the Pharisees fast often, but Your
disciples do not fast?” And Jesus said to them, “Can
the friends of the bridegroom mourn as long as the
bridegroom is with them? But the days will come
when the bridegroom will be taken away from
Habits for Health Page 21

when the bridegroom will be taken away from
them, and then they will fast.
"Fasting is the denial of the physical,
for the increase of the spiritual."
I think we would all agree that we want to have
more of Jesus in our lives. We want more
understanding of His plans... more intimacy with His
presence... more examples of His power... but don't
want to deny our own provision or pleasure to get
it.
"The explanation Jesus gives for His disciples not
fasting during his earthly ministry, namely His
proximity and presence, is the very reason we
should fast today."
Fasting is often associated with prayer
Ezra 8:21-23 NLT
And there by the Ahava Canal, I gave orders for all
of us to fast and humble ourselves before our God.
We prayed that he would give us a safe journey and
Habits for Health Page 22

We prayed that he would give us a safe journey and
protect us, our children, and our goods as we
traveled. For I was ashamed to ask the king for
soldiers and horsemen to accompany us and protect
us from enemies along the way. After all, we had
told the king, “Our God’s hand of protection is on all
who worship him, but his fierce anger rages against
those who abandon him.” So we fasted and
earnestly prayed that our God would take care of
us, and he heard our prayer.
"Fasting is the denial of the physical,
for the increase of the spiritual."
I believe these two habits are closely linked because
they are both personal, between the believer and
God alone. This does not preclude, as is the case
here, that fasting can be practiced corporately.
Fasting is about the HEART of FAITH
being shone through the ACTION of SACRIFICE
Scripture warns:
And when you fast, don’t make it obvious, as the
hypocrites do, for they try to look miserable and
Habits for Health Page 23

hypocrites do, for they try to look miserable and
disheveled so people will admire them for their
fasting. I tell you the truth, that is the only reward
they will ever get.
Matthew 6:16 NLT
Fasting brings spiritual breakthrough
Mark 9:17-18,25-29 NCV
A man answered, “Teacher, I brought my son to you.
He has an evil spirit in him that stops him from
talking. When the spirit attacks him, it throws him
on the ground. Then my son foams at the mouth,
grinds his teeth, and becomes very stiff. I asked your
followers to force the evil spirit out, but they
couldn’t.” When Jesus saw that a crowd was quickly
gathering, he ordered the evil spirit, saying, “You
spirit that makes people unable to hear or speak, I
command you to come out of this boy and never
enter him again!” The evil spirit screamed and
caused the boy to fall on the ground again. Then the
spirit came out. The boy looked as if he were dead,
and many people said, “He is dead!” But Jesus took
hold of the boy’s hand and helped him to stand
up. When Jesus went into the house, his followers
Habits for Health Page 24

up. When Jesus went into the house, his followers
began asking him privately, “Why couldn’t we force
that evil spirit out?” Jesus answered, “That kind of
spirit can only be forced out by prayer (and fasting).
The Almighty Lord God is NOT a genie in a bottle.
We don't just stir together the right recipe of
fasting, prayer, and worship and bend His proverbial
arm to do our bidding.
Fasting is a way to be closer to the Lord and seek
His guidance and will. It is a way to get closer to His
heart and seek His face. Fasting should never be
considered a recipe for "making" God do
something.
Scripture warns:
We have fasted before you!’ they say. ‘Why aren’t
you impressed? We have been very hard on
ourselves, and you don’t even notice it!’ “I will tell
you why!” I respond. “It’s because you are fasting to
please yourselves.
Habits for Health Page 25

please yourselves.
Isaiah 58:3 NLT
Connect Card
Worship in Giving
Habits for Health Page 26

Habits for Health 5: The Bible
Saturday, January 2, 2016 10:06 AM
Habit:
an acquired behavior, regularly followed until it becomes
almost involuntary.
We call a habit "bad" when it's effectual outcome on
our daily lives is NEGATIVE
We call a habit "good" when it's effectual outcome on
our daily lives is POSITIVE
Key Thought:
"My habits determine my health."
Habits for Health:
The Bible
Two brother in the woods > tree full of fruit > eat their
fill > one gathers fruit > the other takes the tree > The
second had a never ending supply, the first did not
The Word of God is only as good for you as the amount
and frequency of it that you eat it.
Habits for Health Page 27

and frequency of it that you eat it.
The Bible TEACHES us how to LIVE
All Scripture is inspired by God and is useful for teaching,
for showing people what is wrong in their lives, for
correcting faults, and for teaching how to live right. Using
the Scriptures, the person who serves God will be
capable, having all that is needed to do every good work.
2 Timothy 3:16-17 NCV
The Bible SPEAKS to OUR HEARTS
For the word of God is living and active, sharper than
any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and
of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the
thoughts and intentions of the heart.
Hebrews 4:12 ESV
The Bible is the ONLY BOOK that can GROW your FAITH
So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the
word of God.
Romans 10:17 NKJV
Habits for Health Page 28

Romans 10:17 NKJV
The Bible will ALWAYS be TRUE
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will
never pass away.
Matthew 24:35 NIV
The Bible is the FOCUS of the CHURCH
Teach these things and insist that everyone learn them.
Don’t let anyone think less of you because you are
young. Be an example to all believers in what you say, in
the way you live, in your love, your faith, and your purity.
Until I get there, focus on reading the Scriptures to the
church, encouraging the believers, and teaching them.
1 Timothy 4:11-13 NLT
Tough Questions:
How many times (not in church) have you read the Bible
in the past two weeks?
How many times (not in church) have you studied the
Bible in the past month?
Habits for Health Page 29

How often do you think about the Bible during a regular
day?
How often do you consult the Bible to make a decision
for you or your family?
When the Bible disagrees with our culture, who do
question first?
Habits for Health Page 30

Habits for Health 6: Stewardship
Friday, January 29, 2016 7:49 PM
First things first... Stewardship is more than mere money.
So, let's get the elephant in the room out of the way... today's
message is about an attitude of stewardship, not a bargaining
chip to get you to give more money.
In life there are two major forms of currency:
TIME & MONEY
Generally, you will spend one to use the other.
Spend time > making money
Spend money > having a good time
Spend time > save money
Spend money > save time
Both are temporal:
You can't make more time.
You can't take your money with you when you die.
Habits for Health Page 31

How you USE your TIME and MONEY in this life is
STEWARDSHIP
So be careful how you live. Don’t live like fools, but like those
who are wise.Make the most of every opportunity in these evil
days. Don’t act thoughtlessly, but understand what the Lord
wants you to do. Don’t be drunk with wine, because that will
ruin your life. Instead, be filled with the Holy Spirit singing
psalms and hymns and spiritual songs among yourselves, and
making music to the Lord in your hearts.
Ephesians 5:15:-19 NLT
My LIFESTYLE is a REFLECTION of my FAITH
Ephesians 5:15 NLT
So be careful how you live. Don’t live like fools, but like those
who are wise.
Stewardship requires a CONSCIOUS EFFORT
Ephesians 5:16 NLT
Make the most of every opportunity in these evil days.
I should MEASURE my choices by GOD'S WORD
Habits for Health Page 32

I should MEASURE my choices by GOD'S WORD
Ephesians 5:17 NLT
Don’t act thoughtlessly, but understand what the Lord wants
you to do.
Chasing TEMPORARY PLEASURE will never SATISFY
Ephesians 5:18a NLT
Don’t be drunk with wine, because that will ruin your life.
WORSHIPING God should be my priority
Ephesians 5:18b-19 NLT
Instead, be filled with the Holy Spirit singing psalms and hymns
and spiritual songs among yourselves, and making music to the
Lord in your hearts.
How you USE your TIME and MONEY in this life is
STEWARDSHIP
What does your life over the past two weeks say about your
Habits for Health Page 33

What does your life over the past two weeks say about your
faith?
How much time have you given to the Lord ie, church, Bible
study, personal prayer, reading His Word?
How much money have you given to the Lord ie, tithes and
offerings was it faithful or random?
Habits for Health Page 34