There we go. Oh yeah, it works too. That's amazing when you turn things on and they actually work. Awesome. Well good morning and welcome to Catalyst again. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being a part of our service today. Those who are joining us online, thank you for being a part of the Catalyst community. Here at Catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change. So if you are here and you're joining us and worshiping with us on campus, we love you. If you're joining us online, even if you are watching this service after it physically happens, we love you. But we don't want to leave you where we meet you. We want to see your life changed through a relationship with Jesus. And one of the ways that we do that is by studying His Word together. That feels a little far over. Come here. That feels better, doesn't it? So we're going to be continuing my teaching series entitled Habits for Health. Habits for Health. And the whole reason for the fun little costume is to remind you that when you go to the doctor, they take all those different measurements, right? Your height, your weight, your gender, your blood pressure, your cholesterol, this, that. They take all those numbers and together they make a portrait of your health. Well in the same way, the habits that you practice in your spiritual life show your health. Now this morning we're going to talk about everybody's super favorite habit, okay? So let's get that out of the way early. Habits for health, the habit of fasting. I'll tell you I've been in ministry in America for 20 years. This is one of the least talked about but most important habits for spiritual health in the life of a church. So first let me give you the definition of what a habit is so we can review. A habit is an acquired behavior regularly followed until it becomes almost involuntary. Now I want to point out a couple of words today that are really important. The first is right here, acquired behavior. Just because you're not doing it now doesn't mean you can't acquire that behavior. Just in the same way as we would say healthy Christians pray, healthy Christians read their Bibles, healthy Christians worship God, healthy Christians have fasting as a part of their spiritual regiment. Now that doesn't get talked about a lot so let's talk about what's the difference between good habits and bad habits, right? So we call it a bad habit when its effectual outcome on our daily lives is negative. When you look at your life and the habits you have and the ways that you practice and the things you live and if that habit has a negative impact on your life then it's a bad habit. But the reverse is also true. We call it a good habit when its effectual outcome on our daily lives is positive. And that's the kind of habits I want to talk to you about today. I want to talk to you about spiritual habits, acquired behaviors regularly followed until it becomes involuntary, spiritual habits that will benefit your spiritual health. So let's look at our key thought. This is the key thought for each of these messages. Say this with me. Ready? My habits determine my health. Just in case. My habits determine my health. We've looked at the habit of prayer. We've looked at the habit of worship. These are habits that I think most of us as American Christians absolutely understand. Yeah that's totally part of my healthy relationship with God. So is this one. So is fasting. But unfortunately fasting doesn't get talked about a lot. So what I want to do is try to give you a broad biblical explanation of what fasting is. Also show you some examples in Scripture of how fasting is used so that you can create a fasting regiment for yourself. In the same way is... So Jim you wouldn't expect me to stand up here and dictate to you how to pray, right? That's between your relationship with God. It's not my job to write a script for you that says if thou to be holy, pray according to Pastor Bill's five steps for prayer. You know, no. We talk about prayer being important and then you have to take the responsibility to make it work in your life. Fasting is going to be largely the same way. This is something between you and God but I want to try to give you the guidelines that you can develop. So here's the first point. Normal fasting means not eating food. Normal fasting means not eating food. I think this is kind of obvious but let's go ahead and look. Let's turn to the Gospel of Matthew chapter 4. This is verses 1 & 2. This is the English Standard version. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil and after fasting for 40 days and 40 nights he were hungry. I don't know about you but if I did not eat anything for 40 days and 40 nights I would be pretty famished. But what I want you to see here is the automatic assumption that Matthew assumes his readers understand. Now, who was Matthew? He was a disciple. What was Matthew's job before he became a Christ follower? He was a tax collector. What was his ethnicity? He was a Jew. So that means Matthew understands everything that comes out of the Old Testament. There were regular calendar days of fasting for Jewish audience. So Matthew assumes his audience understands something and that is if Jesus fasted for 40 days he was hungry. Why? Because Matthew's reader understand that fasting means not eating food. Now, we will get into some other types of fasting in the Bible. It's not solely food but here's the thing. Normal fasting means not eating food for a specific amount of time. So it's intentionally not consuming food. Now, there are some choices, right? There's some choices here. Some people will fast all food and water. If you've never fasted before please do me one big favor as Dr. Bill. Don't do that, okay? Don't start by not consuming anything. And when we get to the end we'll talk about ways to design a fast. But what I want you to see here is this is Jesus right after his baptism. He goes into the wilderness. He fasts for 40 days and then if we kept on reading this is where Jesus's temptation in the wilderness happens. When he is physically weak but still spiritually strong. So fasting requires or suggests the not eating of food. We'll get into especially I know some of you already thinking, well Bill I have a certain medical need. That's fine. I will address that at the end. There are more ways to fast than just going cold turkey and not consuming calories at all. Let my children have medicine they have to take that has to be taken with food. I'm with you. But I want to show a biblical base first and then we'll move beyond that. So is everybody with me so far? Fasting means no eating the foodie, right? That's a theological term. No eating the foodie. Alright, let's move to the second thing I need you to understand. Fasting is expected. We say that again because it's a super unpopular sentence. Fasting is expected in the believers lifestyle. Just like prayer, just like reading your Bible, just like worshiping God, fasting is expected. Let's jump over in Matthew to chapter 6. So what I want to understand is Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7. That is Jesus's sermon on the Mount, right? Super popular sermon that Jesus teaches in the Galilean wilderness. Jesus himself, this is Matthew chapter 6, 16 to 18 in the NIV. My three favorite words, say this with me. When you fast. When you fast. Everybody remember the sermon on prayer? What did Jesus say? When you pray. There is an expectation on the part of the Savior that prayer would be a natural part of the Christian life. Here in the same sermon, same chapter of scripture, when you fast. I just want to hang on these first three words really quick. It is the expectation of God that fasting is a part of your natural spiritual life. If you've never heard that before, this is Jesus talking. I'm just elaborating. This is the Savior, the Son of God, Creator of the world. He's saying, when you fast. Now keep in mind, Matthew is written to a Jewish audience, so they had normal times of fasting in their religious calendar. So now Jesus, assuming his audience is going to fast, and now he's going to give instructions about that fasting. Watch this. When you fast. Do not, and I'm going to take some water because my throat hurts. When you fast. Do not look somber as the hypocrites do. For they disfigure their faces to show others they are fasting. Truly I tell you, they have received their reward in full. But again, when you fast, put oil on your head and wash your face. The rest of us will thank you. So that it will not be obvious to others that you are fasting, but only to your Father who is unseen. And your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. Don't you hear how similar this sounds to when you pray? Don't pray on the street corners to be seen by men. It's the same principle. He's saying, when you fast, don't look somber as, don't look somber as, I'm missing a space there, I apologize. It does not mean wear a large hat when you fast, I promise. I'm sure somebody thought it, so I might as well just get it out of the way. Okay, a couple guilty, thank you. Thank you. Do not look somber as like the hypocrites do for they disfigure their faces. Jesus is saying this, this should be a normal everyday part. Sam, you can't look at me, you're really cracking me up. Sorry, that was just really funny. And it wasn't that way when I practiced it, so catches you off guard sometimes. Jesus is saying that fasting is important enough, but don't do it so other people can see it. Just like prayer is important enough, don't do it so other people can see it. I'm gonna use the same exact example. Ladies, if the only time you heard your husband tell you, I love you, is when he was in front of other people. Is he saying, I love you because he loves you, or is he saying, I love you because he wants the other people to see how much he loves you. It's the same principle. When we choose to fast in our relationship, don't make it a big deal. And in this culture, he's saying, don't disfigure, oh I'm so holy, I'm fasting for so long, God. You know all that's about? All that's about is showing that you're more righteous than all your other human beings. You're not. Like you're not. None of us, me included, none of us as human beings are more inherently righteous than any other human being. The whole reason of Christianity is Jesus imparts his righteousness to us. It's only because of Jesus' blood that God sees me as righteous. If there was no Jesus, I'm dead in sin just like everybody else. So why do we get this idea, this Instagram mentality, this quality by comparison? You know I was having a conversation with one of my children and it's one of my daughters and she's already beginning to decide how beautiful or how worthy she is based on what she sees on social media. That's quality by comparison. You know why that always fails? Because there's always somebody taller, there's always somebody blonder, there's always somebody whose makeup is done better than you. Like there's always something stronger, there's always someone smarter, there's always someone that makes more money, there's always somebody whose house is bigger. Why? Because we're all just flawed humans. We're not supposed to have a ranking system. We're not supposed to decide that such and such is better than me because they're out there publicly bragging about how much they're fasting. And keep in mind this is first century Jewish culture. The Pharisees were the guilty lot of the bunch. The Pharisees were out there because he even said don't pray on the street corners like the Pharisees do with their many words that people will think they are more righteous. Don't fast so other people will think you're holier than they are because you're just not. That doesn't mean that fasting is not supposed to be a part of our normal life but we're not supposed to make it a thing. So obviously you get as a pastor I have lots of friends who are also pastors and so there's like an unsaid rule and I don't know where the rule came from. I just kind of at least I just learned it. But when you go out to when like we would go out to breakfast in Virginia and have I'd have breakfast with the pastors in my community every single month. There was almost always somebody at the table who only ordered coffee and didn't order breakfast. Nobody made a thing of it. We all just went okay If I don't ask you then you don't have to say it out loud. We can both obey the scriptures. It's totally cool. I love you. You talk while I eat and it'll be good. And so you don't have to make it a thing. I'm thinking specifically of my good friend Ken. His church fasts on a regular basis. When we go out to eat, we got for food. He would regularly only order a drink and I knew enough to just not have to ask. You know if that person I'm just not hungry today. I'm just not eating today. Like you don't have to go I am. I am fasting for the holy power of God. You know this is something I do in my personal relationship with God. Do I have to tell you every time I go about buy flowers for my wife? No. Why? Because I love you Bob. You're not my wife. You're not a part of that relationship so you don't need all the information. It's the same thing here. Jesus expects that fasting is to be a normal part of our life and warns us that we are not supposed to make it a normal part of our bragging or our ranking with one another. Does that make sense? If you do this, if you fast and then you brag to all of your church friends about how much you fast, the same thing happens. You don't get any reward for your sacrifice. Why? Because what you really wanted was the respect of humans not the answer from God. So if you're gonna fast, you don't got to make it a thing. You don't got to brag about it. Now, I'm sure some of you are thinking, what does that mean we shouldn't talk about it at home? No. I will tell you in my family, we talk openly about it inside our own home. I want to teach my children that this is a normal thing. Just like do you talk openly about prayer at home? Hopefully. Don't answer that by the way. That was a rhetorical pastor size question. Do you talk about worship at home? Do you ever talk about the scriptures at home? Why is that okay? Because at home, you're training your family unit to be godly together. That's not the same as coming to church and be like, oh my gosh. Oh, I've been fasting for God's breakthrough. It's like it's just two more days man. Two more days and I can eat that pizza again. Wait, when was the remix party? Okay, one more day and I can eat pizza again. Right? You're not supposed to make... It's not a part of this horizontal relationship. Just like prayer is not really a part of our horizontal relationship. Fasting is a part of our vertical relationship to God. So, now we know what it is. Now we've got a warning. Take a look at this next piece. Fasting is about closeness with Jesus. It's probably one of the biggest questions that I get. Why do I bother doing that? And I probably could just go to Matthew 6 where Jesus said, when you fast and that's why. Because Jesus said we should do it and I happen to think that's a pretty quality answer. When Jesus says do something, my normal answer is not why. My normal answer is yes sir, I'll get to work on that. Doesn't mean I get it right all the time, but watch this. Fasting is about closeness with Jesus. Let's go to Matthew chapter 9. Matthew chapter 9, 14 to 15. This is the New King James Version. Watch. Then the disciples of John, this is John the Baptist. So, this is during the earthly ministry of Jesus. This is the disciples of John the Baptist. Not the Apostle John because the Apostle John is already a disciple of Jesus. So, then the disciples of John came to him saying, why do we in the Pharisees fast often, but your disciples do not fast? And Jesus said to them, can the friends of the bridegroom mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them and then they will fast. So, this is Jesus speaking. Who's the bridegroom? And Jesus' theology? It's him. Why? Because who's the bride? The church. So, the church is the bride. The bridegroom or in our culture just the word groom, that's where we get the word groom from, is Jesus. So, let's read. Let me just swap in a couple words here and let's reread it. So, the disciples of John come to Jesus and they ask, why do the Pharisees fast often, but are we and the Pharisees fast often, but your disciples do not fast? First off, I think it's super cool that the disciples of John the Baptist came to Jesus to ask the question. They didn't go to anybody else. They went right to the source to get the quality answer. How come the Pharisees fast? How come the disciples of John the Baptist fast, but your disciples don't fast? What's up with that? And Jesus' answer, can my friends, right? I'm just gonna swap in my for friends of the bridegroom, can my friends mourn as long as I am with them, but the days will come when I will be taken away from them, then they will fast. What is Jesus saying? He's saying that there was no reason for them to fast in order to gain closeness with Him because He was still in the room. Here's the, you know, the $13 theological term, he would dur. Why did the disciples not need to fast? Because He was dur. When Jesus is no longer dur, then they would fast for closeness with Him. So Jesus gives us the number one reason why in a Christian context, right? Keep in mind this from the Gospel of Matthew, so this is written largely to a Jewish audience. He's saying there's a difference. See, the reason my disciples didn't have to fast while I was on earth is I was still here. When you come home to your spouse every day, you don't need to write long-distance love letters. Why? Because you're there. It would be weird if you did. Now I can't talk to you because I'm writing you this letter. Let me say that again because I don't think you saw. Let me not, I'm not gonna talk to you because I'm writing this letter. I'm gonna choose a written form of communication when I could have a personal one. I could have face to face right here, me and you, and just tell you how much I love you. Jesus makes it clear that the reason you and I, now that we live in the church age 2,000 years after the resurrection and the ascension and now that we have the written Word of God, we still have the written letter of God's love. This does not replace an active relationship with Jesus. You cannot take a Bible, put it home on your mantle and never open it and still have an active relationship with Jesus. That's not how it works. We do. We're gonna talk about studying the Bible next week. But fasting is a way of putting one thing on hold for another. So let me show you this. Fasting is the denial of the physical for the increase of the spiritual. Now we need to get into a little bit of systematic theology really quick so I can explain this. So let's rewind all the way back to the book of Genesis. In the very beginning God created the heavens and the earth, right? We get through creation week and at the very end of creation week, God makes a singular special creation. Adam, the first man and Eve, the first woman. But I want to talk about how God made Adam at the very beginning of the Bible. So if any of you know the story, God reached down into the earth. He took earth, let's just call it clay. Now my Emily is an amazing artist. I am NOT. So my clay would have looking like Gumby if someone had stepped on him. But God forms the dust of the ground into the shape of Adam and then he does something spectacular. He breathes life into the clay and Adam was created. Now this is different from the rest of creation. And God said, let there be light. And God said, let the water separate from the waters. And God said, let dry ground appear. Let grass grow. Let animals team forth. But when God made man, he didn't just said. He formed and he breathed. Now the reason that this is important is because humanity is different from the creation in which we live. Humanity is a two-part being. Every one of you and me. We are a two-part creation. We have the same original design from the original proto-human being, Adam. We are part physical dust of the ground and we are part spiritual. The ruach or the breath of God. So here's the thing. Right now you are part physical and part spiritual. Why is that super important? Well because when you talk about, like if you're trying to explain to a child that when your earthly body dies, your soul goes to heaven. If you don't have a solid foundation on how humanity was created, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense how I can die and be somewhere else at the same time. Right? When you understand that all of humanity are two-part beings. The physical part of me, the part that came from the dust of the ground, will return to the dust of the ground. But that spiritual part of me that came only from God will automatically return to God. So I as a human have a two-part structure. You as a human have a two-part structure. Why is that important? Because fasting brings this into play like no other spiritual discipline. Why? Because fasting intentionally denies the physical part of my human construction in order to bring increase to the spiritual part of my human construction. This discipline more than any other will radically transform your spiritual life. And in my opinion, that is exactly why the enemy does not want you to practice it. You don't have to raise your hand but how many of you when you saw it's gonna start talking about fasting today were like, um, pastor I already have lunch plans. Like I got reservations. I got a wedding next week. I need to eat some cake. So for real like fasting is gonna have to wait. No, but just think about it. How quickly our spirit, our physical natures want to rebel against our spiritual nature. And I haven't even gotten into like the Genesis 3 and the fall and how the fall has impacted my physical nature but not my spiritual nature. Because my soul is still owned by God. So this purpose right here is what It brings closeness to Jesus on the spiritual side of your life. Now here's what's challenging. As Americans, we largely are very blessed people. I mean I grew up, I never really wanted. Now I wanted stuff but I was never truly destitute for stuff. I was very blessed. Not everyone in our country has that same upbringing. But we don't experience famine the way the ancient Israelites did, right? The biggest famine that I remember in my adult life, this was just 2004. I've lived in Central Florida at the time. The 2004 hurricane season was horrible for the Orlando area. We got hit by Hurricane Charlie which was a category 3 when it rolled through my town. Then right after Charlie was a hurricane, Jean, she literally came up the East Coast went, no I'm going to go back out to sea. Flipped 270 degrees and smashed right into our hometown before we could rebuild after Charlie. Jean came on shore as a category 2. Radish, Jean was done. Francis came on shore as a category 2. Slowest mess and dumped 8 inches of water in 3 days. It was pandemonium. No power for 3 and a half weeks. Now granted in Florida, everybody has a propane grill. I know when I moved to Virginia, all of my southern friends made fun of me because I grill on propane instead of charcoal. Sorry. I lived in Florida for too many years when the power goes out and the propane grill and the side burner are all you have to cook with. So I always had the grill and I always had a backup tank. We made spaghetti, we made mac and cheese. I like we can make we baked bread. You can do all kinds of stuff on a grill when it's the only thing you have to cook with. That's the only famine I've ever experienced. We were without power so we had to eat through all the frozen stuff. Thankfully, FEMA brought in trailers and and and big refrigerator trucks and that we could still food stores had electricity. But it wasn't like there's legit no food. That I mean there's just nothing. It wasn't the way the Great Depression was in our country. I've never experienced that level of physical want and need. For the most part, I've always been able to drive through Taco Bell if I have that 11 o'clock at night fourth meal crave. So I've always been... Some of y'all are laughing because you know exactly what that fourth meal feels like, right? I've never been want for food. That's why I have the amazingly curvaceous shape that I have, right? I think it's pretty obvious, right? Big boy knows how to eat. So that also means as funny as that is, I've never outside of my own choosing had to force my physical nature to take a backseat to my spiritual one. Because I don't live in a I don't live in a lifestyle where going hungry is a thing often. So when I need to fast, it is intentionally to tell my physical nature to be obedient to my spiritual nature. This is something you have to intentionally choose and I will be honest with you. If you have never practiced fasting before, I'm going to make you two promises. One's good and one's mildly not good. So the good one is this. Fasting can bring spiritual increase that no other spiritual discipline can bring. Fasting is also going to find its resistance in your life wherever it can. Because keep in mind, if we understand that we live in a world created by an amazing God and there's also such a thing as an enemy, there is a devil, there are demons, these things are real, they're theologically accurate and there's an enemy that doesn't want you to find spiritual breakthrough in your life. Just be like legit real. Let's just put the pastor hat off and just talk about the Bible. There is a very real enemy who does not want you to grow spiritually. There's a very real church and a Savior who does. So all of us live in this spiritual battle between a God who wants to be close to us and an enemy who does not want to let us get there. Fasting more than anything can get you to a place of spiritual breakthrough but it comes at the cost of you have to be willing to tell that reach inside of yourself and find the part of your faith that says no, I will obey. You have to make your physical self obey your spiritual self. And if you've never tried that, I'll just admit it's somewhat challenging. So here's the next thing I want to tell you. Fasting is often associated with prayer. So fasting by itself is a regular discipline but I want you to see how it's often associated with prayer. This is from the book of Ezra. So now we're back in the Old Testament just after the exilic period. Ezra and the Amiah, they've led God's people back into the promised land. They're rebuilding and this is from the book of Ezra. And there by the Ahavah canal I gave orders for all of us to fast and humble ourselves before God. We prayed that he would give us a safe journey and protect us and our children and our goods as we traveled. For I was ashamed to ask the king for soldiers and horsemen to accompany us and protect us from our enemies along the way. After all we told the king our God's hand of protection is on those who worship him but his fierce anger rages against those who abandon him. So we fasted and earnestly prayed that our God would take care of us and he heard our prayer. So this is Ezra who's currently at the beginning of the verse he's over in prison in a foreign land right so Assyria conquers then Babylon the Assyria gets conquered by Babylon then you got the whole Daniel, Lion's Den and Esther. That all takes place during the Babylon period and then all of a sudden King Darius the great who's the head of Babylon he's like yeah Jews you guys can totally go home now you don't have to stay here like Assyria dragged all the Jews out of the promised land because God allowed them and Darius the first goes yeah dudes you can totally go home you don't have to stay here and then you see Nehemiah go back and the book of Nehemiah is about the rebuilding of the walls. You see Ezra come back Ezra was a priest. Ezra is about the rebuilding and reinstitution of the temple. So Ezra says yes I need to travel from Babylon back to my hometown of Jerusalem but I just finished telling King Darius how amazing my God is and how much he protects us so it's gonna sound kind of ratchet if I'm going I totally trust in God to protect me but would you mind loaning me a squadron worth of soldiers like it wouldn't hurt so as it goes for my testimony of my God I need to not ask for any soldiers to get me back home so what am I gonna do instead I'm gonna fast and I'm gonna pray that God meets my needs so I would say more than any other two disciplines fasting and prayer go hand in hand now just once you ask yourself how many times or how comfortable you are with prayer on a scale of one to ten just put yourself a number in your mind right might be five might be eight might be ten might be twelve I don't know and now how comfortable you are with fasting where are those numbers at right just for you in your mind nobody's judging you where are those numbers at because fast you should be as comfortable with fasting as you should be with prayer because here just in this one example and I could go I mean I could find you example after example I just chose the Ezra one because he's my boy and I like him because he rebuilt the temple after God's people got to come home and I think Ezra's super cool story fasting has a way of forcing the physical to get out of the way to listen to the spiritual a little bit more and I'm not trying to tell you that you're schizophrenic right I'm not trying to tell you you have a mental disorder I am trying to tell you though that there is a part of you that yearns for a deepness and a closeness with your Creator and with your Savior anybody ever felt that part sometimes you feel it in prayer sometimes you feel it in worship some like for me sometimes I feel it when I'm reading a new book about God I'm learning about him because my primary method of stoking the fires of my faith is up here in my brain whereas that's not my wife my wife is in her heart in worship and in prayer someone like Buzzy he's his faith is ignited when he's around other believers you know in community it's okay to admit that we're all not cut from the same cookie cloth but we have a discipline and there's a part inside of you that eternal ruach part when God breathed it into Adam he gave all humanity a spiritual nature that doesn't have to obey your physical nature but you've got to find that still small voice on the inside and give it strength and give it focus and fasting in conjunction with prayer see fasting tells your physical body okay bro it's time for you to shut up we're gonna let the little guy have a little bit of face time now right that's what fasting does and ultimately in the story of Ezra fasting also brought an amazing amount of protection which brings me to my next point fasting is often brings spiritual breakthrough spiritual breakthrough and I don't want to get all esoteric with this but if we can just admit that we live in a world of spiritual battle and so that means sometimes I need a spiritual victory I got think it's okay to say I'm not getting way out on the kooky edge of things I'm just saying if I recognize I live in a spiritual battle I don't know about you but I hate to lose right I don't like to lose at anything ever it makes me mild mildly competitive I get that those the men who were at the axe throwing I Dan I don't like to lose I do lose it is a natural phrase of life that I will eventually lose but I don't like it I mean who go honestly just a small sidebar who goes into a game going man I cannot wait to figure out how I'm gonna lose this game no we like to win so why not bring that attitude to your spiritual life right when you see that you're facing a spiritual battle and I'm not going to enumerate what the area is because that's your life not mine but I'll tell you a lot of times my spiritual battles are on trusting in the midst of a storm this is me not not talking about anybody else being as a personal human being I have the strongest battles trusting when the storm is raging all around me I can feel that spiritual category 5 hurricane cows are just floating by spiritually just like twister and I got to be able to stand still and quiet and say Lord no matter how loud the wind gets you're still the god of the storm that's where a lot of my spiritual battles come in it's trusting in the midst of trial I got to remember that it's my physical nature that's afraid it's this part it's this part of me that's afraid the spiritual part of me is eternal it's going to live with God honestly the spiritual part of me could probably care less because I know that God's in control it's the physical part of me that gets way distracted you know the ADHD squall and I watched the cow float away into the storm and before I'm worried I'm worried about the lightning I'm worried about the thunder I'm worried about the wind I'm worried about the water coming up over my feet and ankles instead of God why is this storm happening you know these things just take a pause a why is the storm happening be Lord what are you going to teach me or perfect in me while I stand in the storm and Lord I'm not moving sometimes the biggest thing you can do spiritually is plant your feet and don't run away don't give up when you are faced with a spiritual batter that is a battle that is greater than you think back to greater is he that is in me that is in the world that's fun to quote on Sunday it's hard to live on a Thursday when you're standing there and it's just Goliath of a storm is whirling all around you to say no I might not see the Sun behind the clouds I don't need to see it to know my God is there you know I mean so fasting brings spiritual breakthrough let's go one more time to the gospel of Mark now this is going to be a big passage but I just want to show you this is Mark chapter 9 we're going to go 17 18 and then we're going to jump down to 25 29 so you can see the whole story a man answered teacher I brought my son to you he has an evil spirit with him that stops him from talking when the spirit attacks him it throws him on the ground then my son foams at the mouth and grinds his teeth and becomes very stiff I asked your followers to force the evil spirit out but they couldn't when Jesus saw that a crowd was quickly gathering he ordered the evil spirit saying you spirit that makes people unable to hear or speak I command you to come out of this boy and never enter him again the evil spirit screamed and caused the boy to fall on the ground again then the spirit came out the boy looked as if he were dead and many people said he is dead but Jesus took a hold of the boy's hand and helped him to stand up when Jesus went into the house his followers began asking him privately why couldn't we force the evil spirit out Jesus answered that kind of spirit can only be forced out by prayer and fasting so what we have in this example is a major spiritual struggle now let's get the first thing out of the way does that mean that all psychological disorders are just are demonic no it does not please do not read that all medical health issues are demonic in origin that would be a misreading of the text however please don't overthink that some things that that appear to be one thing may not actually be caused by a spiritual cause so I have children many of you know my family I have a special needs family I will be the first to admit that disorders and and diagnoses are very real things and I will be the first to admit just because one of my children has a disorder or diagnosis does not make him immune to the demonic so you got to have a discerning heart that can see that difference and know when is one and when is the other but in this story a boy so what's the other cool thing is Jesus's disciples have already tried to minister to this child they have already tried to release this boy from the demonic oppression that his life was experiencing and they were unable to do so of course when they bring him to the Son of God no demonic power is stronger than the Word of God or the Son of God so of course Jesus cleans up in in total Jesus fashion then notice they said they go inside the house so the ministry moment is over the boy is freed from the demonic oppression then they go inside and here the teaching moment happens right so there's the ministry and then the teaching the disciples say well Jesus how come we couldn't do that if you go further earlier on in the Gospels Jesus sent his disciples out to heal and cast out demons this was not something uncommon to them this was something they knew how to do and they were good at it in Jesus name so what happened when they came across one they couldn't deal with now it's time for the 2.0 ministry lesson Jesus answered that kind of spirit can only be forced out by prayer and fasting there is something and I'll be honest I'm a human being so I'm only talking out of that which I've been able to learn because I'm not God and I don't get to dictate what I can tell you surely than everything else you are a two-part human being and when you allow the spiritual part of yourself to overtake the physical part of yourself you are better positioned to win that spiritual battle you're fighting because here's a simple answer you cannot win a spiritual battle fighting with physical weapons may say that again you cannot win a spiritual battle fighting with physical weapons you have to bring spiritual weapons to a spiritual fight you have to pump the spiritual iron so to speak preparing yourself physically does nothing when the enemy is attacking you spiritually no amount and this is a mistake I see often made in deliverance ministry and ministry that focuses specifically on casting out of demons they think it has something to do with your physical strength or the volume of your voice and I'm like there's nowhere in scripture it says that nowhere in scripture says that if I yell at a demon it's going to be scared of me nowhere in scripture does it say if I have some giant muscular frame like Robbie that I'm going to be more successful at casting out demons than I am somebody like me who's more portly that's not in the Bible you know it's just not why because this kind of ministry requires spiritual and discernment and strength not physical power or volume so when we talk about fasting we're talking about not something that's just I mean in one sense I am talking about something it's for you it is for your individual relationship with Jesus but it ripples effects into a greater spiritual life think about this do you think our church as a whole right us as a total group of people do you think there are spiritual battles that we as a church and as a whole unit face I would say yes I think every day the enemy does not want the church of Jesus Christ to succeed and every day we come here to make sure we can move the line one more step forward so then why not as a church would it not be appropriate for myself and the elders to call our entire church to fast in order to break through a barrier in order to break through something that is stopping our church from getting to where God is leading us yeah I think that is totally appropriate I think it is absolutely biblical for the elders of a church to say church we are facing a struggle that is greater than our own shoulders we're facing something that Paul and I can't just run and pray over and make fix we need a spiritual breakthrough that comes from God so as a church we are going to work together I want to show you one more passage from the book of Isaiah just so I can make a point this is the people in Isaiah's day speaking to God they say we have fasted before you they say why aren't you impressed they're talking to God we have been very hard on ourselves why don't you even notice I will tell you why I responded this is Isaiah speaking it's because you are fasting to please yourselves be warned don't fast for you because you're not the focus think back to the bridegroom passage with Jesus fasting is supposed to put Jesus in the focus post with God in the focus not me this is not fat okay so this is not fasting to lose weight this is not fasting to fit into your summer swimsuit it's not fasting to make the scale look better why because those are all things that are in the physical this is fat that that's fasting to please yourselves right if you're fasting to go down in a dress size that's called dieting not fasting right if you're fasting so you can get one more notch on the belt and your pants that's dieting not fasting so you can go ahead and put the connect card slide up but don't go there yet because I want to give you a simple one two three recipe for fasting so we've talked about the fact that fasting is the denial of food and that is absolutely the single most primary aspect of fasting so this is not on the screen because I forgot to type it so just just just listen to me and write these down number one the first thing you want to do in fasting is you're going to choose a length of time almost all biblical fasts were designed for a length of time when Esther was fasting because they wanted to kill all the Jews she said fast with me for three days when Daniel was fasting when he first got brought into Babylon he said test us for two weeks so the first thing you do when you want to implement fasting in your life is you choose a length of time maybe it's a single meal maybe it's a single day maybe it's a few days I will I will warn you if you have never developed the habit of fasting you need to start small start with one day or maybe two or three days max and then give yourself some time to adjust and adapt to it so first thing is choose your length of time second choose your style and I'm going to give you a few different styles of fasting so the second is choose your style so the number one hardcore is fast is water only and it's literally exactly what that means it means you consume no other food or drink other than unflavored liquid water that one is intense it'll kick your butt now let's start backing up so my son takes certain medications that requires him to have certain calories in his body so a water only fast would be medically unadvisable so we need to be wise so up from water only you could do liquid only that means water you could include a V8 vegetable juices fruit juices you can enjoy anything that's in liquid form some people would say that you could smoothie so if you wanted to make a smoothie to make sure you had certain elements that needed to be in your body that's a liquid only fast then you can do a category only fast so this is like the Daniel fast from the book of Daniel so Daniel gets taken into Babylon and they're feeding him all of like the choice food from King Darius's table and most of it is unclean food so Daniel says to the guy who's in charge of all the servants he's like we're not really supposed to eat all that like super fatty pork stuff so how about you just let us eat vegetables and water and you look at our health in comparison to their health in two weeks and the cap the guard who was in charge of their little school of Babylonian politics said okay I'll let you do that so that's called a Daniel fast so that's eating a Daniel fast is generally defined as not eating meats or sweets the choice foods the fun stuff the fatty the sweet the cheesecakes the steak chimichurri yes right flank steak with chimichurri followed up by chocolate covered cheesecake all those choice delicate delicacy kinds of foods so you could just abstain from those or you could create your own category the intention is to purposely deny your physical body and I will add to that without putting yourself in medical danger so let's just follow the simple 11th commandment don't be stupid right if you have a medical condition that requires certain things don't be stupid let's talk let's find a way to create a fast fasting can also include the not using of any cosmetic products so ladies makeup during the Daniel fast and I want to say it's Daniel 6 Daniel 7 they also stopped using all lotions all makeups all hair oils because that's something that feeds your physical self right so not only and some of our like I paint the barn before I go out the house like I get it right so the Daniel fast excluded meats and treats it also excluded makeup lotion hair oil those kinds of things the Esther fast if you go to the book of Esther that was water only for three days the entire nation because they were trying to kill them then for married couples yep I'm about to say that for married couples if you fast forward to the book of Corinthians Paul specifically says that you can fast marital intimacy but only for a defined period of time so that again is the denial of the physical for the accentuating of the spiritual if you're sitting next to your spouse now is a great time to elbow them okay exactly because I can already see some of y'all are laughing why did I give you all these descriptions because fasting is your discipline to apply in your life the right way so you choose your length of time then you choose your style and my third key is you choose what are you fasting for think about the Ezra passage when we looked at that he was fasting for God's protection think about the Esther story she was fasting for God to save the people from genocide Jesus also said in the New Testament my people don't fast yet because I'm still here I don't need closeness they don't need closeness with me because I'd be here so you choose your length of time you choose what style of fast you will do and then you choose what you are trying to focus on oh good I did put it in there thank you choose your length of time choose your style or did you just type that did you seriously just type that dude you were so amazing round of applause for Paul because I'm sitting here going a dude I hope I get all this right right off the top my head because I forgot it in my notes this is how to practice fasting now the final thing is this fasting can be done cooperatively we can choose to fast together maybe it's just you and your spouse honey we got this thing coming up I really think we need God to speak to us let's fast about it I'm fairly certain when we were asking God if we want it if he wanted us to adopt Zola Mallian I fasted about it first just to make sure we were hearing correctly when I came up here for the job interview I fasted to make sure I could hear from God correctly because I needed to know that I'm not just following my own earthly desire I'm following his leading so fasting can be done cooperatively as a group if it's something that the group is facing just like the Esther story Naaman wanted to kill all the Jews in Babylon so at that point that's a collective effort so that's your your one two three of how to do fasting you choose your length you choose your style this sounds an awful lot like an Asian buffet doesn't it right choose your length you choose your style and then choose what you're gonna fast for this is how to practice the discipline of fasting so now do me a favor pull out your phones or the connect card right in front here's what I'm gonna ask I'm gonna challenge everyone to fast this week not the whole week please understand I am going to challenge you to fast for something that you need a spiritual breakthrough something in your life that you need God to step in and either have a protection a provision to an understanding a relationship I don't know what it is but for those of you are here in the room you can either scan the QR code on the handout that our ushers gave you when you came in you can also scan the code right here on the screen if you are joining us online you are not off the hook I expect to hear from you you can go to catalyst 302 comm slash connect click the button that says I attended online it'll take you right to the online connect card I want everybody here's your neck I'm gonna give it to you this week your next step is to check the box live by the spirit and say and then give me your description what are you gonna fast what is your length what is your style and what are you fasting for this is everybody's spiritual homework because for many of us we don't practice this on the regular right I think as a church we should be fasting at least once a month together collectively and I'll talk with the elders about how we should implement that in a way that works but even then each person still collectively choosing your length your style your purpose so as you pull out your connect card I want you to commit to fasting this week maybe you're just gonna choose one meal maybe you're gonna choose a day also here's pro tip if you want to do a 24-hour fast or a multi-day fast you commonly think oh I should I should just fast when I wake up don't do that and I'll tell you why it is way easier to eat breakfast eat lunch fast dinner go to sleep fast breakfast fast lunch eat dinner I will tell you honestly and totally surely you can fast longer if you offset the beginning of it then if you try to fast breakfast lunch dinner and then sleep why because your hungriest is while you're resting and that's always harder so if you want to do a 24-hour fast this week I highly recommend you start with your evening meal then sleep through it and then you're you're still allowing your body to fully rest right because anybody most people can skip one meal and not affect your sleep pattern then you skip breakfast and lunch and so what I would do is I just pick a time if I was gonna do a 24-hour fast I usually pick 4 p.m. as my go-no-go line I still can have breakfast I still can have lunch I can have a snack right there at 345 and then it comes to 4 p.m. and I say okay Lord I dedicate the next 24 hours to you then on 4 p.m. till I go to bed now you're gonna wake up hungrier than normal because you skipped an evening meal but believe it or not that's actually gonna benefit you spiritually because you'll be conscious that I am stuffing my my physical in order to accentuate my spiritual you then make it through lunchtime and by 4 o'clock in the afternoon you can have a snack before dinner so that's just free piece of advice from someone who's practiced fasting a little longer a 24-hour fast is easier offset the meals I've seen people do lunch dinner skip breakfast and do lunch if that it works for your business schedule bro you go for it it'll work for you all right so I'll sure as I'm gonna ask you guys to come forward hopefully by now you've I just realized my pocket is not going off because I don't have my cell phone I don't know where it is so if anybody knows where my phone is after church would be really great if you help me find that because I'm going wow nobody's filled out a connection card yet that's really weird and then I realized it's not in my pocket so those you're online I still expect to hear from you you need to be fasting this week but we also need to be worshipping the Lord and giving just like we worship the Lord in prayer just like we worship the Lord in fasting we need to worship the Lord in giving so in a moment I'm gonna pray I'm gonna ask our ushers to make sure they pass the baskets give everyone the opportunity ushers don't deny people the opportunity to worship that's just like telling them everybody else can sing but you can't so let's worship together as we give ties and offerings to the Lord let's pray Heavenly Father I thank you so much that you are a God who calls us deeper in our spiritual lives Holy Spirit I ask you would touch every single person who hears this message whether they are on campus or online draw us into a deeper place in our relationship with you help us to fast and see the spiritual breakthrough that you are calling us to Lord we give of our finances today not to buy your blessing but because you have already blessed us and we are thankful and we are grateful for your love and your provision father receive the ties and offerings that are given this morning as an act of worship put them in your storehouse so that your kingdom may grow and your gospel may be sent in Jesus name amen