Part One
Wednesday, February 26, 2025 5:13 PM
Key Thought:
God's desires love and loyalty from His people.
Setting:
After the Babylonian exile, God's people return to their
promised land to rebuild, but prioritize themselves over God.
Haggai 1:1–15
1 In the second year of King Darius, on the first day of the sixth
month, the word of the LORD came through the prophet Haggai
to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua
son of Jozadak, the high priest:
Second year of - August 29, 520 BC; this also illustrates who
is "in authority" over Israel, they are still under Persian rule,
but allowed to live at home
King Darius - Persian king who let the exiles return
Word of the LORD - Yahweh's message to His people
Prophet Haggai - the prophet in Jerusalem, Judea
Zerubbabel - the governor or civil leader
Joshua - the spiritual leader, the high priest
When the Messiah returns, He will be BOTH the civil and
Haggai Page 1

When the Messiah returns, He will be BOTH the civil and
spiritual leader. God desires obedience from our whole lives,
not just the spiritual stuff.
2 This is what the LORD Almighty says: “These people say, ‘The
time has not yet come to rebuild the LORD’s house.’ ”
The LORD says - the context is God speaking to His chosen
people in covenant relationship with Him.
The Abrahamic Covenant is key to the setting of this book.
Time has not yet come - this is the perspective of the
people, God is speaking what their actions are saying
Rebuild the LORD's house - this is the dwelling place of God
with His people. It has always been God's design to dwell
with us, but we keep choosing ourselves over Him!
The human condition hopelessly chooses our own desires
over God's design.
3 Then the word of the LORD came through the prophet Haggai:
The LORD - God's words are to HIS PEOPLE, the loyalty He
desires from them is because they are in covenant with
Him!
Loyalty is an expectation of covenant relationship.
Through the prophet - Haggai is not speaking His own view
Haggai Page 2

Through the prophet - Haggai is not speaking His own view
or opinion, He is speaking on behalf of God to the people of
God
4 “Is it a time for you yourselves to be living in your paneled
houses, while this house remains a ruin?”
Is it a time - the Lord is speaking of the present actions of
His covenant people
You yourselves - the people prioritized themselves, this is
an internal choice with external results
Paneled houses / a ruin - the external result of the people's
choice is that they are living in lavish opulent homes while
the Temple (the LORD's home with His people) is lit. "dry,
desolate, or waste".
The investments in their homes required both money and
effort. Both were focused on themselves and not God.
5 Now this is what the LORD Almighty says: “Give careful
thought to your ways.
Give careful thought - God is telling His people to "Think
about it..."
6 You have planted much, but harvested little. You eat, but
never have enough. You drink, but never have your fill. You put
on clothes, but are not warm. You earn wages, only to put them
Haggai Page 3

on clothes, but are not warm. You earn wages, only to put them
in a purse with holes in it.”
Planted / harvested - the covenantal blessing of the land
was not on them because of disobedience
Eat/drink/clothes - despite priority and focus on
themselves, they aren't happy. They never have "enough"
to be satisfied.
Wages/holes in it - their life focus on money left them
always in want and never satisfied
7 This is what the LORD Almighty says: “Give careful thought to
your ways.
Careful thought - "Think about it…"
8 Go up into the mountains and bring down timber and build
my house, so that I may take pleasure in it and be honored,”
says the LORD.
Go to the mountains - they had to collect the timbers to
build the Temple, there was no Home Depot to simply buy
them.
Take pleasure / be honored - when God's covenant people
prioritize him in their actions, it both pleases and honors
Him.
What does God want from you?
Haggai Page 4

What does God want from you?
To live to please and honor Him in covenant relationship with
Him.
The loyalty and priority is FROM the covenant. It doesn't
replace it!
Does it matter if someone who is NOT your spouse chooses to
be loyal to you? Does it matter is your spouse chooses NOT to
be loyal to you? EXACTLY!
9 “You expected much, but see, it turned out to be little. What
you brought home, I blew away. Why?” declares the LORD
Almighty. “Because of my house, which remains a ruin, while
each of you is busy with your own house.
You expected / I turned it - God lessened the blessing on
their effort because of their lack of loyalty in putting Him
first.
10 Therefore, because of you the heavens have withheld their
dew and the earth its crops.
11 I called for a drought on the fields and the mountains, on the
grain, the new wine, the olive oil and everything else the ground
produces, on people and livestock, and on all the labor of your
hands.”
Heavens / earth - God is still sovereignly in control of
creation. He would not allow His people to receive bounty
or blessing because they were not being loyal to Him. They
Haggai Page 5

or blessing because they were not being loyal to Him. They
were choosing themselves over Him.
The labor of your hands - God restrained the fruitfulness of
their efforts because they were not in the right place
12 Then Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, Joshua son of Jozadak, the
high priest, and the whole remnant of the people obeyed the
voice of the LORD their God and the message of the prophet
Haggai, because the LORD their God had sent him. And the
people feared the LORD.
Whole remnant obeyed - the people as a nation are in
covenant relationship with God, their obedience reflects
this
Feared the LORD - lit. "honored" the Lord
13 Then Haggai, the LORD’s messenger, gave this message of
the LORD to the people: “I am with you,” declares the LORD.
I am with you - this is God's response to their obedience
and loyalty to Him. God would now supernaturally aid the
work of their efforts instead of restraining it.
14 So the LORD stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel son of
Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua son of
Jozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of the whole remnant of
the people. They came and began to work on the house of the
LORD Almighty, their God,
Haggai Page 6

The LORD - the context is covenant
Stirred up - lit. "breath, wind, mind, spirit" God "agitated"
the heart or passion of the people to once again be loyal to
Him and put Him first
15 on the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month.
24th day of 6th month - this entire chapter took place over
a 23 day period (v1 is 1st day of 6th month)
Let's sum up:
1: God's people have returned from the exile they earned
through disobedience.
2: Returned to the land, God's people prioritized rebuilding
their own lives above His temple.
3: God corrects His people, holding back their fruitfulness
allowing them to be selfishly unsatisfied.
4: God calls his people to prioritize His Temple over own
pleasures and promises to bless their efforts.
Let's relate to this:
1: Christians have been called out of the exile of sin and
selfishness to live loyal to Christ.
2: Like Israel, we often prioritize their own lives or pursuits
Haggai Page 7

2: Like Israel, we often prioritize their own lives or pursuits
above God's place in our hearts.
3: God still corrects His people and can hold back our
fruitfulness, allowing us to be selfishly unsatisfied.
4: God calls us to prioritize our loyalty to Him over own
pleasures.
The Takeaway:
Christians need to prioritize loyalty to Jesus over the selfish
distractions of life that ultimately don't satisfy.
Haggai Page 8

Part Two
Wednesday, February 26, 2025 5:13 PM
Key Thought:
God's desires love and loyalty from His people.
Setting:
After the Babylonian exile, God's people return to their
promised land to rebuild, but prioritize themselves over God.
Cyrus ended the exile.
Haggai 1:15–2:23
1: Promise in Discouragement
15b In the second year of King Darius,
King Darius - the current Persian king
1 on the twenty-first day of the seventh month, the word of the
LORD came through the prophet Haggai:
Day/month - a month-ish after 1:1, Oct 17, 520BC
LORD - the context is still covenant relationship
2 “Speak to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, to
Joshua son of Jozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of
the people. Ask them,
Haggai Page 9

Governor/high priest - the civil and spiritual leaders of the
people of God
3 ‘Who of you is left who saw this house in its former glory?
How does it look to you now? Does it not seem to you like
nothing?
Who of you is left - this question comes more than 66 years
after the Babylonian exile; likely few Jews remain who
remember the state of the Temple before it's destruction in
586BC, it's now 520BC
Seem like nothing - the rebuilders who had seen the "glory"
of Solomon's Temple were discouraged years ago when the
rebuilding efforts began with the foundation. This is
confirmed by Ezra 3:10-13, where the priests and Levites
who had seen it "wept aloud" at the foundations of
Solomon's Temple.
4 But now be strong, Zerubbabel,’ declares the LORD. ‘Be
strong, Joshua son of Jozadak, the high priest. Be strong, all you
people of the land,’ declares the LORD, ‘and work. For I am with
you,’ declares the LORD Almighty.
Now be strong… and work - the LORD is calling his people
to "gear up" and "get to work"
God could have supernaturally rebuilt the Temple. But instead,
He calls His people to His service to do the work of rebuilding
the Temple.
Haggai Page 10

God's work is often done by the hands of His servants.
For I am with you - this is God's promise that He is working
with them because they are now back in line with His design
instead of the their desires
God calls them to "be strong" and reminds them "I am with
you" just like Joshua when the moved into the promised land
the first time
5 ‘This is what I covenanted with you when you came out of
Egypt. And my Spirit remains among you. Do not fear.’
Covenanted with you - God is in a covenant relationship
with Isreal. This relationship obligates Israel to Him and He
to Israel. He made specific promises after Egypt He must
keep.
Out of Egypt - early date 1446BC, this is 926 years ago!
Remains among you - this illustrates God's presence among
His people as a whole; corporate not individual relationship
6 “This is what the LORD Almighty says: ‘In a little while I will
once more shake the heavens and the earth, the sea and the dry
land.
In a little while - this shows imminent not immediate
action from God
Shake the heavens / earth - God is promising an event with
Haggai Page 11

Shake the heavens / earth - God is promising an event with
"global scale" implications and effects. Hebrews links this
passage to the End of Days when Jesus will re-establish His
Kingdom on earth, Hebrews 12:26-28
Once more - they will see God do "God-sized" things yet
again, all is not lost
7 I will shake all nations, and what is desired by all nations will
come, and I will fill this house with glory,’ says the LORD
Almighty.
What is desired by all nations - two choices here:
(a) Jesus, the Messiah is what is desired by all nations
(b) the "treasure of all nations" or when the world's nations
will bring offerings to Jesus in the Temple at Jerusalem.
Either way, the verse is looking towards the return of King
Jesus when He will reign in Jerusalem
Fill this house - the rebuilt Temple will be filled with the
glory of the Lord God of Israel
8 ‘The silver is mine and the gold is mine,’ declares the LORD
Almighty.
Silver/gold - this makes sense in light of the previous verse;
the world's nations will one day worship Jesus
9 ‘The glory of this present house will be greater than the glory
of the former house,’ says the LORD Almighty. ‘And in this place
Haggai Page 12

of the former house,’ says the LORD Almighty. ‘And in this place
I will grant peace,’ declares the LORD Almighty.”
This present house - the future rebuilt house in which Jesus
will rule as the King of Kings
The former house - Solomon's Temple before its
destruction; the center of Jewish religious life and practice.
God's dwelling place.
Will grant peace - the effect of the future glory in the new
temple will be peace. The effect of Christ ruling in the
millennial Kingdom
2: Expectation of Spiritual Purity
10 On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second
year of Darius, the word of the LORD came to the prophet
Haggai:
Day/month - 2 months-ish after 2:1, Dec 18, 520BC
11 “This is what the LORD Almighty says: ‘Ask the priests what
the law says:
Priests - those charged with interpreting the Law
12 If someone carries consecrated meat in the fold of their
garment, and that fold touches some bread or stew, some wine,
olive oil or other food, does it become consecrated?’ ” The
priests answered, “No.”
Haggai Page 13

Consecrated meat - meat that has been given to the Lord
and is able to be eaten by His servants
Does it become - "consecration is not contagious"
13 Then Haggai said, “If a person defiled by contact with a dead
body touches one of these things, does it become defiled?”
“Yes,” the priests replied, “it becomes defiled.”
Does it become - "CORRUPTION IS CONTAGIOUS"
14 Then Haggai said, “ ‘So it is with this people and this nation
in my sight,’ declares the LORD. ‘Whatever they do and
whatever they offer there is defiled.
So it is with this people - corruption has infected the
people of Israel
Whatever they do - because the people are corrupt, even
their work is corrupt; the offerings and sacrifices they
brought to the Lord were "corrupt" because they were still
in disobedience to Him.
15 “ ‘Now give careful thought to this from this day on—
consider how things were before one stone was laid on another
in the LORD’s temple.
Give careful thought - asking the people to look at the
effect that obedience has on their blessing from God
Before one stone - before they began rebuilding; i.e., while
they were still living selfishly dissatisfied
Haggai Page 14

they were still living selfishly dissatisfied
16 When anyone came to a heap of twenty measures, there
were only ten. When anyone went to a wine vat to draw fifty
measures, there were only twenty.
17 I struck all the work of your hands with blight, mildew and
hail, yet you did not return to me,’ declares the LORD.
20 only 10 / 50 only 20 - discipline from the Lord in the
amount of "savings" that was left from their work
I struck all the work - God "struck" lit. "strike dead, hit,
injure, smite"; a direct action of the Lord working to correct
His people by tearing down the work of their own hands.
Did not return - God's discipline is meant to drive back to
him, but often we do not listen
18 ‘From this day on, from this twenty-fourth day of the ninth
month, give careful thought to the day when the foundation of
the LORD’s temple was laid. Give careful thought:
From this day - the change is the obedience of the people
to the word of the LORD
Give careful thought - God's instruction for His people to
look at how things have changed in response to their
obedience
19 Is there yet any seed left in the barn? Until now, the vine and
the fig tree, the pomegranate and the olive tree have not borne
fruit. “ ‘From this day on I will bless you.’ ”
Haggai Page 15

fruit. “ ‘From this day on I will bless you.’ ”
Seeds left in the barn - no, the timing of the event suggest
they had planted the seed, but were waiting for the
harvest; God is promising to bless them
From this day on - In response to their obedience; God is no
longer against them; but with them to bless them
I will bless you - one of the terms of the Abrahamic
Covenant; in response to obedience
3: Glory Will Return
20 The word of the LORD came to Haggai a second time on the
twenty-fourth day of the month:
Day/month - the same day as 2:10; Dec 18, 530BC
21 “Tell Zerubbabel governor of Judah that I am going to shake
the heavens and the earth.
Shake the heavens and the earth - a repeat of the promise
made in 2:6
22 I will overturn royal thrones and shatter the power of the
foreign kingdoms. I will overthrow chariots and their drivers;
horses and their riders will fall, each by the sword of his brother.
Shatter… foreign kingdoms - the Lord will exercise His
sovereign over the nations and their rulers
Haggai Page 16

23 “ ‘On that day,’ declares the LORD Almighty, ‘I will take you,
my servant Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel,’ declares the LORD,
‘and I will make you like my signet ring, for I have chosen you,’
declares the LORD Almighty.”
On that day - the day the Lord "shakes the earth"
Signet ring - this is not a reference to Zerubbabel himself,
but as a member of the Davidic Messianic line (Matthew
1:12), this is a reference to the Messiah who would come
from this line and hold the sovereign authority over the
whole world: Jesus.
Let's sum up:
1: God's people were frustrated by comparison of their temple
to Solomon's.
2: God expected spiritual purity from His people as they worked
for Him
3: God promised a greater glory for the temple and their nation
Let's relate to this:
1: Quality by comparison always disappoints.
2: Corruption is still contagious. Avoid it.
3: Jesus's return will bring God's greatest glory.
The Takeaway:
Christians should strive for spiritual purity while serving and
waiting for the return of the King.
Haggai Page 17