Well, good morning and Happy Father's Day. And welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor here and it is my honor to be able to share with you. Here at Catalyst we are about one thing and that is loving people to life change. Loving people to life change. So if you're here and you are enjoying this service today, whether you are on campus or you are joining us as part of our online family, we want you to know that we love you, but we love you enough that we don't want to make you stay the same. I want to encourage you to take a next step in your relationship with Jesus. I want to encourage you to learn from the Word of God and have it change the way you live. So one of the ways in which we do that is we study the Word of God together. So this morning I'm going to be continuing our teaching series entitled The Hall of Heroes. The Hall of Heroes. And it's the key thought that's going to keep all of these together. The life lessons of biblical characters are still relevant for us today. The life lessons of biblical characters are still relevant for us today. Today we're going to look at one of my favorite characters from the Old Testament. This morning's message is entitled Hall of Heroes Gideon. The story of Gideon. So if you brought your Bibles with you, whether they be physical or digital, turn or tap with me to Judges chapter 6. Judges chapter 6, we are going to read verses 1 through 40. I can't not show you the big picture. So turn with me to Judges chapter 6. I want to read verses 1 through 40. And then once we read the story, then I want to go back through, kind of break it down and show you why I think Gideon is considered a hero. So Judges chapter 6, I'm reading in my NIV this morning. Here we go. The Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord. And for seven years he gave them into the hands of the Midianites. Because the power of Midian was so oppressive, the Israelites prepared shelters for themselves in mountain clefts, caves and strongholds. Whenever the Israelites planted their crops, the Midianites, Amalekites and other eastern peoples invaded the country. They camped out on the ground and ruined the crops all the way to Gaza and did not spare a living thing for Israel, neither sheep nor cattle nor donkeys. They came up with their livestock and their tents like swarms of locusts. It was impossible to count them or their camels. They invaded the land to ravage it. Midian was so, or Midian so impoverished the Israelites that they cried out to the Lord for help. This is verse 7. When the Israelites cried out to the Lord because of Midian, he sent them a prophet who said, this is what the Lord, the God of Israel says. I brought you up out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. I rescued you from the hand of the Egyptians and I delivered you from the hand of all your oppressors. I drove them out before you and gave you their land. I said to you, I am the Lord your God. Do not worship the gods of the Amorites in those lands you live. But you have not listened to me. The angel of the Lord came and sat down under the oak in Oprah that belonged to Joash the Abysserite, where his son Gideon was threshing wheat in a wine press to keep it from the Midianites. When the angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon, he said, the Lord is with you, mighty warrior. I'm going to give Gideon an attitude, so just hold on a second. Verse 13, pardon me, my Lord, Gideon replied, but if the Lord is with us, why has all this happened to us? Where are all his wonders that our ancestors told us about when they said, did not the Lord bring us up out of Egypt? But now the Lord has abandoned us and has given us into the hands of Midian. Verse 14, the Lord turned to him and said, go in the strength you have and save Israel out of Midian's hand. Am I not sending you? Pardon me, my Lord, Gideon replied. But how can I save Israel? My clan is the weakest in Manasseh and I am the least in my family. Verse 16, the Lord answered, I will be with you and you will strike down all the Midianites, leaving none alive. Gideon replied, now, if I have found favor in your eyes, give me a sign that it is really you talking to me. Please do not go away until I come back and bring my offering and set it before you. And the Lord said, I will wait until you return. 19, Gideon went inside, prepared a young goat from an ephah of flour made bread without putting the meat in a basket and its broth in a pot, he brought them and offered them to him under the oak. The angel of God said to him, take the meat and the unleavened bread, place them on this rock and pour out the broth. And Gideon did so. Then the angel of the Lord touched the meat and unleavened bread with the tip of the staff that was in his hand. Fire flared from the rock, consuming the meat and the bread. And the angel of the Lord disappeared. Verse 22, when Gideon realized it was the angel of the Lord, he exclaimed, alas, sovereign Lord, I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face. But the Lord said to him, peace, do not be afraid. You are not going to die. So Gideon built an altar to the Lord there and called it the Lord is peace. To this day, it stands in Oprah of the Abysserites. That same night, the Lord said to him, take the second bull from your father's herd, the one seven years old. Tear down your father's altar to bale and cut down the asherah pole beside it. Then build a proper kind of altar to the Lord, your God, on top of this height. Using the wood from the asherah pole that you cut down, offer the second bull as a burnt offering. So Gideon took ten of his servants and did as the Lord told him. But because he was afraid of his family and the townspeople, he did it at night rather than in the daytime. In the morning, when the people of the town got up, there was Bale's altar demolished with the asherah pole beside it cut down and the second bull sacrificed on the newly built altar. They asked each other, who did this? When they carefully investigated, they were told, Gideon, the son of Joash did it. The people of the town demanded of Joash, bring out your son. He must die because he cut down Bale's altar and he cut down the asherah pole beside it. But Joash replied to the hostile crowd around him, are you going to plead Bale's cause? Are you trying to save him? Whoever fights for him shall be put to death by morning. But if Bale really is a God, he can defend himself when someone breaks down his altar. So because Gideon broke down Bale's altar, they gave him the name Jerub Bale. And he was there that day saying, let Bale contend with him. Verse 33. Now all the Midianites, Amalekites and other Eastern peoples joined forces and crossed over the Jordan and camped in the valley of Jezreel. Then the spirit of the Lord came on Gideon and he blew a trumpet, summoning the Abysarites to follow him. He sent messengers through Manasseh calling them to arms and also into Asher, Zebulun and Naphtali. And they went up to meet him. Verse 36. Gideon said to God, if you will save Israel by my hand as you have promised, look, I will place this wool on the threshing floor. If there is dew only on the fleece and all the ground is dry, then I will know that you will save Israel by my hand as you said. And it is what happened. Gideon rose early the next day, squeezed the fleece and wrung out the dew, a bowl full of water. 39. Gideon said to God, don't be angry with me. Let me make just one more request. Allow one more test with the fleece, but this time may the fleece dry and let the ground be covered with dew. That night God did so, only the fleece was dry, all the ground was covered with dew. Now realize that's a big passage, but I need you to see the whole story as we get into this. So let's go back to the very beginning. Let's go back to the top at verse six. And now let's start unpacking this a little bit. So here's the setting. The setting for this story, Israel's disobedience led to their discipline. Israel's disobedience led directly to their discipline. You have to remember, Israel is God's chosen people. He's like God's kid. The nation is like God's kid. When you obey me, you get good gifts. When you disobey me, you get timeouts. That's the way we raise children. Because ultimately where we're trying to raise our children to go is more important than any one thing. So the story opens in chapter six, verse one. The Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord. For seven years, he gave them into the hands of the Midianites. So the first thing you need to understand here of this whole story is the Midianites are disciplined from God to correct his children. So all the conflict between the Midianites and the Israelites, it's all about God correcting his children. If we go all the way back to Genesis, let's just review where are we in Old Testament history. In the book of Genesis, God chooses a dude. His name was Abram. He says, listen, you're going to be the father of a mighty nation. I'm going to bless those who bless you. I'm going to curse those who curse you. I'm going to give you this land. I'm going to be your God. You're going to be my peeps. You're going to tell the world about me and how much I love them. And if they had done everything right, we wouldn't have a rest of a Bible. They screw up. Then God sends them into Egypt. He sends Moses. Moses draws them back out of Egypt. Then they go through this wilderness wandering period. Super fun story. That's numbers. That's Deuteronomy. We get to the conquest of Canaan. That's Joshua. And now we're into the book of Judges. We haven't made it to the time in Israel's history where they have kings yet. That's the United Monarchy period that's coming later. In this book of Judges, Israel's got no king. In fact, that's the kind of the key verse of the book of Judges is Israel had no king and everybody did what was right in their own eyes. Everybody was deciding for themselves what is and is not right, what is and is not good. I don't know about you, but that sounds an awful lot like my life today. Everybody is choosing for themselves what is and is not right, what is and is not good. And here in the beginning of chapter 6, the Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord. So for seven years, he gave them into the hands of the Midianites. And in verse 2, because the power of Midian was so oppressive, the Israelites prepared shelters in mountain clefts, caves, and strongholds. So God allows a foreign nation to oppress his own people for the purpose of their correction, right? Their disobedience leans to their discipline. I don't know about you, but as a parent, it falls to me to discipline my children when they are disobedient. My children, of course, never disobedient. So nobody look at Micah. He's super nervous. No, he's always perfect. It's also my job as a father to bless my children when they're obedient, right? Don't take one without the other. So the Lord allows Midian to come in. He allows them to oppress. Now, we get a picture of this oppression, right? Starting in verse 2, because the power of Midian was so oppressive, the Israelites were hiding in caves. They were hiding from this foreign military power that came in. Why? Remember, when they camped on the land, they ruined all the crops. Remember, there's no Walmart. There's no ShopRite. There's no DoorDash. There's no Amazon grocery delivery. If you didn't grow it, you don't eat it. So one of the easiest ways to oppress people at this time in earth's history is to cut their food supply. You know eat, you feel oppressed, right? I get that. How many people are already looking forward to Father's Day lunch? Okay, a couple people can be honest. Thank you very much. This is how they oppressed Israel. They oppressed Israel. You can see there. They camped on their farmland. They ruined their crops. They brought in sheep, camels, donkeys. Their livestock were like swarms of locust. They ate the land till it was picked clean. Why? Because this is part of God's oppression of His people. Why is God correcting His people? Go back to chapter 6, verse 1. The Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord. You've got to see them as being disciplined or you're going to get the rest of the story wrong. What happens? We look at a story. We see conflict. We know that Gideon's the good guy. We immediately think the Midianites are the bad guy and the devil is behind them. No. The Lord is behind the Midianites. The Lord is allowing the Midianites to oppress His own people for their correction and benefit. So you can't just go to every story in the Bible and assume it's always the devil attacking God's people. Here's a great example. This is not the devil attacking God's people. This is God disciplining His people and there's a big difference there. So in your life when you find that you are up against difficulty, you are up against stress, you are up against oppression, please do not immediately jump to the fact that the devil is out to get you. Maybe you're being a little disobedient and God's trying to correct you and He's allowing a negative circumstance to steer you back to Him. Huge lesson that you need to see. So God allows the Midianites to oppress His people. Now let's move on. Second thing I need you to see. Salvation. The Lord answers the appeals of His people. Now we jump in at verse 7. So now we're moving on to 7-12. The Lord answers the appeals of His people. Verse 7. When the Israelites cried out to the Lord because of Midian. What does that mean? The Lord's discipline worked. Right? The Lord disciplined His children and what did that discipline ultimately do? Not crush His children, not beat them until they didn't love Him anymore. No, it was discipline designed to restore. You see that in verse 7. When the Israelites cried out to the Lord. If they could have just done verse 7, back at verse 1, we wouldn't have the story. Right? If you could just cry out to the Lord, Lord help me to remain obedient. I'm disobedient. I get my spanking. Lord, please draw me back. Well if we could just be obedient in verse 1, we wouldn't have a verse 7. Or all the other 6 verses that go with it. I don't know about you, but sometimes I just look at my life and go, yeah, hindsight's 2020. You ever looked back at younger you and you're like, dude, you were so stupid. No, I mean, obviously you guys are perfect. I do that a lot. Right? Super ADHD. I look back at 20 year old me and I was like, dude, that hair dye was a mad bad choice. I look back at 23 year old me and I think ice cream, that was a good choice. That was a good choice. Always, right? Life's uncertain. Eat dessert first. That's what you should, that's, that's, dads, that's your lesson for Father's Day. Go out to lunch, make your family order you dessert first. Verse 7. When the Israelites cried out to the Lord because of Midian, because of what the Lord had allowed to happen, this is what the Lord God of Israel said. Look at what God says here. This is what the Lord said. This is what the Lord, the God of Israel says. I brought you up out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. That's the whole story of Moses. I rescued you from the hand of the Egyptians. What were they doing in Egypt? Well, they originally went into Egypt to escape a famine as part of God's plan. Then they're in the Egyptian incubator. But then what happens? There came a Pharaoh who knew not Joseph, who didn't know the good things the Lord had done, and they oppressed them. The oppression causes Israel to call back out to God and then God sends them a deliverer in the hands of Moses. And I delivered you from the hand of all your oppressors. I drove them out before you and gave you their land. Now he's talking about the book of Joshua, the story of the conquest of Canaan. God is recounting Israel's history to Israel. I don't know about you, but have you ever been in a situation where God teaches you a lesson by reminding you, I already taught you that? That's what he's trying to remind Israel. Guys, I already taught you this lesson like three generations ago. Like where are you at, man? I know you took a nap, but can we remember? Like I'm the one who brought you out. I'm the one that rescued you. And I called you to be my own. And I called you to be obedient. And yet you still decided you wanted sin. You want all my blessings, but you want them on your terms. Right? You don't raise your hand. This is not the point to raise your hand. I will raise my hand symbolically for all of us. Right? This is me symbolically standing in the gap so that nobody else has to feel embarrassed. I would love all of God's blessings on my own terms. You know what the problem with that is? I'm not God. I can't make God bless me for doing things my way. I am only blessed when I do things His way. He's reminding Israel about the same lesson. Verse 10, I said to you, hey, remember this? I am the Lord your God. Do not worship the God of the Amorites in whose land you live. And then the end of verse 10, but have you listened? No. Has anybody ever heard that from God before? It's like, we just talked about this. Right? I feel like the toddler all over again sitting in daddy's lap in the living room. Dude, we just talked about this. We said we weren't going to do that anymore. We said you're going to leave all those pagan gods alone. You're going to stop all that sin chasing and be the child that I've called you to be. Be the one who represents me. I get that speech a lot. So if you've heard that speech before, trust me, you're in good company. The Gideon and all the Midianites got it too. Watch this. Verse 11, the angel of the Lord came down. Nope, I'm not here yet. So verse 11, the angel of the Lord came down and sat under the oak at Orpah that belonged to Joash the Abysserite. Sometimes when you read the Old Testament, you can get lost in names and clans and stuff like that. The Abysserites are a part of the clan of Manasseh that is part of the children of Israel. It's letting you know the family that Gideon comes from. The angel of the Lord came down, sat down, and this was where the son Gideon was threshing wheat in a wine press to keep it from the Midianites. I've got to explain this or it's not going to make any sense. Because I don't know, when was the last time somebody threshed wheat? Does anybody thresh their own wheat anymore? All right, so if I don't explain this, I'm going to be a little bit of a pain. I'm going to be a little bit of a pain. All right, so if I don't explain this, you're going to miss a really big point. So the Israelites are an agrarian society, right? You grow it, you eat it. You grow it, you ferment it, then you drink it. That's the way they live. So when it is time, when you hear them talking about the threshing floor, right? This is done on a hilltop. It's a building, four-sided building with a roof. And I need you to imagine there's a gap between the ceiling and the top of the wall going all the way around. This is so the wind can sweep through the top of the building. So they would take the wheat, they would cut it, they would put it on the floor of this building and they would beat the crap out of it. Then as they're beating it, they toss it up in the air. Has anybody ever heard of a winnowing fork, right? Jesus uses all these analogies in the New Testament. But if we don't get what they are, we're totally going to miss it. So the winnowing fork is like a really big rake. And we take the rake and you put it into the wheat and you toss it up into the air. Well, the wheat is heavy. It falls very quickly. The chaff, which is what we're trying to break off of the wheat, it's very light. The reason for the gap at the top of all the ceiling is so when the breeze comes through, the breeze pulls the chaff and blows it out of the threshing house. What's left is the wheat. That's what we want to keep. It's a very ingenious way of using wind in order to accomplish a farming task. They just beat it, they toss it up in the air. The air is what ultimately separates the heavy wheat from the lighter chaff. And then the breeze that's crossing above my head, all I got to do is toss it up and the breeze blows the chaff out. Why? Because the chaff doesn't matter. What I'm trying to get is the wheat because that's what I can make my food out of. This is normally done on a hilltop. Why? Because the breeze is better. Right? It's also a sign. When you see somebody threshing in the threshing floor, that means God has brought blessing. There is wheat in the house. Right? Remember, they don't have food, they don't have money, they don't have nothing. It's an agrarian society. So the symbol of the threshing floor at the top of the hill is a symbol of God's provision, his blessing. So it's paycheck time, mama's going to make some bread. Yes! All my carbaholics say amen. Exactly. See? I know who I'm talking to. So, threshing is normally done on a hilltop. It's normally done where people can see it all around and praise God for his blessings. Wine presses are done in valleys, much lower. Why? Because I don't need the wind to squeeze the grapes. It's normally done down in a valley where there's very little wind and it's grinded on a big wheel. It's because ultimately the juice is going to flow out and I want it lower to the ground so I can capture it. So when the Bible here tells me that Gideon is threshing wheat in a wine press, he is doing a task that's normally done up here on a hill for all to see and all to celebrate the glory of God. And he's doing it down here in a valley where it's hidden and nobody can see it. Now do you get the bigger picture? God has so oppressed the Israelites that that which would have been celebratory is now done in secret. That's threshing wheat in a wine press. And if you didn't understand all of that, you don't see the heart of Gideon. He is so afraid of the oppression that the Midianites have brought upon his people that even when they collect the wheat that normally would have been a symbol, let's praise God, let's thank God, let's do it in secret. Maybe they won't see. Maybe I'll have enough food for today. So I just need you to understand that picture because it's super important. That was verse 11, right? Threshing wheat in a wine press to keep it from the Midianites, verse 12. Then the angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon and said, the Lord is with you, mighty warrior. The Lord is with you, mighty warrior. Let me ask you a question. If you see somebody doing something they're supposed to be out here in public doing to celebrate God and they're hiding, does that sound like a mighty warrior to you? Can you understand maybe a little bit of why Gideon's going, uh, I don't think so. I'm down here barely trying to scrape by. I'm barely trying to get make a living, feed my kids, feed my family. I'm hiding threshing wheat in a wine press and you're calling me a mighty warrior? That doesn't make any sense. So now let's move on. Gideon doubts the Lord and himself. This is verses 13 through 18. Another thing I need to make clear. So has anybody ever heard the word theophany before? T-H-E-O-P-H-S, I'm sure Miss Barbara has. So let me explain to you what a theophany is. So we're studying the Bible. The Bible tells us about God. The Bible tells us that God is one essence in three persons, Father, Son, and Spirit. The Bible also tells us that God is an eternal being. That means God has always existed and he will always exist. You with me so far? So if God has always existed and will always exist, was there a second member of the Trinity before the New Testament when Jesus was born in human form? Did the second member of the Trinity exist eternally? The answer is yes. So that means that the second member of the Trinity exists during the time of the Old Testament. You're with me. When God appears in the Old Testament, that's called a theophany. The angel of the Lord character in this story is the pre-incarnate Christ before he picked up the name Jesus or Yeshua in the New Testament. That's why I said remember the second member of the Trinity is eternal. He wasn't born as a human until the New Testament and that's why we call him Jesus. But you have to remember that God the Son, if he's eternal and he's always existed, Book of John tells us that he was there before creation, that nothing was made without him. That means the second member of the Trinity, God the Son, exists during the time of the Old Testament. He not only exists, he makes several appearances in the Bible. This chapter is one of them. So this character who is called the angel of the Lord is a theophany. It's an appearance of God in the New Testament. I would also submit to you it is a Christophany. It's an appearance of the second member of the Trinity, God the Son, who we now call Jesus even though technically, like you're with me, he doesn't get named Jesus until a couple thousand years later. If he's the eternal Son of God, the eternal Son of God does show up several times in the Old Testament. This is one of those times. So the person that Gideon is speaking with is Jesus. He just hasn't been named Jesus yet. You with me? Alright, so keep that in your brain. If I just baked your noodle, put it on your Kinect card, we'll talk about theophany and we'll make it into some spaghetti, okay? I just need you to understand. That's why sometimes, like it's, there's so many wonderful things in the scriptures that I don't always get to explain. I'm trying to make the big points as we go by. The character Gideon is talking to is the pre-incarnate Jesus Christ. He hasn't been named Jesus yet, but the second member of the Trinity is eternal. So put that in here. Now let's load this up. Let's look at verse 13. Pardon me, my Lord, Gideon replies, but if the Lord is with us, why has all this happened to us? Like that'll preach, man. Like that line just by itself. That'll preach. Also, does anybody else's Bible right there in verse 13 have the word Lord all in capital letters? L-O-R-D, all in caps. Okay, a couple of you. That is a, so you get the fact that this book wasn't originally written in English, right? So this book was written in Hebrew. There are several names for God in Hebrew, but there's one very special name for God, and that's Jehovah. That's God's special chosen name for His people. When you see L-O-R-D all in capital letters in your English Bible, it's telling you God is using His special name for His special people, Jehovah. It could have been Elohim. It could have been Elohim. It could have been all these other names, but when you see that L-O-R-D all in caps, that's your English translators letting you know God's using His special name. He's using His covenant name for His people. So verse 13, but if the Lord, and oh yeah, by the way, that covenant God who made all those promises to us, remember Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, yeah, that whole deal, that covenant making God, if He was still with us, why has all this happened to us? What verse have we just read that answers this question? Going back to verse one, chapter six, verse one, the Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord. He hasn't connected Israel's disobedience with their discipline yet. He gets the discipline. He's there. He sees it. He hasn't connected the fact that the discipline is there to draw him back to God. All he sees is, wait a minute. I thought we were going to be blessed like all the time. I thought we were going to have milk and honey all the time. I thought we were going to have ice cream for breakfast all the time. Why is all this happening to us? I think that's a legit question. Verse 13, why is all this happening to us? And then he even says, where are all the wonders our ancestors told us about when they said, did the Lord not bring us up out of Egypt? Now he remembers the history, but he forgot the lesson. He remembers that there is a covenant making God who rescued my family from Egypt. He forgot the lesson that came with that. If you want my blessings, you got to obey. That's what the whole law is about. Blessing is muted through obedience. We all had a very special relationship with God. Obey me, you get blessed. Disobey me, you get cursed. And yes, I mean that. You get cursed. There are actual covenant curses spelled out in the book of Deuteronomy. Bro obey me and I'll bless you all day. Disobey me and you will be disciplined. And here's an example of it. Then let's go to verse 14. The Lord turned to him and said, I love this. Notice Jesus doesn't actually answer the question. I'm going to refer to him as Jesus just so you can all follow me. Then the Lord, Jesus, returns to him and says, go in the strength you have and save Israel from Midian's hand. Am I not the one sending you? Notice he sidelines Gideon's question. He doesn't answer it directly. He could have just said, bro, if you had done right, would you not be blessed? Like Jesus says that in the New Testament. He doesn't say it here to Gideon. He gets back on point. What was the first comment? Where is the first comment? Can livestock? Oh yeah, he calls him a mighty warrior. Verse 12, the Lord is with you, mighty warrior. Gideon gets an attitude. Why is all this stuff happened? That was verse 14. The Lord turned him and said, go in the strength you have and save Israel from mighty's hand, save Israel out of Midian's hand. Am I not sending you? And then in verse 15, Gideon still doesn't get it. Pardon me, my Lord, Gideon replied, but how can I save Israel? Do you notice he didn't listen to the last thing Jesus just said? Go save them. Am I not the one sending you? So whose power is Gideon supposed to be trusting in? He's supposed to be trusting in God's power, but he's thinking about it in his own strength. Anybody ever been there? Trying to trust God. I totally believe what God says, but I don't believe it enough to trust in his power. I still think I should do it my way. That's Gideon's problem. How can I save Israel? How can I save Israel? And then he's looking at himself. My clan is the weakest in Manasseh and I am the least of my family. Does that matter to God? Then why does it matter to you? Just saying. Like I'm just trying to read the book for what it says. Has you ever felt like, how am I supposed to be the one to do this? God, I'm not, I'm not Pastor Bill. I'm not Pastor Paul. How am I supposed to be the one? You've forgotten. I am the one sending you. You remember the story, but not the lesson. I am the one sending you. Verse 16, the Lord, this is Jesus, answered, I will be with you and you will strike down all the Midianites, leaving none alive. Verse 17, Gideon replied, if I have found favor in your eyes, give me a sign that this is really you. I got to say, I've been there. God, man, I really feel like this is you. You've been there, you're like super close. You're on the edge of taking that step of faith, but you're still questioning on the inside. Can I tell you that that's okay? Can I give you the permission to be just like me and be a fragile human who sometimes doesn't get it right? Like I can remember the last time I prayed this prayer. It was driving up here to meet with the search team. So Lisa, Tom, you guys were super intimidating, by the way. Good job. I'm driving up here and I got to walk on the street. And I got to walk on faith. I'm like, God, I wasn't expecting this phone call. God, I didn't know I was coming here. God, I still don't know who these people are. God, I hope breakfast is really good. You know, because I was meeting Bill and Buzzy for breakfast before I met with the whole search team. Like it's okay to not get it all the time. It's okay. You have permission to not get it. That doesn't mean you have permission to not obey. So Gideon says, okay, Lord, really, I mean, if I could paraphrase for a moment, what Gideon is saying is, Lord, I want to believe this is you, but I need to test it. Let me bring you an offering. So what is he doing? He's creating an offering. Why? Because there's only one being in all of creation who can rightfully accept worship. He's smart. He's thinking theologically, but he's acting a little timidly. Right? He's thinking theologically, but he's acting timidly. Please, this is verse 18. Please do not go away until I come back and bring my offering and set it before you. And the Lord says, all right, I'll wait here. Like, what? Like Daniel, that's probably the coolest part of the whole story. God, I'm really not sure if this is you or not, so do me a favor. Just like take a pause. I'm going to go like kill a goat and cook it. I'll be back. It'll take me like a couple hours. And God goes, OK, I'll hold it down right here. Like, that little bit shows me how much God loves his people. He was willing to let Gideon's frail humanity put him on pause. And he says, OK, I'll wait right here. So Gideon goes inside. He prepares a goat. He bakes bread. He puts the meat in a basket, brings the broth. He brings him pot roast with a side of bread. That didn't, I mean, it didn't take five seconds. There's no McDonald's. He's not like door dashing. Give me some goat soup. You know? He had to make it all. He had to make it all. Verse 20, then God says to him, remember, this is Jesus, take the meat, the unleavened bread, place it on this rock. Gideon did so. And the angel of the Lord touched it. And it went up with fire. Exactly the same way you give offerings to God in the law. How do I know that this is the second member of the Trinity and not just some random angel? Because nowhere in all of the scriptures are angels allowed to receive worship in God's place. That's how I know this is a theophany. That's how I know the character in the story is God. It's not an angel being sent by God because angels are not allowed to receive worship from God's people. We are not supposed to worship angels. We are not supposed to pray to angels. We are supposed to worship God. And in this passage, he accepts the offering directly from Gideon, thereby identifying himself as God Almighty. He places it, it takes up. Have I made it? I'm going to verse. I got to get all the way down to 24. All right, we're almost there. The fire flared up from the rock. Gideon realized. Then Gideon realizes now it's God. He didn't think it was God. He wasn't sure if it was God. Okay, now I know I am talking to God. Alas, sovereign Lord, I have seen you. I have seen the angel face to face. Gideon thinks he's about to die because in a Jewish mentality, you're not allowed to see God. You're not allowed to look on God. I just looked at God. I'm a dead man. I'm about to just whoop, just like my offering. I'm about to be gone. And then verse 23, the Lord says, peace, do not be afraid. You are not going to die. That's how I know what Gideon was feeling is Jesus has to remind him, bro, it's okay. You're not going to die. I came here to give you a message, not to take your life. It's cool. You got a job to do. Now, let's move on. Let's start looking at the next thing. Encounter. Gideon worships the Lord. Next, revival. For Gideon, spiritual transformation starts at home. Let's go to verse 25. That same night, same night as what? Same night as Gideon's conversation with Jesus. That same night. You know what that tells me? He didn't waste any time. He didn't wait. When you hear from God, can you please get on it? Don't be like, okay, God, that was good. We're going to pin that till next week. Nope. I heard from God. It's time to get on mission. That same night, the Lord says, take the second bull from your father's herd, tear down your father's altar to Baal and cut down the Asherah pole beside it. All right. Who's Baal? Baal is a pagan god. Yes, very boo. Thank you. But the name is Baal, not boo. Good job. Baal is a pagan god of the Canaanites. He is the god specifically over rain, crop growth, and monetary wealth, monetary value. Baal is supposed to be the one to give them food. I think it's very interesting. Gideon goes home to his daddy's house, and his daddy is worshiping pagan idols. Go back to chapter six, verse one. Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord. What did they do? Israel was doing exactly what God said not to do. I am the one that brought you up out of Egypt. I am the one that rescued you. I am the one that moved out your oppressors ahead of you. Stop worshiping pagan gods. Gideon goes home. What's daddy doing at home? Worshiping pagan gods. So dads, don't mistake the fact that you're the one that sets the spiritual temperature at home. Right? Gideon is called by God, but the first thing he has to go home and do is he has to undo his father's sinful practices. So he gets there. Then, so he tears down the altar to Baal and the Asherah pole beside it, which is another way of worshiping Baal. You would take somebody and you would impale them on a giant spike, and you would let them sit there and die out in the open. And it was supposed to be an offering. The Canaanite gods were really horrible. Really, really wretched. Verse 26, then build a proper kind of altar to the Lord your God. So what does Gideon do? Gideon doesn't just tear down the altar to Baal. He tears down the altar to Baal and turns it into an altar to Jehovah. In one motion, he takes down that which is of the enemy and builds up that which is godly. And in one motion, he resets where his family is at. He resets his family's focus. Why? Because revival has to start at home. If you're a Christian parent and you are expecting myself and Pastor Paul to be able to bring revival in your child's life, you are mistaken. No matter how good Pastor Paul and I could do at our jobs. Revival doesn't start at church. Revival starts at home. I might teach you something, but you got to carry it home and you got to talk about it. Why do you think in the book of Deuteronomy, it says when you get up and when you lie down and when you walk and when you go to the store and when you catch your Uber, talk about God all the time. Keep it on the top of your mind. So Gideon goes home. He tears down his father's altar. He rebuilds an altar to God. But oh, and in verse 27, Gideon uses 10 servants to do this. So this is not something that was like Asherah poles were the size of homes. Like this is a major construction project. And verse 27, because he was afraid of his family and the townspeople, he did it at night rather than in the daytime. The other thing I need you to see about Gideon, Gideon knew what was right. Gideon did what was right and he was still afraid of people. So let yourself off the hook. If you feel God telling you to do something, but you still experience a little bit of fear and trepidation about doing it out in public, you're still a little bit afraid of people. So was Gideon. It is totally OK. So he does this thing at night. And here's what I don't get. Kim, sunrise was coming. He did it at night so he could get it done, but he knew he was going to be discovered. Then verse 29, everybody in the town wakes up. Who did this? When we carefully investigated, they were told Gideon son of Joash did. And the people come out and they're like, OK, we're going to kill your kid now. This is the second time in 10 verses Gideon feels like he's going to die. The first time he feels like Jesus is going to kill him because I saw God face to face. And now my townspeople are going to kill me because I'm no longer worshipping pagan gods. Why? Because they were trusting in Baal to save them from the Midianites. How is that flawed? Because it's not Baal who sent the Midianites. It's God. The Midianites were disciplined for disobedience. You can't go to Satan to get out of what God is doing in your life. Like it just doesn't work that way. If God is doing something in your life, you go to daddy, not to the enemy. Because the enemy doesn't have any solutions when God is going to do something. Then they carefully investigated. And I love this in verse 30. The townspeople demanded, bring out your son because he has to die. He's broken down Baal. Verse 31. Joash replied, I think Baal can do this on his own. His father here takes a really interesting tack. He defends his son without actually telling the townspeople that worshipping Baal is wrong. Right? Notice what he says here. He says, are you trying to plead Baal's cause? Are you trying to save him? Whoever fights for him shall be put to death by mourning. If Baal really is a God, if, all of a sudden there's the question. If Baal really is a God, then he's probably strong enough to defend himself for someone who breaks down his altar. So he defends his son, but from a weak perspective. He doesn't stand out there and be like, Jehovah is God, y'all going to hell. He doesn't do that. Right? Why? Because Jesus didn't show up and talk to Joash. Jesus showed up to talk to Gideon. And Gideon knew what was right. And Gideon did what was right. And somehow, by doing that, Gideon is starting to stir revival in his house. Out comes his daddy and goes, okay, I'm down. Y'all really think, and then he starts talking to the townspeople. Y'all really think Baal can't fix this problem for himself? If your God was really as big as you say he is, maybe you should let him handle his business. So Joash does defend Gideon, but not with the same passion that Gideon has. Then I got to get to 33. Now let's move on. 33. Next. Oh, that didn't work. All right, take me forward one more. Mission. Here we go. Gideon called the people together to confirm the Lord's will. Then all the Midianites, the Amalekites, Eastern people, they joined forces to cross over to Jordan, camp in the valley. Then verse 34. The Spirit of the Lord came upon Gideon. That's the Holy Spirit right there in the Old Testament. You know the only difference between the Old Testament and the New Testament? In the Old Testament, the Holy Spirit, the third member of the Trinity, came on individual people for specific times and tasks, generally all from a corporate nature. In the New Testament, once the veil is torn after Genesis, the Holy Spirit comes on the veil. The veil is torn after Jesus' resurrection. The veil is torn. Acts chapter 2. I keep stepping over further. Acts chapter 2. The Holy Spirit falls. Now every individual believer has access to the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is still doing the same job. Still empowering God's people to be on mission and get it done. The difference here in the Old Testament is the Holy Spirit fell on individual people for specific tasks. In the New Testament, everyone who is a Christian has access to the same power. So right here in this one chapter, we've seen God the Son and God the Spirit both active in the Old Testament. The Spirit of the Lord comes upon Gideon. He blows a trumpet, summoning all the Abyssalites to follow him. And then he summons messengers from Manasseh, Asher, Zebulun, Naphtali. That's four different tribes. He summons together a third of the nation of Israel. They're fighting warriors. Yeah, I would say that's a God thing. Considering Gideon's own neighbors wanted to kill him for giving up on worshiping pagan idols. But he can call together a third of all of God's people. This is how revival happens. It starts at home and then it sparks into a much bigger thing. And you would think if we stopped at verse 35, we could have just said, and Gideon killed everybody, yeah God. But that's not the end of Gideon's story. Take a look at verse 36. Gideon says to God, if you will save Israel by my hand as you have promised, look. And then he puts out another test. This is the second test, right? The first test was the goat soup and the bread. The second test is the fleece. The third test is the fleece again, but the other way around. So Gideon was ready to follow God, but he still needed, God I just need to be sure. Have you ever felt that way? Like this story makes me feel so much better about my faith. Sometimes I can read the book, I can understand exactly what God wants me to do and still feel a little hesitant. Still feel a little unsure. God am I doing this the right way? All right, I'm going to put a test out here. But what I do like about Gideon is once God answered Gideon, and of course you could keep reading on into chapter seven. Once God answers Gideon, Gideon goes and he gets it done. Gideon follows God. He ultimately leads them in defeating the Midianites and now God's correction of his children ends and they come back to serving him the way they were supposed to. Again, if there was no chapter six, verse one, there wouldn't really be a chapter six and seven. They would have just said, and Israel continued to be good children. Unfortunately, that's not the kind of people we are. I have a hard time. I have a hard time with authority. Anybody else not like authority? Like yeah, okay, it's okay. Do I get to outrank God's authority in my life? No. He's still the creator and I'm still the creature. There's no way I get out from that authority. And every now and then God has to go, Bill, I told you so, go do that better. Try again. Yeah. I would say the number one thing I like about reading the Old Testament is it makes me feel better about myself. It makes me feel better when I can read about nations of people who wanted to love God, who wanted to serve God, who wanted to obey God and still screwed up from time to time. But when they screw up, God brings in correction and he calls somebody to lead them back to doing the right thing. That's what Gideon was. Gideon was called to lead his family in bringing revival to his country. I specifically chose this message for Father's Day. In fact, I had it on another week and I said, you know what? Revival starts at home is a powerful lesson for Father's Day. Let's talk about Gideon today. So, gentlemen, on the way in the door, you should have received something beautifully gift wrapped, just like this, right? If you open it up, it's a flashlight. It's simple. It's pocket size. Go ahead. It's pocket size. It's not flashy. It's not flashy. But this is a message. This is a message from our church to you. Yeah, John, you can, I mean, it's bright. For how small it is, like, it's a pretty bright flashlight. It's also USB rechargeable. You can keep it in your car. You can recharge it wherever you, you know, charge your cell phone, whatever. But when we were talking about what should we get our fathers for Father's Day, I asked Bill if we could order these. And here's my reason. I think we may all agree we want revival in our church, yes? How many, right? Okay. So here's the key. Gentlemen, you have to go home and light the way. Revival starts at home. And revival starts when the men of God step up to follow the plan of God and lead the people of God. This flashlight's not a super big gift. But I need you to put it somewhere that you'll use it. Yeah, it's also got a really, really cool, like, you watch all the strobes going off, it's because the flashlights have a strobe effect. Don't shine it. Don't be the dad who shines it in your wife's eyes, please. Rick, you're already in trouble. There's like three of you, so I get the benefit of seeing all the guys go. Gentlemen, it's your job to lead the way. It's your job to light the way. Some of you have stuff at home that needs to be torn down, right? Now we're going to get super serious for a second. Some of you need to go home and tear down some of the pagan sinful crap you got going on at your house. I don't know what it is, but I can tell you if Gideon had to go home and unwind what his daddy had set up, you might just have to go home and light the way. You might just have to go home and unwind what you set up at your house. You might have to go home and remind your family of who God is and why we follow him. You might have to go home and remind your family that revival starts here if we want to see it at the church. Revival starts here if I want to see it in my life. So here's the takeaway from today's message. It'll be there in just a second. I promise. There we go. Even when we have a relationship with Christ, we are not immune to doubt. We will need to rekindle revival from time to time. And then give me the next one. The presence of doubt, the lack of revival, and the need for motivation are all speed bumps on the journey of faith. Don't make them stop signs. Don't make doubt, lack of revival, and lack of motivation the stop sign for revival in your family or the stop sign for revival in our church or the stop sign to revival in our community. Because I can tell you this. We're in a neighborhood. There are homes literally on 360 degrees around the room you and I are currently sitting in. Those people need Jesus. The people on the street on the next row need Jesus. If we don't start revival here, it never gets there. In the same way that God called Gideon and says, mighty man of valor, it's time for you to lead my people. Now I'm not God, but I'm going to say it this way. Gentlemen, it's time for you to lead your families so you can stand with me to lead this church so together this church can lead our community to Jesus. That's what I want you to do today. So ushers, as you guys come forward, I want everybody to pull out their cell phone or grab the connect card that's in the chair in front of you. If you want to use your phone, you can scan the code that's right there on the handout. You can also scan the code. They'll put it up on the TV screens. I want everybody, if you're watching us online, I know you can't scan the code because you didn't get the handout, but you can go to catalyst302.com slash connect. What are you going to lead the way in your family today? Those of you who are watching, those of you who are fathers, you are designed to be the leader of your family. If you are not leading, you're failing. Get up, do better. I'm sure that's super pastoral. Get up, do better. That's my biblical advice for you. Because revival depends on us getting real with how we're leading our families. All of you who are here with me, I need you to go home and take stock of what you've got going on at your house. How often do we talk about God at the dinner table? How often do you sit at the dinner table? I mean, I don't know. In my family, we try to make God a part of every conversation we can because I want my children comfortable with talking about their savior. So I want you to fill out your connect card. If you don't want to use your phone, they are right there on the backs of all of the chairs in front of you. What are you going to do this week to bring revival into your home? What are you going to change to light the way for a new future for your family? As you're filling that out, we're also going to collect our offering this morning in a moment. I'm going to ask the worship team to close us in a song. Usher's are going to pass the baskets back and forth and offer the opportunity to give to God. Don't miss the fact that before revival came worship. What's the first thing Gideon did? He worshiped God personally with the goat soup and the bread. That was his personal worship. Then he worshiped God with his family by tearing down the Asherah pole and making an offering at home. Largely a rededication sin style offering. He rededicated his family to serving God instead of Baal. And then he led God's people. In the same way, you need to worship God personally here. Go home this week, lead your family in worshiping God as a unit. And then we come back together. We get in the trenches and we change this whole town for Jesus. That's the plan. Let me pray over our offering this morning. Heavenly Father, we love you and we worship you. Lord, we give to you today because you have blessed us. We dedicate ourselves to your service because you have called us. And we love you because you have saved us. Lord, receive all of our tithes and offerings this morning as acts of worship, as gifts under your storehouse. Give the leaders of this church the wisdom to allocate those gifts to changing our community. In your name, Amen.