Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here at Catalyst Community Church. For all of you who are here on our Wilmington campus and for our online family, thank you so much for joining us. I got word earlier when the service started they were having some trouble with the live streaming on the Roku app and the Apple TV app. I apologize. I will look into that this week. But thank you for all of you who made it either to our mobile app or our website. Thank you for being a part of our church. We're going to do something a little different for the next few weeks. Typically when I start a sermon series I explain where we're going in the Bible and we do the big Bible story. And I'm doing another topical series for the next three weeks because I think it's important that we remember where we come from. And so for the next three weeks as you saw the intro video we're going to be talking about heresy. And what we're going to be looking at are some of the heresies that have appeared and showed up across the pages of Christian history. And in order to so let me give you the key thought and then I want to sort of define some terms so everybody understands what we're talking about. So here our key thought is this over the centuries the church has overcome many false teachings and I can't stress that enough. There has been a lot of false teaching that has happened over the last almost two thousand years of Christian history. But learning about them protects our future and our theological health. So let's just call a spade a spade. Christianity is almost two thousand years old. Over the last two thousand years we have had the opportunity to go back and study again and again and again the teachings of Jesus the relationship from the Old Testament to the New Testament. There's just been a lot of things we've been able to learn over the years. However there has also been a lot of opportunity for false teaching to appear and when you hear the word heresy I want you to in your mind hear false teaching. So for the next three weeks we're going to delve into the world of theology specifically focusing on the line between what's called heresy and orthodoxy. And so I may be using some terms that aren't in your everyday lingo. So I mean unless you eat at my dining room table in which case I'm sorry for you. But let's let's just give a couple basic explanations here. So let's talk about the word theology. If you've ever been to Bible College or you're good at your dictionary definitions the proper definition of the word theology is the study of God. That's just a really kind of big blanket statement. So the proper definition is the study of God. The blue jeans ball cap walking on a street definition of theology is explaining the things of God. Right. So not just the study of God as a whole but what theology is is our attempt to explain the things we learn about God in his word. So I like as much as I guess the definition of the word theology proper is the study of God. The definition that I'm going to use for the next three weeks which I call the street definition. This is my you know walk around with it is the explanation of the things of God. The word orthodoxy orthodoxy is the correct beliefs of Christianity. Now that is different from a orthodox Christian because my mother asked me that when I was going over my definitions with her this week trying to make sure I had good words. I don't know if you've ever been tried to be a high school student when your mom had an English degree but it was not the best of times. Now I can call and she's like I don't think that's the right tense of that verb and I'm like okay cool let's fix that. So orthodoxy with the Y at the end orthodoxy are the correct beliefs of Christianity. Those of you who like words and you're going to try for your crossword puzzle next week orthodoxy or correct beliefs ortho praxe are correct practices or correct actions. Right. So orthodoxy or correct beliefs of Christianity heresy is departing from correct belief heresy is departing from or leaving correct beliefs. So now let me take these three words theology orthodoxy and heresy and paint you a word picture because my ADHD brain brain likes it when I can see pictures of words. So here you go theology is like the multi-lane highway of Christian teaching multi-lane highway within proper Christian teaching. There's a bunch of different lanes and we can debate and disagree and discuss different things. They're all on the highway of theology orthodoxy or all of the available lanes that you can drive in heresy is everything outside the guardrails. Okay. So anybody drove on 95 on a highway to get to church today right or just drive on one regularly you can drive onto a multi-lane road and you can decide do I want to be in the right lane. Do I want to be in the right middle lane. Do I want to be in the right right middle lane the left middle lane the left left middle lane and the far left lane right. You can pick which lane you want to be in and as long as you're inside the guardrails right you're not in the shoulder. You're not you know in the bush somewhere as long as you're in side the lanes you're on the road. That's what orthodoxy is like within Christianity. There are good things to debate. There are good reasons to disagree. We're not going to make everybody drive in the same lane. That doesn't mean that there aren't actual guardrails on the road just because there's a four lane highway doesn't mean there's not a shoulder just because there are multiple good positions within Christian theology within orthodoxy does not mean heresy doesn't exist. In fact the reason we know that there are different lanes is because we found where the guardrails are and that didn't happen in the first century. It happened over the years as the centuries passed and different teachers would rise up and they'd start teaching something one way and then other believers would question it and they go. I don't know what Steve's saying sounds good, but does it really match this and Rod over here? He says this but it's just that's you know, we should go ask Jim because Jim knows better and that's how we've created the big wealth of Jim. You don't have to question it when I say that don't look like that. Just let me give you the compliment. So this is why we need to study heresy. You need to know heresy because it exists and if you didn't know that there's whole realms outside the guardrails of good Christian teaching then when you come across it. You might not be able to recognize it and that to me would be bad. I want you to be able to recognize heresy. So I also want to make a distinction between heresy and heretic. So heresy is a false teaching. Heresy is not a person. Heresy is a thing. Heresy is false teaching. A heretic is a false teacher with a caveat. A heretic is a false teacher who refuses to accept correction. And I want to stress this. Anybody can teach something wrong one time, right? We don't call people false teachers just because they make a mistake because they didn't get it right the first time. When someone goes to them and says, hey Sharita, I heard you teaching this thing to your gal pal and I think that's a little off. Can we talk about it together? And somebody goes and then Sharita learns, you know what that's in the New Testament. The guy named Apollos. He was out there teaching the gospel, but he didn't quite get it right. And so Paul used Priscilla and Aquila to help bring him on board. We don't look at Apollos as a heretic. We don't look at him as a false teacher. We look at him as a teacher who still needed correction. So when we talk about heresy, there's a difference between heresy and a heretic. A heretic is someone who is teaching false doctrine who even when presented with correction refuses to relent. They make their ministry about the false teaching. That's the difference between a false teacher and a false teaching or another way to say that is heresy versus heretic. I know it's a lot of definitions. Everybody with me so far. If you're watching online, not at home. Good job. So today we are going to look at the historical heresy known as ebionism. It's spelled E-B-I-O-N-I-S-M. Ebionism. Ebionism teaches that Jesus was not God, but a human on whom God allowed his power to rest. And this is the foundation of where ebionism moves away from Christian orthodoxy. It is the Christian orthodox position that Jesus is fully God and fully man. And when you deny part of that definition, whether it's deny him being fully man or deny him being fully God, you've crossed over the guardrails. You're not in the lanes anymore. You're in the shoulder or you're in the grass. You're outside. So ebionism denies the divinity of Jesus. The key teachings of ebionism. I can boil down to four things. And remember, any of you want these, all you have to do is ask me afterwards on your connect card. Please email me a copy of your notes and I'll send you all of my notes from today. So you don't have to feel like you have to feverishly write. I'm not trying to wear out your hands. If you're at home, you can still do that. Just hit me on your connect card at the end. The four key teachings of ebionism. First, Jesus is not God. He is only a human. Second, it was at the baptism of Jesus that God allowed his power to descend and rest on him. Because it's not just that God allowed his power to rest on a human because of his strict obedience to the mosaic law. Jesus was so good at being Jewish that God allowed his power to rest on him. Number three, ebionites reject Paul completely as a false prophet. That means all of the books that Paul wrote in the New Testament are false scripture. You know why? Because Paul was huge in the fact that Jesus was God. He used the divinity of God and the resurrection of God to show God's power. And fourth, ebionites concentrate on the theme of good works. Why? Because if Jesus could get God's power, God's presence by obedience to the mosaic law and he's our example, then we must too be law abiders. Do you feel the Jewishness of ebionism? So even without telling you, can you see how ebionism rose out of Judaism clashing with Christianity? Now Christianity is born out of Judaism. Absolutely. Jesus was a Jew. All of the disciples were Jew. All of the known authors of scripture save Dr. Luke were Jews. So we don't need to deny the Jewish heritage of Christianity, but we need to understand that Christianity is a fulfillment of Judaism and thereby it launches into new territory. So the history of ebionism, I could boil it down to two key Jewish beliefs that caused them to go off track. The first is that there is only one God. Right? Now we agree with this point, but they say it differently. When we when they say there is only one God, they are referring to Deuteronomy chapter. Was it six where the Shema is where it says here Israel, the Lord your God, the Lord is one. And they would say that because you're claiming that Jesus is God, that means that there's more than one God. Now Christians were not saying that we're not saying that there's more than one God. There's one triune God. We add an adjective to describe the nature of God's of God's character and who he is. But the ebionites would say no. Yahweh is only one God the same way that the reason they killed Jesus, right? And Jesus was in the temple in in the Gospels. They wanted to stone him for making himself equal to God. The second thing is the ebionites believed that obedience to the law creates righteousness. And I need to say that again because I've worded it very clearly obedience to the mosaic law creates righteousness within a person. So these are the two foundational beliefs and you may be asking yourself at this point. Pastor Bill, this sounds like a fantastic history lesson. But why is this a Sunday morning sermon? Here's why maybe you haven't heard of ebionism. Maybe you haven't heard of the Jewish nature of denying the divinity of Jesus and seeing that righteousness is created by good works. But how does this sound? Yeah, I like your Jesus, but I think Jesus was just a good moral teacher who's an example for us to follow. And anyone can get into heaven by just being a good person. Anybody ever heard that in our modern day vernacular? That's ebionism. And this is why it's so important that we go back and we learn we've already dealt with this accusation 18 centuries ago. But because it's now got modern clothes on and it's now talking in tweets and insta grizzles. Now, all of a sudden we disconnect our history from where we came to where we are today. That concept that Jesus is just a good moral teacher. That's denying his divinity, right? He's just a person. And if Jesus is just a good moral teacher and God allowed his power to rest on him because he was obedient and he was a good person, then man, John, we should be able to do that today too. And this is the that's the modern clothes that ebionism wears. So my sermon this morning has two basic points. I want to show you why both of the underlying feet underneath of ebionism is false. And so the first thing we're going to do is establish why is Jesus God? Why is Jesus God? I have several different scriptures to show you so that you realize I'm not just cherry picking one thing. I want to show you why Jesus is God. So the first thing is this Jesus considered God to be his own father. This is going to strike right at the heart of the fact that modern people are going to try to tell you. Well, Jesus was good moral teacher, but he never claimed to be God. Bulls stop flag on that play. Jesus absolutely claimed to be God. And I'm going to show you let's take a look at Mark chapter 14 verse 35 and 36 says this going on a little farther. He fell to the ground and prayed that if possible, the hour might pass from him. Thirty six Abba father, he said everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me, yet not what I will, but what you will. This is Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane praying to God. The key word that I need you to see there is that word Abba, A B B A. That's actually an Aramaic word. It's not a Hebrew word. It's an Aramaic word. And it's a phrase that literally means daddy. Like it is a relationally intimate term. When Jesus uses the term Abba to speak of his father, he is speaking of him as the equal nature. This is my dad. I'm the same as my dad is my daddy. Right. We are that close. This is not just my creator. He's not just the Savior. He's not just the Redeemer. He is my personal father. When Jesus uses this word, he is making his nature the same as God. But maybe you don't want to take that one. So here's my next piece of evidence staying in the Gospel of Mark. But let's go to Mark chapter 2 verses 4 through 7. Jesus forgives sins. Watch this Mark chapter 2 starting in verse 4. Since they could not get to him or since they could not get him to Jesus because of the crowd, they made an opening in the roof above Jesus digging through it. And then they lowered the mat. They lowered the mat. The man was on lying on five. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralyzed man, son, your sins are forgiven. Now some of the teachers of the law were sitting there and they were thinking to themselves, why does this fellow talk like that? He is blaspheming. Who can forgive sins but God alone? You don't think Jesus knew he was calling himself God? His audience knew. In that very moment, you see the four friends. If you're not familiar with the story, Jesus is teaching. He's in a house. There's four people who are bringing a very sick crippled man. They can't get through the crowd. So they climb up on the roof, make a hole through the thatch which I just got to say, I need you to imagine we're sitting here and I'm preaching and all of a sudden somebody cut the hole in the roof and just starts descending people into church. It would be very disruptive. Everyone was watching. And while everyone was watching, Jesus saw an opportunity and not just healed the man but revealed his identity as divine God. And he said, son, your sins are forgiven. And if you don't think that Jesus knew what he was saying, that's why I left the extra verses in there so that you could see the Pharisees who were watching him knew exactly what he was saying. Only God has the authority to forgive sin because it is only God who is offended by sin. So when Jesus says, son, your sins are forgiven, he is 100% absolutely declaring himself to be God. But maybe that's not enough. Let me give you a third piece of evidence. Also from the Gospel of Mark chapter 2, 27 and 28. Here they're having a debate about the Sabbath and this is Jesus' answer. They're asking him, why do your disciples not obey the Sabbath the way we do? And in verse 27, Jesus says, then he said to them, the Sabbath was made for man, not man, for the Sabbath, 28. So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. Now Sabbath is a huge word in Jewish culture. It's one of the big 10 in the 10 commandments. Obeying the Sabbath is a legalistic piece of the law for their mosaic obedience. But did you notice what Jesus says here? Eric, can you take me back 27? I just want to show you the sentence. This is Jesus' sentence. The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. Thank you. Here's what I need you to see. Jesus is defining God's creative act from Genesis chapter 1. He's saying, no, no, no, no, you're getting it wrong. When we made, this is the new international Bill version. Bro, when I made the Sabbath, I made it for you, not you for it. See, when I flip the script, it sounds very clear. Jesus is defining the reason for God's creative action in creation week. How was he able to do that? Because he's God. Who is allowed to tell you why God does something? Only God, not even Jim. But maybe that's still not enough. Let me give you another piece of evidence. Mark chapter 14, verses 61 to 64. Now they are questioning Jesus. This is during his Passion Week. We pick it up in verse 61. But Jesus remained silent and gave no answer. Again, the high priest asked him, are you the Messiah, the son of the Blessed One? I am, Jesus said. And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One and coming on the clouds of heaven. The high priest tore his clothes. Why do we need any more witnesses? He asked. You have heard the blasphemy. What do you think? And they all condemned him worthy of death. In this passage, Jesus is specifically identifying himself as not only as the Messiah, the Blessed One, the one on whom God's favor rests, whose promise from the Old Testament, but by choosing to the identification of the Son of Man, he is choosing God's, the position of God's divine messenger. He identifies himself that way. And if you weren't sure if Jesus was calling it, well, maybe he was just calling himself an earthly Messiah. That's not how the high priest heard it. That's not how his original audience heard his words. The high priest said, bro, I mean, what else we got to do? Fred, he's blaspheming. He's not baptizing. That would be a totally different sermon. He is blaspheming right here in the temple. Let's just kill him. If Jesus's original audience heard him blaspheming, that means he's declaring himself to be God. One last piece of evidence. If it wasn't enough that Jesus declared himself to be God four times, let me show you what the earliest church believed about Jesus. The book of Philippians chapter 2, this is verses 5 through 11. Now, this would be denied by the Ebionites because Paul wrote the book of Philippians, and I want to show you why they would deny it. Take a look at this starting in verse 5. In your relationship with one another, have the same mindset as Christ Jesus, who being in the very nature God, did not consider equality with God, something to be used to his own advantage. Rather, he made himself nothing by taking on the very nature of a servant and being made in human likeness and being found in appearance as a man. He humbled himself by becoming obedient to death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above every name, that at the name of Jesus, every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That is one of the highest Christology moments in the Paulian writing. He's specifically saying Jesus had the very same nature as God. And in that very same nature, he didn't hold on to it as something to be used for his own benefit. But he allowed himself, he emptied it. It's very important, Jesus never gave up his divine nature. He intentionally emptied it in order to become human, to be like us, to be that fully God, fully man. But maybe you don't want to take the Apostle Paul's word for it. So here's one last piece of evidence that Jesus is God. John chapter 1, verses 1 through 4. This is literally one of the 12 who walked and talked with Jesus, who was in the garden with him, who was on the Mount of Transfiguration with him. And by the way, also outran Peter to get to the tomb. I cannot wait to get to heaven and watch the bro slaps between John and Peter for John making sure. And you know, by the way, I outran you on the most important day of our life. Here, John chapter 1, verses 1 through 4. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him, all things were made. Without him, nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of all mankind. That is the opening preamble to John's entire gospel. John begins with Jesus as God and shows us Jesus the man. Matthew, Mark, and Luke, the synoptics, begin with Jesus the man and show us Jesus as God. So John's doing the same story, he's just doing it beginning at the divine logos. The reason Ebionism must be classified as heresy is it denies Jesus' divinity. And there were plenty of other passages I could have used in there. I'm just not trying to wear out Eric's trigger finger on the mouse. There's a lot in scripture that shows that Jesus is God. So whether we're talking about the Ebionites of the first century, or we are talking about the modern day people in the coffee shop who did not, Jesus wasn't God, he was just a good person. That doesn't match the historical evidence. You know the reason I threw that Philippians passage in there? Because the apologist in me needs to make sure that you can use passages that cannot be denied by Christian naysayers. So, you hear me mention all the time, Bart Ehrman, one of the world's foremost New Testament scholars, he teaches at UNC Chapel Hill and he is an atheist. Bart Ehrman himself would certify that the entire book of Philippians was written exactly when Christians say it was written, and it was written by the man known as the Apostle Paul. If the atheist scholar is also going to give me one of the highest Christologies in all of the New Testament, Steve, we're going to take it. We're going to take it and we're going to hold on to it. And now when somebody comes to you and says, well, yeah, but Jim, that was just written by people who believe in Jesus. No, no, no, no, no, no, you can't do that. You don't get to undercut it when one of the world's foremost scholars who's not a Christian says, no, that is actually what they said. Bart's not going to agree that Jesus is God, but he's not going to be dishonest. No, that is absolutely what the Apostle Paul said when they wrote Philippians, period. So we have to deny Ebionism because Ebionism denies Jesus's divinity. So that's the first half. Actually, it's probably like the first two thirds because second half is a little easier. But the second thing that Ebionism denies that we must target directly is this concept that righteousness can be earned through or be created through obedience to the law. This is foundational to the Ebionite perspective that that righteousness is actually created in a human being by obedience to the Mosaic law. I just don't get it. But this is what they teach and the modern version is still true. People think I can get into heaven just by being a good person. What you're still saying is being good enough, I'm creating my own righteousness. We've packaged it in new, you know, social savvy terms, but we're still teaching the same false stuff where people are. They're trying to. So I would like to explain why righteousness is only found in Jesus. But in order to do that, I need to give you one extra definition. I want to define the word righteousness so we're all clear about what I'm saying and we're clear about what I'm not saying. So righteous, what does the word righteous mean? Something that is righteous is that which aligns with the moral character of God, often including relationship, i.e. honesty, justice, mercy, things like that. But the foundational definition of righteous is that which aligns with the moral character of God and often includes a relational component. So how can I show that human beings cannot manufacture their own righteousness? Well, here's evidence number one from the book of Psalms, Psalm 145, verse 17. This shows that the Lord alone is the measure of righteousness. The psalmist says this, the Lord, notice capital letters, that means Yahweh, covenant relationship with God. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and faithful in all he does. Anytime you make a measurement, right? Anybody ever use the tape measure or a ruler, right? Anytime you go to measure something, you have to first have a standard. You must have some sort of standard, whether you're going to measure in inches, whether you're going to measure in centimeters, whether you're going to measure in cups, whether you're going to measure in tablespoons, somewhere, somewhere along the line, you have a standard of what you know the measurement is. What the psalmist is telling us here in Psalm 145, 17 is that God alone is the ruler, the yardstick, the tape measure of what is righteous. Now, here's the other problem. You can't have two standards, right? The rest of the world tells America that all the time because everybody else uses the metric system. And we're like, do do do inches feet. When it comes to morality, you can't have two standards, right? How are we supposed to convert American morality into European morality, right? Is there a conversion table for that? Do I just like multiply by one or 2.54? Anybody wants to translate centimeters to inches? That's what you need. There isn't because when it comes to moral truth, is something good or is something bad? It's not measured in the physical space. It's measured in the immaterial. So in order to be able to make a decision about what is righteous, we must understand that God alone is the only measurement possible for what is righteousness. Evidence number two, human righteousness is measured by God. So not only is God the ruler or the measuring stick of what is moral and of what is good, but God himself measures human beings. Look at Genesis chapter 7 verse 1. Then the Lord, or excuse me, the Lord then said to Noah, go into the ark you and your whole family because I have found you righteous in this generation. Notice God's words here. I have found you righteous in this generation. God measured Noah's righteousness against his own character and standard and against the culture in which he lived. So God wasn't just singling Noah out. No, God measured everyone to the same standard, his moral character. And everyone else was found wanting except Noah. Don't believe me? Let's go to the New Testament. Matthew chapter 23 verse 28. This is Jesus speaking directly to the Pharisees. In the same way, on the outside you appear to people as righteous, but on the inside you are full of hypocrisy and wickedness. This is Jesus using his defined authority, his divine attribute as the moral judge, as the measure of what is and what is not righteous. And he measures the Pharisees. So herein lies one of the rubs that we as human beings like to do. We as human beings like to set our own terms. We like to decide what is righteous and what is not righteous. We like to decide for ourselves what is good and what is bad. Where do you think we got that desire from? Adam and Eve in the garden ate from what tree? The tree of the knowledge of good and evil. You and I and every human being who has ever lived has inherited an addiction to measuring things ourselves. I'll decide for myself what's right and wrong. I'll decide for myself what's good and bad. God, I don't need your standards anymore. I will decide for myself what is righteous and what is not. The problem is if the very definition of righteous is founded in God's character, humans don't get to make our own rules, although we try. We try hard. So God is the measure of righteousness. Second, human righteousness is measured by God. Here's my third point. Human righteousness is worthless and impossible. Human righteousness is worthless and impossible. Let me first show you Isaiah 64 6. This is the prophet Isaiah speaking to Old Testament Israel specifically about their acts or their works of righteousness. Here's what he says in verse 6. All of us have become like one who is unclean and all our righteous, all our righteous acts are like filthy rags. We all shrivel up like a leaf and like the wind our sins sweep us away. Eric, take me back one slide to the first half of that verse, please. Right here. The last two words on your screen. All our righteous acts are like filthy rags. That word filthy right there in the Hebrew has one very clear definition. Used menstrual rags. That is what that word means in Hebrew. It had right and all the ladies. Yeah, that is what all human righteous acts equate to the best of the best. All of our combined human righteousness is no better than used menstrual supplies. That's our human righteousness in comparison to the glory of God. So I just need you to know that it's not just filthy. Like I got it scraped in the dirt. No, it's deeper than that. Also Ecclesiastes chapter 7 verse 20. The author of Ecclesiastes makes it very clear here in verse 20. Indeed, there is no one on earth who is righteous. No one who does what is right and never sins. Now Ecclesiastes didn't know Jesus because it's in the Old Testament. Jesus had a very specific circumstance in which he was born. That's why he was born fully God. How you can possibly believe the Old Testament which the Ebionites did. Believe the Old Testament is true. No one's born righteous. All of human righteousness is filthy rags except for this one guy Jesus who was miraculously so righteous that he lived perfectly according to law as just a human being until his baptism and then he was given the Spirit of God. Like when you spell it all out, their position really doesn't make a lot of sense. But all I've done so far is show you why humans can't be righteous. Now let me show you where human righteousness actually comes from. This is human righteous. Humans are made righteous through faith in Christ. Romans chapter 3. There's a lot here in Romans. I whittled it down to just 21 to 24 to just try to make this simple point. Humans are made righteous through faith in Christ. Here's Romans 3.21. But now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been made known to which the law and the prophets testify. This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. Let me read that again. This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There is no difference between Jew and Gentile for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and all are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came through Christ Jesus. Do you see what Paul is saying here? I'm sure many people have heard the for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Yeah. But the verse right before that specifically says that any human being, any human being can be made righteous, but there's only one way to do that. Any human being can be made righteous through placing their faith in Christ and then God takes Christ's righteousness and applies it to our lives. That is the only way that humans can be righteous. So if I go back and just give you the review, what are the two big things that Ebionism or that uses to deny the divinity of Jesus? Ebionism says there is only one God. Orthodox Christian belief says there is only one triune God. That's bringing us back inside the guardrails. There is only one God. I don't disagree with that. We disagree about his nature. We disagree about how to describe him, how he has revealed himself in scripture. And if you're curious about the doctrine of the Trinity, I know I taught on it a couple of weeks ago. I don't remember when. It's got to be in the app somewhere. I don't know if you can find it. But we did an entire message just on explaining why the orthodox belief of the Trinity is there. It was developed as you read scripture because God is described as God, because Jesus is described as God, because the Holy Spirit is described as God, and yet God is one. So the doctrine of the Trinity is the logical outcome of the way God has revealed himself in scripture. To deny that logical outcome, you've got to break all of the scriptures I showed you this morning. So it is not that there is only one God. It is there is only one triune God. The second thing that Ebionites believe is that obedience to the law creates righteousness. I need you to understand that that is impossible. I need you to understand, no matter if you're here, you're watching online, or you have a family member who believes this, you will never be able to live good enough by yourself to have your sins forgiven and make it into heaven. You can't. It is impossible. Because the best we can do is filthy used rags. The literal best all of us can do will never be enough. That is why Jesus came. That is why Jesus died. And so how do we respond to obedience to the law creates righteousness? It is obedience to Christ demonstrates righteousness. It doesn't create it. I don't create my own righteousness. When I obey the law of Christ, I demonstrate His righteousness. Why? Because it was never my righteousness to begin with. I was never righteous. I was born unrighteous. I was born morally bad. I was born evil in an evil world. And Jesus came and died so that I could be made righteous. But that righteousness doesn't come from me, it comes from Him. The righteousness didn't start with me, it started with Him. But because God made the amazing choice to give us a Savior, to both justify us and sanctify us, and we could go into the whole doctrine of theology of salvation and all the different steps. But here's what I need you to understand. There is only one triune God and obedience to Christ demonstrates righteousness. For both of those reasons, that's why we declared Aemianism to be a heresy in the first and then like second century. And that's why today you cannot let somebody try to teach you that Jesus is just a good moral teacher and you can live good enough to get into heaven by yourself. Jesus was not just a good moral teacher. He was God incarnate. He walked the earth as God. He died as the God man. He rose as the God man. If you deny that, you are no longer a Christian. You are a heretic or you're in heresy. If once we correct you and you don't get in, then you're heretic. You cannot live righteous enough on your own. That's why we need Jesus. That's why He said, if you would just come to me by faith, trust in me, my righteousness will be applied to you. Preachers of the past used to call it the great exchange. I exchanged my sinfulness for His righteousness because of His grace in my life. It's that exchange moment, theologically. So how do I bring this in for a close? So here's your takeaway. Usher's and worship team, I'm going to ask everybody to get in position. Here's your takeaway. Christian orthodoxy teaches that Jesus is God and the only source of righteousness for human beings. Christian orthodoxy, meaning inside the highway, you're in the lanes. Jesus is God and the only source of righteousness for human beings.