Welcome to Catalyst, my name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor here, which means it is my honor and privilege to share with you from the Word of God. Now typically, well let me rewind before I give you that one. So here at Catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people too. And there may not be a better Sunday to talk about life change than New Year's Day. Because today is the day all around the country where people are going to come up with the things that they want to regret they haven't done by Easter. So as we begin a new year, I have a simple question for you. Did you accomplish what you set out to do last year? That's fantastic. That's awesome. I did not. You know, sometimes you set a goal and you meet it, sometimes you set a goal and you don't meet it. So typically at this point I would introduce you to the sermon series that we're going to study for the next couple of weeks. But because today is New Year's Day, I wanted to do something a little different. I wanted to have a singular standalone message on a very specific topic. So the title for my sermon this morning instead of Happy New Year is Holy New Year. I want to talk about holiness and what that actually means from a biblical perspective. So let me give you the key thought that's going to kind of string these whole groups of verses together. Because we're going to be bouncing all over. So those of you who are really good at your Bible drills, today is the day to feel good about yourself in church. For those of you who weren't, if you use your app you can just click on the little words. That's what I do. So here's the key thought. To be holy, and I need you to do this every time I say the word holy. Ready? To be holy is to be set apart for God's presence and God's purpose. So let's read that again. To be holy is to be set apart for God's presence and God's purpose. The best way I know how to explain this, let me ask you a question. By a raise of hands, how many people grew up in a house with a thing called guest towels? Anybody ever have, mamas have guest towels? Right? Okay, that's about half of you. So I grew up in a house where my mama had guest towels. And since my bedroom was down the hall from the master bedroom, my bathroom was also the guest bathroom. So whenever people would come and stay at our home, whether it's my grandparents, it's uncles, it's whatever, I would have to share my bathroom with the guests. So the teenage boy got the runt of the litter when it came to towels. Like when we were about done with towels and they were completely about out of usage, I would get them and they would be the teen boy towels. But when my grandmama came to visit, the teenage towels, mama said, keep that mess in your room. You don't use those. These are the nice, these are like the bright white with the linens and the embroidery. And it was beautiful. Well, then what's the difference? Doesn't a towel do a towel's job? Yes, it does. But the purpose was different. See, my mother had a group of towels for decorative purposes. She had Halloween towels and Thanksgiving towels and Christmas towels. But she also had just general nice decorative towels that went in the bathroom whenever my grandmother would visit to show my grandmother honor that she didn't need to be around the nasty funky teenage boy towels. She got to have the nice towels. The towel, the guest towel was set apart from the other towels for a specific purpose and a specific person. In this instance, my grandmother. And when my grandmother would visit my home, I knew even even if my parents didn't tell me she was coming, when I walked in the bathroom and I saw the decorative towels out, right? Mama don't put out no embroidered towels for some 14 year old teenage boy, right? That was the amen moment. You all missed it, right? You don't put out beautiful embroidery for 14 year old boys. You do when grandmama comes to town because she is deserving of special honor. So that's one way that my parents honored my grandparents when they would come to visit. We put out the nice towels. That's what it means to be set apart. Those guest towels were set apart for the person, for the honor of my grandmother. Now when I bring it into perspective here, to be holy means to be set apart. You are not set apart from something. You are set apart for someone. Let me say that again because half of you all didn't catch it yet. When you are holy, you are not set apart from something. You are set apart for someone. And it is the action of being set apart for that turns you away from. Watch, now let's just go through a couple of verses here. They're all gonna be here for you on the screen. I just want you to see God's perspective on holiness and then we're gonna break down what it means. Here you go. Leviticus chapter 11 verse 44. I am the Lord your God. Consecrate yourselves and be holy because why? Because I am holy. Leviticus 11 verse 45. I am the Lord who brought you up out of Egypt to be your God. Therefore, be holy because I am holy. Leviticus 19 verse 2. Be holy because I, the Lord your God, am holy. Leviticus 20 verse 7. Consecrate yourselves and be holy. Because I am the Lord your God. Leviticus 20 verse 6. You are to be holy to me. Hear that. You are to be holy to me because I, the Lord, am holy and I have set you apart from the nations to be my own. Deuteronomy chapter 23 verse 14. For the Lord your God moves about in your camp to protect you and deliver your enemies to you. Your camp must be holy. So that he will not see among you anything indecent and turn away from you. That's a sermon in itself but we're just going to let that one go. Ephesians chapter 1 verse 4. He chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. Hebrews chapter 11 verse 14. Make every effort to live in peace with everyone and to be holy. Without holiness no one sees the Lord. 1 Peter chapter 1 verses 15 and 16. Just as he called you is holy so be holy in all you do for it is written be holy because I am holy. Do you think that this holiness thing is kind of important to God? I would say so. And I would say in our modern day culture we have misunderstood or misapplied what it means to be holy. So here it is again. To be holy means to be set apart or to be distinct in purpose. See a lot of times we as Christians we define holiness by that which we abstain from. Right? I'm holy so I don't do that. I'm holy so I don't do that. I'm holy that's why I don't do those things. But if you sat in a chair and did nothing does that make you holy? No. Just makes you bored. Right? Coming from the ADHD pastor I'm telling you. You sit in a chair and do nothing. It just makes you bored. Let me look at it this way. Can an atheist be true to his wife? Yes. Does that make the atheist holy because he abstained from adultery? No. Hopefully it makes him a good husband and he probably lives longer. That's a good idea. But just because you abstain from something doesn't make you set apart for someone. The problem is when we talk about holiness in the church we get so stuck on don't do, don't do, don't do. Ten commandments. Thou shalt not, thou shalt not. Don't be do that. Don't be do this. All of the don'ts were supposed to be subjugated to the who. But if you miss the who then Christianity just feels like a bunch of rules about stuff you're not allowed to do. And that is how most people view holiness. So let me ask you a question. Husbands don't answer what I'm about to say out loud. Let me just prep you for that. Don't answer what I'm going to ask. Good job. Take a drink and just hold back. Do you stay faithful to your wives because you love them or because you merely just don't have enough opportunity to cheat? Let's just think about that for a second. I love my wife. She is the most amazing woman on the planet bar none. But my faithfulness to my wife isn't because of someone else. My faithfulness to my wife is because of my love and commitment to my wife. I don't avoid adultery because adultery is bad. No, adultery is bad because I love my wife. You see that? So when we as Christians understand that we are supposed to abstain from certain things not because those things are anti-Christian. It's because those things are anti-God. And when I'm over here in a committed loving relationship with someone, it's so much easier to say no, I'm not going to do that. There is not a woman on this planet that can tempt me to cheat on my wife bar none. And there are some very attractive ladies that live on planet earth. I'm sure there are. There is not a single woman who can tempt me to cheat on my wife. You know why? Because I love my wife more than I love the other 35 million women who live on the planet. It's not hard. I love my wife, period. End of conversation. There is not a man on the planet that will tempt my wife to cheat. Why? Because I can love my wife better than every other man on the planet. And you can't, you can't, you can't, look she's saying, yeah that's true. She got a nice big smile on her face. I know it's true. But when we stop and say, well no, no, you got to be holy so I don't watch those movies. We got to be holy so I don't use those words. You're neglecting the real deal. I'm not a good husband because I don't cheat. I don't cheat because I'm a good husband. Does it make sense? Then I'm not a good Christian because I don't sin. I don't sin because I love my savior. You see the difference? Just look at, Eric, I'm going to go back for a second. Take me back to Leviticus chapter 20 verse 26. It was right in the middle of that whole thing. You are to be holy to me. You are to be set apart to me. Just like my entire physical body is set apart to my wife and my wife only. Our relationship is one in which there are no other persons involved. God is saying to the nation of Israel, you are to be holy to me because I the Lord am holy. I am what sets apart from the world, not you. You are to be set apart with me because I'm already set apart from the world. And I have set you apart from the nations to be my own. Husbands, do you live, please don't answer this one out loud. Do you love any other woman as much as you love your wife? Okay, that was a trick question. You were supposed to say no. Right? Just think about it for a second. Is there any other woman on the planet you love the way you love your wife? No. Of course not. That's why she's your wife. That's why she's your queen. That's why she's your princess. And that's why this relationship works. If we only define Christianity by the things we don't do, so I'm a Christian so I don't do that. I'm a Christian so I don't do that. You're not giving yourself the real reason to be set apart. The person that you're set apart for. Does that make sense? The Old Testament Israel understood we don't live setting apart ourselves from things. We live because we are set apart for Jehovah God. And because of that relationship, this relationship dictates these activities. You will never be holy by stopping from doing things. And here's the big problem we teach Christians when it comes to sin. Don't sin and it automatically makes you a good Christian. No it doesn't. Because you can go sit in a chair in a box with no lights in a room and just be bored. That doesn't make you a good Christian. That doesn't make you a holy and righteous individual. Being holy and righteous requires the dedication and being set apart to this relationship. And when you get this, that becomes so much easier. I would submit to you, if you are struggling with temptation and sin, you're not turned far enough towards God. I mean, I'm just going to tell it like it is. This is New Year. I got a whole, I got three hundred, I got fifty-two more sermons to get everybody upset. So I'm coming out the box swinging this year. I am not tempted by any other woman because of how committed I am to my life. I shouldn't be tempted by sin if I'm committed to Jesus. That's what holiness truly means. When you are set apart for the purposes of God, it's easy to say, that's not for me. I would never take my mother's beautifully embroidered linen guest towels and use them to go change the oil in the truck. Why? Because it would be taking something that was pure and clean and set apart for honor and using it for something dirty and disposable. That's why we have paper towels. That's why we have shop towels. There are towels for that use. There are towels that are designed to get dirty and be disposed with. Those are not the towels that are set apart for honor and purpose. When you see that your life is set apart to be holy and honor and purpose for God, it's very easy to go, I'm not putting that on my towel, you nasty. Don't take the embroidered linen and go change the oil because see the purpose is over here. That was all of point one. I need you to understand biblically to be holy means to be set apart to be distinct in purpose. As Christians, we are called to be holy to be set apart for his presence and purpose. Now I want to show you three places in the Bible that will help you understand why you are set apart. Ready? Here's the first one. Humanity is set apart as the image bearers of God. If you have your Bibles with me, turn or tap to Genesis chapter one. Let's just start at the beginning. It's a very good place to start. Genesis chapter one verse 26. Then God said, coughed, he said, let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness so that they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the livestock and all the wild animals and over the creatures that move along the ground. So God created mankind in his own image. In the image of God, he created them, male and female, he created them. The first reason that you need to see yourself as being set apart for the presence and purpose of God is your human being and all human beings bear the image of God. Now you know why that's important? Because it doesn't say all religious human beings. It doesn't say all Christian human beings. It says all human beings. That means no matter how lost someone is, no matter how depraved someone is, no matter how annoying that someone is, no matter how teenagerish they are, right? No matter how young child they are, how toddler they act, maybe they're a part of a different political party. It doesn't matter. Every human being is made in the image of God and thus they are his image bearers. They're set apart from the time you were conceived for the purposes of God himself. Now a lot of times we don't like hearing that because I want my own autonomy, right? I want to determine the future. I want to be in charge of what I do. Well I mean I really hate to break it to you but you're not in charge of a whole lot. Like when we really look at the grand scheme of stuff that God does and then the little bit of the stuff that we... So my wife and I like to... When we discuss the big theological issue of God's complete power and sovereignty and how that balances with man's unique moral responsibility, right? So those of you who like your theology, you know this is a big deep issue. How do you balance God's sovereignty and man's responsibility? And there's a camp over here that says in order for God to be fully sovereign, man's free will is an illusion. And there's another camp over here that said the gospel requires man to be able to respond so therefore God's sovereignty must be subjugated to man's responsibility. I think both of those jokers are stupid. I'm just going to point that out. Like most of the time, I'm going to go right down the middle. I'm going to say it really simple. God's sovereignty granted me responsibility. Because of his power and grace and might, he has said, Bill, you're in charge of these things. I want you to operate. My wife and I refer to it as the sandbox. God built a sandbox and he put humanity in it and he said, okay kids, now go. I am not free to travel outside the sandbox which my creator has placed me in. I cannot make my hair change color. I cannot make my eyes change color. I cannot make my physical body disobey the laws of gravity. This seems so simple. We don't have to get way out of whack. We don't have to get way complicated. It is because of God's sovereignty that he has granted me a certain amount of autonomy and responsibility. But see, responsibility means you answer to somebody. And because I'm the image bearer of God, I answer for what I've done with that image. I answer for how I have reflected him in my life, in my marriage, in my family, in my church, in my community. All of that comes into play in being the image bearer. So the first reason that you need to see yourself as set apart this year is because you are human being made in the image of God. Here's the second one. Let's fast forward now to Genesis chapter 12. God's people are set apart to be a blessing to others. Now we fast forwarded from creation to Genesis chapter 12. This is where God calls a man named Abram to start the Jewish nation. This is the beginning of that Old Testament arc. This is what the Lord says. The Lord, notice it's in caps, right? That means the covenant name for God. The Lord said to Abram, go from your country, your people, your father's household to the land that I will show you. I will make you into a great nation and I will bless you. I will make your name great. All of that sounds super awesome. Don't forget the next part. And you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you and I will curse those who curse you. And all the people on earth will be blessed through you. I don't have a problem with telling you as a faithful person of God that you should be blessed. I think that's very biblical. But don't disconnect A from B. What is the purpose of God's people being blessed? It is so that we can be a blessing to the people of earth. Don't disconnect. The purpose of God putting blessings in your life is so that you can bless other people. God's keeping blessing in favor within a biblical context. I don't believe that God's going to bless us by every single person having the winning lottery ticket tonight. I just don't. Is it a mathematical reality that somebody probably win the lottery? Sure. But if you get distracted with the idea of favor, the idea of blessing, that it's all just about money, you have completely misunderstood what God's trying to say here. God's saying, listen, Abram, go from your country, your people, your father's household. Give up all of your identity. Go somewhere that you don't even know yet. I'll let you know when you get there. That's the land I will show you. God said, I will make you into a great nation. That's God's action. I will bless you. That's God's action. I will make your name great. That's God's action. And you will be a blessing. That's Abram's action. As the now modern day people of God, so if you follow the Bible through, God makes man, there's a fall. Then we have the patriarchs that begins the Jewish nation. We go through some ups and downs and some exiles and some other stuff. We get out of the back half of the Old Testament. Then all of a sudden there's a Messiah, there's a Jesus, there's a resurrection, and now we're Christians. We are now God's representatives. We are his ambassadors for King Jesus, who is still a king and still on the throne, just in case anybody forgot that part. It is our job, because you are the image bearer and because you are a person of God's kingdom, you should be a person who blesses other people. That's the second reason why I need to see yourself as set apart. You are not set apart for salvation to be selfish. You are not set apart for the king so you can have your own throne. No, you are set apart for the king so you can get to work. What's our work? Blessing other people and bringing more people into kingdom. It's not a hard job description. Everything in your life that you think you own right now, you don't. How do I know that? Because you can't force a single piece of that to go with you when you make it to the next life. If you're not in total control of it for all of eternity, it's not really yours. It's just like putting your children in charge of something. I still own it, but I've issued it or I've assigned it to my child to help them understand how to be a good steward of something. You're a good steward or a bad steward. I mean, I don't know everything you do in your life. You can be a good steward or you can be a bad steward, but don't lie to yourself and tell yourself you're actually an owner. No, you were set apart just like Abram was set apart. You were set apart to have your identity found in King Jesus so we can be a part of blessing the world through the name of Jesus. That's the difference between us and Abraham. Abraham was at the very beginning of God's redemptive story. It's now climax, Jesus rose, he's on the throne. And eventually the king is coming back for his citizens. I like to think about it this way. I was blessed to be born an American citizen. I won't back down from that. I think living in our country is amazing. I love it. But my American citizenship pales in comparison to my heavenly citizenship. My king is eventually coming back for his people and he's going to gather his citizens from all over the planet and we are going to rule under one righteous king. That's what it means to be set apart. It means to recognize your dual citizenship now, to recognize your new identity now and to live set apart. Here's the third reason you need to see yourself as set apart. Fast forward to the New Testament, the Gospel of John, chapter 13. Christians, specifically Christians, are set apart to love people to Jesus. Christians are set apart to love people to Jesus. Look at John chapter 13, verses 34 and 35. This is the words of King Jesus himself. A new command I give you, love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another. By this, by what? By loving one another. By this, everyone will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. Not only it is true you are set aside to be an image bearer, it is true you are set aside to be a blessing to others. The third thing I need to understand is you have been set apart and called by the king himself to point people to the king by the way you love them. That is our job description in a nutshell. Yeah, there's some theology thrown in there and there's a good amount of apologetics and we can have a fantastic conversation about that on another day. But Jesus is pretty clear. By this, they will know you are my disciples if you love one another. I would say as a whole, sometimes there's been decades where we've done well at that and there's been some times in church history where we've not done so well at that. We've tried to force the rule of King Jesus instead of offer the rule of King Jesus. Our job is not to force, our job is to love. You need to see yourself as a human being made in the image of God. There goes my ring. I should probably turn my phone off. That would be a great idea. Hey, it is off. That was your phone. Doorbell goes off. You have been set apart, made in the image of God, saved and called by the king of kings and lord of lords to live differently than the rest of the world. The question is, do we do that or do we simply fall into the habits of the world around us? Do we fall into the Monday to Friday, the grind, paying your taxes, watching the news, getting sucked into social media? Do we simply fall into culture or do we live a life that sets us apart from the world around us? Because it's the set apart that's what it means to be holy. And I don't think social media is a problem. I think it's dangerous. I think most people don't understand how intellectually dangerous it is. That's a sermon for another time. My challenge to you today is I want you to ask yourself a simple question. Today is January the 1st. It was exactly one year ago today, almost at this exact moment, that my family left Virginia in the U-Haul to drive here to Delaware. It would be a year tomorrow that I first met Tom and Dan and Danny and Mike and Anthony. You were there. They all came to my rental house over there and unloaded the truck. So you've literally known me for 364 days because we met for the first time tomorrow a year ago. In the year that we have been friends, in the year that we have journeyed and walked together, has there been anything about your lifestyle that has changed? This is just an introspective question for you. Do you listen to me every week and feel spiritually entertained or are you actually inspired to live differently? That's a rhetorical question. That's for you to decide. How well do you live differently in all of last year? And since today is January the 1st, there is no better day to make a commitment and say, Lord, I am going to set myself apart from the world around me for this entire year and be ready to be more in your presence and be more used for your purposes. What if I told you there was one simple thing you could do that you would feel God's presence more every day? One simple thing. Would you choose to do that thing? I think most Christians would probably say yes. You know what it is? It's wake up every day realizing you're set apart for his kingdom, not the world we live in. The world we live in is temporary. The world we live in is not eternal. The world we live in is focused on selfishness and sin. The kingdom that we are saved into is focused on servanthood and blessing and the power of God himself. So let me give you the takeaway. Here's your takeaway. Merely avoiding sin alone does not make one holy. Being set apart for God means we make time for his presence and we actively seek his purposes. If you are not making time in your schedule to be set apart for God, you're not living holy. You might mentally understand the concept. Yep, Jesus died to set me apart so I can live right here in the world. You see how that doesn't track? You see how that doesn't work? So this is what I want to do. First thing I want you to do, we're going to do two steps. First thing we're going to do is we're going to do our connection card and our offering. Second thing we're going to do is as a church we are going to dedicate ourselves and everything we do this year to God. So ushers, if you would get ready first. Yep, and if you can give me the connect card slide, that'd be great. I either need you to pull out your phone or the connect card that's in the chair in the back front of you. And if you're joining us online, I need you to go to catalyst302.com slash connect. I have a simple question before you finish filling out your card. What will you do differently this year to set this year apart from last year? Doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results. You know what that is? Insanity. That's right. That's the clinical definition of insane. Is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results. Guys, come on now. Go ahead. So if you are going to set your life apart this year and it is going to be different than last year, then you need to do something different. This is not just speech. Now, this is activity. This is my gentle pastoral boot tapping at your dairy hair. You've got to do different if you want to get different.