God, we are so thankful for your presence, God. I feel your presence falling in this place right now, God. Please open up our hearts and minds to what the Lord has to say this morning. We thank you for your presence. We thank you for all your blessings that you give us every single day. Thank you for everything, God. We love you. All God's people said. Amen. I am a Catalan. I am a Catalan. I am a Catalan. I am a Catalan. I am a Catalan. I am a Catalan. I am a Catalan. I am a catalyst. Catalyst family and we are thankful that you're with us today. We're a catalyst. We're about one thing and that is loving people to life change. So if you're here this morning, you're watching this message, we want you to know that we love you. But also we don't want to leave you where we met you. We all want to grow and take our next step in maturing in our relationship with Jesus. And one of the ways that we mature in that relationship is studying the Word of God together. So we're going to be continuing our teaching series entitled, I am a catalyst. Now with each teaching series I bring you, it's going to have a key thought. One thought that's going to keep all the messages going together. So here's our key thought. A catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates change in our lives. Our church name is, it is both a noun and a verb. Catalyst is the name of our church but as an action and as a verb, it is also the mission to which we are called. Every Christian should be a catalyst for someone else's spiritual life change. Sadly many Christians will become negative catalysts. They will be the kind of catalyst that causes people to not want to come to church. Or causes people to not want to hear about the saving message of Jesus. But we're not going to be those kinds of Christians. We're going to be the positive kind. We're going to be the kind that loves people and draws them in to a relationship with a savior. That ultimately will change their life and accelerate their growth. To do that we're going to accomplish 5 steps. I'll give you 5 steps to Christian life change. Step number 1 has to start with Jesus. Step number 1 starts by surrendering to Christ. Not only recognizing that he's savior but also that he's lord and he's king. Step number 2, then we get baptized. Two weeks ago or last week we spent some time talking about where baptism is in the bible and how important it is. This week we're going to talk about step 3. Live by the spirit. After that step 4. Join into community and step 5. Partner in ministry. My challenge to you, our church family and to all of you who are joining us online. Is you need to do these 5 steps. And then you need to help the next person do those 5 steps. And then the next person to do those 5 steps. And that is how we as a congregation are going to fulfill the great commission. Go into all the world and make disciples. So the first task for all of us is have I surrendered? Did I get baptized? Do I live by the spirit? Am I a part of community? Am I partnering in ministry? And then after you accomplish all 5, you get a little bit of experience, you cut your teeth a little bit. Then the next step is helping the next person along that journey. Now, today we're going to talk about the Holy Spirit. So before I get into the message, I want to define a couple questions. So we understand what we're talking about and what we're not. So first, who is the Holy Spirit? This is super important. Who is the Holy Spirit? The Holy Spirit is God, the third member of the Trinity, who both indwells and empowers believers to obey and accomplish his mission. Some people said, I don't remember if it was last week or week before. Some people have replaced the Holy Spirit with the Bible in the Holy Trinity. And so it feels like God the Father, God the Son and God the Holy Bible. The reality is God the Holy Spirit is the third member of the Trinity. He is just as divine as the Father and the Son. He is just as powerful as the Father and the Son. He is just as important to learn about as the Father and the Son. The difference, theologically, for those of you who like to be the Bible students, the difference is revelation about the Holy Spirit expands as we travel through history and as we travel through the Scriptures. The Holy Spirit is sort of concealed in the Old Testament and revealed in the New Testament. But that doesn't make him less a member of the Trinity. I want to give you a couple wrong views of the Holy Spirit. Let's get these out of the way up front. Wrong view number one is that the Spirit is an impersonal force. There are some people in Christian theology who like to say that the Holy Spirit is not really God. He is just the impersonal force that God uses when he does stuff. This basically equates the Holy Spirit to the force from Star Wars. It's impersonal but still powerful. That violates the doctrine of the Trinity. The Holy Spirit is God. If you want proof of that, turn to Acts chapter 5. When Ananias and Sapphira came to bring an offering before the church, Peter is standing there. He says, why have you lied to the Holy Spirit? In the very next verse, you have lied to God. So Peter himself, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, said the Holy Spirit is God. So the Holy Spirit is not an impersonal force. Number two, this flows out of that. The Holy Spirit is not less divine than the Father and the Son. He makes that clear in Acts 5. The Holy Spirit is actually God. And three, the Holy Spirit is best understood by our faiths. That's wrong. The Holy Spirit is best understood through the Holy Word that he has revealed. Just in the same way that we understand the characteristics of God the Father, we understand the mission of God the Son. If we're going to create a picture of who the Holy Spirit is, we've got to go back to the textbook. We've got to make sure that we're studying the Word of God and not operating off of our feelings. Now, I was raised Baptist. I've worked in Pentecostal churches. I have seen all spectrums of how people interface with the Holy Spirit. We've got to stay on Scripture. We've got to stay on task. So in order to do that, I want to share with you, first, Jesus' teaching on the Holy Spirit. Let's go straight to Jesus. If you brought your Bibles with you, whether they're physical or digital, turn or tap with me to John chapter 14. John chapter 14. As you're turning to John 14, this is a part of what is referred to as the upper room discourse. So this is Jesus himself teaching his disciples in an upper room in kind of a private teaching event just before the events of Easter week transpire. This is very intimate teaching. So if you want to compare and contrast, if you go to Matthews 5, 6, and 7, you see the Sermon on the Mount, right? That's Jesus teaching a very large crowd publicly. The upper room discourse is Jesus teaching a smaller crowd privately. That doesn't mean that what Jesus is teaching is not amazing. It just means we need to understand the difference. Here, Jesus is teaching to his followers. So John chapter 14, I'm going to read 15, 16, 17. And then I'm going to jump down to 25 and 26, just so you can follow me. 15, 16, 17, then 25, 26. So here is Jesus speaking, verse 15. If you love me, keep my commands. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another avenue to help you and be with you forever. There it is. The Spirit of Jesus. The world cannot accept him, because it neither sees him nor knows him. But you know him, for he lives with you and will be with you. And then we jump to 25. All this I have spoken while still with you, but the Advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will say in my name, he will teach you all things and will remind you of everything I have said to you. Am I having a battery problem? All right. So hang on just a second while we solve our technical difficulties. Okay. I say I'm back on. We got power again. Yay! Yep. Solved the problem right there. All right. So first thing I want to do is I want to go back through this, because this is Jesus himself while on earth teaching about the Holy Spirit. You're afraid I'm going to step on him. Thank you, man. Step on it and woo! We're going to need the Holy Spirit in a minute. All right. Let's go back to John chapter 14, verse 15. Jesus says, if you love me, keep my commands. Now remember, who is Jesus teaching? Jesus is teaching his followers. He's teaching people who already love him. So notice the way the sentence is worded. He's working off of a commitment that he already knows his people have. If Jesus were standing here today and said, if you love me, the accepted or common answer, if we're already Christians is, well, of course, Jesus, I love you. Of course, I love you. So then what? Keep my commands. Now remember, we're jumping into Jesus teaching. So he's already talked a lot about how to live according to part of his kingdom. But now he says that obedience should be part of loving Jesus. Don't miss that. That's super important. If you love me, keep my commands. And I will ask. So keep in mind, this is in part of being obedience to Jesus in following Jesus teaching. He says, and I will ask the father and he will give you another advocate. So those of you who are really good, how many people are in this sentence? How many persons? Three, right? I, Jesus, will ask the father and he will give you another advocate. And here's why I want you to see that word. Another is super important. So here's God the son. Here's God the father. And this word, another, highlight, long press, underline, grab a Crayola, do something. This word, another, is super important because in our English language, another just means another. In our English language, another just means an extra, right? One more of something. In the Greek, this word means one more of something of equal value. That's super important, right? In our English language, it just looks like I got two Oreos, now I got three Oreos, right? But in Greek, when Jesus himself is saying, I, God the son, will ask the father, God the father, and he will give you another. This word, another, literally means will give you one additional of equal type, value, strength, quality, fill in the blank. So when Jesus says another advocate, Jesus himself is saying the Holy Spirit is as divine as me, as divine as the father, he is another. An additional member of equal power, strength, divinity, authority, all of those words, right? Another, and then he uses the word advocate. Now, has anybody ever heard the word paraclete, right? Super theological word, paraclete. The Greek word for this word advocate right here is, and I really suck at Greek, paracletos. What it literally means is helper, counselor, intercessor, one who assists, one who comforts, one who helps. That's what the, another advocate. So what Jesus is saying here in verse 15 is, if you love me, you're going to obey me. And when you love me and obey me, I, God the son, will ask God the father, and he will give you another advocate, another helper, another counselor, another comforter who is as equally divine and powerful as myself and my father. That's what Jesus is saying. So when we understand, like, can we just be real for a second? Like, I grew up Baptist. I grew up American Baptist in New Jersey. Then I moved to, where did we move first? Gosh, I forget. We moved to Tallahassee, Florida first, and then I discovered Southern Baptist, and they were like full tilt in comparison to the American Baptist. Like the church I grew up in as a child had a piano and an actual pipe organ still in the walls. That's what we had. We had a Wana downstairs in the basement, but brother, we had pipes upstairs in the sanctuary. Then when I moved to Florida, all of a sudden Southern Baptist had like guitars and drums. And I was like, whoa, my parents were like, devil, right? My parents still to this day, I love them, they are probably watching, so I should be careful what I say, because then they're going to text me and be like, you were maining me. My parents still attend a very traditional Southern Baptist church. They still have a very traditional service, and they have a contemporary service. Then we moved to Florida, and I found out that churches could have guitars, and that was like my life. I was like, yes, they have guitars, they have drums. Then I go to the Pentecostal church, and I found out that for most of my childhood, I was never appropriately taught about the Holy Spirit, because I grew up in a church that taught doctrine, but not the character of God. So I got to say, if we're going to teach the whole Bible, and I believe we should, I believe every single page of the Word of God is the inspired Word of God that is profitable for teaching, for correction, for rebuke. We can't ignore what the Bible says about the third member of the Trinity, just because when you get to the gifts part of the Trinity, it gets a little weird, right? I get that. I'm not talking about the gift right now. I'm talking about who he actually is, and that's a doctrinal issue that we got to be clear on. So Jesus, God the Son, God the Father, God the Father, another of equal value advocate and comforter, and what is that equal value advocate and comforter going to do? Thank you, Jesus, for letting me know. He is going to help us and be with us forever. Now all of a sudden, and just think about this, think about this. What's Jesus' religion while he walks on earth? He's a Jew. What's the primary worldview of everyone Jesus is teaching at this moment? Jewish. Now I'm going to have all of you who know your Old Testament stories. Did the Jews ever live with God's presence among them all the time? No. Once God inhabited the tabernacle, God was in the tabernacle, but if you wanted to be with God, where'd you have to go? To the tabernacle. When they finally built the temple, Solomon dedicates the temple and bam, the Shekinah Glory falls, and all the priests can't minister and that whole fun passage. God's presence is in the temple, but he's not with the people. This is a game changer. This is the single biggest game changer that Christians should be able to access, should be able to celebrate, that for some reason we get so busy arguing about three steps down the line what the gifts of spirit mean, we forget to talk about the presence and the divinity of the spirit, which is where everything flows from. So Jesus says the Holy Spirit, the advocate, comforter, counselor, helper, is going to be as divine as God the Father and God the Son, but his mission is to help us and be with us. He's also called the Spirit of Truth. Not the Spirit of Confusion. Not the Spirit of Division. Sadly in Christian churches we see a lot of division over the Holy Spirit, when in reality there's an awful lot that we can all agree on. We just got to start there. Spirit of Truth. Now keep this in mind. The world cannot accept him. We're talking about the Holy Spirit now. The world cannot accept him because, now Jesus is going to tell us the reason why. The world cannot accept him because it neither sees him nor knows him, but you know him. Why? For he lives with you and will be in you. This is a game changer to the first century Jewish mentality of being in the presence of God. See, throughout the whole Old Testament you either had to go to the Tabernacle, or once Solomon built a temple, you had to go to the temple. Leviticus chapter 23 prescribes three annual festivals where all Jewish males were required to travel to Jerusalem and participate in three separate festivals every year. Passover, the festival of shelters or Tabernacles, and Pentecost. Those three, they had to go all the way to Jerusalem. Why? Because that's where God's presence lives. Now to that Jewish mentality, generation after generation after generation, of I have to travel to be with God. Jesus is going to flip the script and he's going to go, wait a minute, from now on he will be with you instead of you go to see him. This is where our understanding of the Holy Spirit really needs to start. It's a game changer for you and I today who live in the church age. We live in the post Acts chapter 2 age where every single believer has access to the Holy Spirit. Even the apostles when they were walking with Jesus didn't have that. You and I walk into a situation that is totally different. If you look in the Old Testament, did the Holy Spirit come on certain people? Yeah, totally did. But he came on certain people to accomplish certain things and I would argue almost all of the Old Testament appearances of the Holy Spirit dealt with Israel as a nation. Dealt with them collectively. The judges, the prophets, and then once the kingdom split dealing with whole groups of people. Now all of a sudden, Jesus is going to flip the script. He's going to say, for he lives with you. This is where as Christians we got to start understanding the Holy Spirit. This is the third member of the Trinity equal in value and divinity who will live with you and I for the rest of our lives. That's a powerful thing because now, like I don't know about you, but like maybe I shouldn't say this out loud. Do you ever read the Bible and get confused about what it says? Like come on man. Yeah, amen. Does it make you feel bad to know that I do that too? Like I still, it does make you feel bad. That's totally fine. Like sometimes I really got to dig and I got, now yes, I've been taught, I've been trained how to dig. I've learned how to dig. But I don't get it on the first read all the time. I'm constantly going, did I get this right? Do I need to check this book? Do I need to call my, one of my, I just called one of my professors yesterday. Because I was reading something in one of my textbooks and I'm like, and I just get very confused. And we have the ability to have the same Holy Spirit who wrote the book lives in you. You ever thought about that? The same Holy Spirit who inspired the pages of Holy Scripture is the one who lives in you and me. The one who is equally divine to the son and the father and he's there to teach us truth. And here's the other cool thing. The world's not going to get it. Have you ever noticed that? You ever noticed that unsaved people don't seem to understand some of the things that saved people say and do? Now part of that is because we've created our own Christian culture with our own terminology and our own whatever. And we can argue the efficacy of that at another time. But the reality is someone who has come to Jesus who is saved, who is in dwelt with the Spirit, has the ability to understand something an unsaved person does not. That's what Jesus is saying right here. If you're, here we go, let me flip it the other way around. If your understanding of God, your relationship with God and the Word of God is no different before you got saved than after you got saved, you're not listening to the Spirit. Because he said, Jesus said, he's the boss, that the Spirit is going to be with us. The world's not going to see him or accept him. But we will know him for he lives with us and he will be in us. Now let's take it forward to verses 25 and 26 and keep watching what Jesus says. All this I have spoken while still with you. So now Jesus is making a point. Guys, bro, I'm still here. I'm in this room. I'm teaching you about God. But the advocate, remember helper, guide, counselor, Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit whom the Father will send in my name. Do you notice the reference to the Trinity again in this one sentence? Jesus is doubling down on the fact that the Holy Spirit is just as divine. But the advocate, the Holy Spirit, just in case you didn't know who that was going to be, whom my Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and remind you of everything I have said to you. What's the primary job of the Holy Spirit? To remind you, to teach you how to live for Jesus. That's the primary function of the Holy Spirit in the life of every single believer. And it doesn't matter which view you take on the gifts of the Spirit. They do exist, they don't exist, they're bad, they're good, they're fun, whatever. It doesn't matter. It doesn't change that verse right there. It doesn't change that all of us are supposed to have the Holy Spirit teaching us and reminding us of what? Of everything Jesus said. The number, and think about this, what's the number one way the Holy Spirit did that? We have the written word of God now. They didn't have that. When Jesus was teaching this, he's teaching it in real time. It's Jesus in an upper room, probably with a snack, you know? Let's be honest, church people don't get together without food. So this is Jesus with a couple of pitas and some hummus, teaching about God. And he's saying, the Holy Spirit, don't worry, the Holy Spirit will remind you of everything I said. Do you know what you and I have today? We have the written, printed, and published reminders from the Holy Spirit himself of what Jesus said. Sometimes I think we take the written word of God for granted. We forget that when these words were spoken, they had to remember it. Praise God, I wasn't one of the disciples. Because my ADHD, I slept twice and I totally forgot the parable. I'm just, I'm being honest, I got to go back and read it again and again and again. And I have the Holy Spirit in me to illumine and teach me truth. So when we're talking about the Holy Spirit, we need to remember two very important things. Number one, the Holy Spirit is as divine as the Father and the Son. Number two, he lives in us to teach us and remind us of all that Jesus taught us to do. Now, I need to give you a couple important distinctions about the Holy Spirit. So first thing I want to do is talk about the difference between the indwelling of the Holy Spirit and the infilling of the Holy Spirit. So those of you who are looking for the theological portion of today's message, here it comes. These are two super heady theological terms, but they have a very big difference. So everyone in all of Christian theology, no matter what view you take, everyone is going to agree on the first step. So here's what I need you to understand. It's okay for us to not agree on all details. Let me just give you permission right now. There are certain areas of Christian theology where there's some quality debate going on. We have to agree on the essentials. Jesus is the only way to relationship with the Father. I'm pretty sure the boss said that one. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father but through me. We've got to agree on that. There's some areas in the Bible where we're allowed to disagree. I always like talking about the end times because there's all different kinds of views. There's like 50 million different views. You can have different views on the tribulation. You can have different views on the rapture. You can have different views on where Jesus' kingdom is going to be. Is it real? Is it a physical kingdom? Is it a spiritual kingdom? And guess what? All of those are okay as long as you can back your view in Scripture. So everyone in all of Christianity is going to agree about the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. What is that? That is the moment when someone comes to Christ. They are saved. They are justified. So there's your theological term. Justified, they are considered not guilty of all sin, past, present, and future. And they are indwelt with the Spirit. That's the one Jesus was talking about. The fact the Spirit's going to live in you. He's going to guide you. He's going to teach you. He's going to comfort you. It does not matter what view of the Holy Spirit you take. Everyone agrees on this. Now the infilling is a different word. The infilling is the Holy Spirit's empowerment for you to do what he wants you to do. And there's two views here. The first view views the infilling as a function of the indwelling. Now you have to remember, everything in Scripture written prior to Acts chapter 2. So that's all the Gospels and Acts chapter 1. Everything written then, the Holy Spirit didn't automatically indwell believers. But after Acts chapter 2, when the whole Pentecost thing happens and 3000 people get saved, now believers are instantly indwelt by the Holy Spirit. You are automatically given the presence of God living within you. That's the indwelling. Now, some theologians will say that because the Spirit lives within me, he automatically empowers me. Right? That totally makes sense. I can get down on that. Because the Holy Spirit's like a never-ending spiritual battery. And now that I have that battery in me, he can do what he wants through me. A different set of theologians is going to say, yes the Holy Spirit indwells me, but there are passages that talk about us resisting the Holy Spirit. Why do we resist the Holy Spirit? Why do we grieve the Holy Spirit? You can look those up. They're there. So, just because the Holy Spirit is divine and lives within me, doesn't mean he overrides my human will to make bad choices. Right? Hopefully nobody elbowed their spouse on that one. But, I still have a human will and I can still make stupid choices. So, just because I have the divine spirit of God within me, doesn't mean I'm not free to make choices. What it means is, I need to learn how to obey the spirit who lives within me. And he infills me with his power to do that. So, and I'll try to make a simple analogy. These people see the Holy Spirit living within you as a never-ending battery. These people see the Holy Spirit living within me that gets recharged. You know what doesn't change here? The purpose for the Holy Spirit. To teach, to comfort, to follow, to guide. The only difference between these two terms is the how the Holy Spirit does stuff. I'll be perfectly honest with you. I'm not sure as human beings, we get to dictate how the Holy Spirit works. I just, I think that he's probably a little bit more high ranking than all of us. What theologians are trying to do is describe what they see in Scripture. So, one group says, we're fully indwell. I have everything I need from the Spirit. I'm a full battery. I never need to get topped off. The other group says, no, I am infilled with the Spirit. My soul is sealed for all eternity. But there are moments in Scripture where the Holy Spirit kind of seems to fall on somebody or refill somebody. And it's a little different. A classic example of that is going to be Saul of Tarsus. Saul who is persecuting Christians on the Damascus road. Sees Jesus. Jesus calls him to ministry. He's blind for three days. And then Ananias comes to Straight Street to pray for him. The scales fall off his eyes and he is infilled with the Holy Spirit. Now, the indwell people will say, no, he was indwelt and it was just three days before he experienced the power of the Holy Spirit. Do you see how both of these people are kind of describing the same thing from two sides? So, we don't need to let this be a problem. The second thing, grieving the Spirit versus submitting to the Spirit. And I kind of already mentioned that. Grieving the Spirit versus submitting to the Spirit. Just because the Holy Spirit lives within you does not make you an automaton who now no longer has a free will. You have a free will. You still have a will. I mean, look at Stephen's sermon when he is facing off with the Sanhedrin. He tells them, why do you resist the Holy Spirit? Now, this is going to be somewhat, that's a somewhat contentious passage for anybody who leans more towards the Calvinistic side of theology because they have a foundational belief that you cannot resist the Holy Spirit. So, they got to do something different with that verse. Because Stephen specifically said, you're resisting the Holy Spirit. Paul says, we grieve the Holy Spirit. So, how do we do that? It's when I exercise my human will in direct violation of what the Holy Spirit's divine will wants me to do. Has anybody, and do not raise your hand here. Has anybody ever felt that God wanted them to do something and they didn't do it? Don't raise your hand. That's grieving the Holy Spirit. That's what that means. It means that the Holy Spirit wanted me to do this, and I let, and I went this way. It's not a super difficult concept to grasp, but what lies underneath of that is you can be indwelt with the divine power of God and still be a screw up. Praise God. Now, I feel better about myself. Because you know what happens? If you don't understand this distinction, this is how people fall into the trap of, oh, I accidentally sinned. I must not be saved anymore. Right? Oh, I've got to get re-saved. Oh, I've got to get refilled with the Spirit. No. You just got to get disciplined enough to do what daddy tells you to do and stop doing what you want to do. Anybody who's ever had kids knows that one. Anybody who's ever had a child and you said, child, go do X, Y, Z. And the child refuses to do X, Y, Z. So, you put the carrot out there. I will give you this to do X, Y, Z. They go, I don't want that carrot. You put the stick out there. I will do this if you don't X, Y, Z. We've all dealt with submission issues. So, when we talk about grieving the Spirit, you are exercising your free human will in violation or in direct opposition to what the spiritual will of God within you wants you to do. And the third distinction. Fruit versus gifts. First thing I need you to understand is there's no S on this word. When Paul talks about the fruit of the Spirit and he lists them off, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control, here's what I need you to understand. He is not describing nine different fruits that you have to get at different times. He is describing the singular fruit, meaning when the Spirit is within you, all of those fruits should be present. They are together the fruit of the Spirit. Think about a fruit basket, right? When you describe a fruit basket, it's all kinds of fruit but it's in one basket. Congratulations, I've given you all permission to be fruity for the rest of your lives. You are a fruit basket of the Holy Spirit. Within you should be love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness. Self-control, that's the last one on the list. We can't just say, oh, I feel the Spirit today, I feel happy. Happy is not one of the fruit. Did you ever notice that? He didn't say love, joy, peace, happiness. Love, joy, peace, patience. Oh, when you sit down and look at that list, now I know why I grieve the Spirit. Because I'm not a very patient person. I'm sometimes not a joyous person. I am definitely not a self-controlled person. Right? That's the one my son laughs at. Thank you so much. The fruit of this, and here's the other thing. No theologian on the planet, regardless of what your views are, argues that we don't have the fruit of the Spirit. Nobody argues this. Whether you're on the conservative side or the liberal side, the cessationist side or the Pentecostal side, nobody argues that we shouldn't have love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, love, control. Why? Because nobody argues the indwelling of the Spirit. That's what I want you to see. That's how those are connected. Nobody argues that Christians don't have the Holy Spirit, and nobody argues we shouldn't have the fruit. And when it comes to gifts, guess what? There's two categories of gifts. The first category nobody argues about. I've never once heard someone in my life argue that the gift of administration doesn't exist today. Did you know that that's a gift in the Bible? The gift of administration. Look it up. It's there. I've never heard someone argue that the gift of administration died in the first generation of the disciples. I've never heard someone argue the gift of teaching died with the first generation of the apostles. I've never heard someone argue the gift of stewardship died in the first generation of apostles. So for some reason when it comes to the gifts of the Spirit, we've divided them into two subcategories. The non-miraculous gifts like administration, teaching, stewardship, and the miraculous gifts, healing, tongues, interpretation of tongues. This is another one of those areas where I give you permission to disagree. Some people will say that this category of gifts no longer exists, but this category of gifts nobody argues with. You know what's super funny? I've never seen a cessationist or conservative theologian argue that we shouldn't pray for healing anymore. Why? Because Paul in his pastoral letters said, if anybody needs to be healed, call the elders of the church forward to have them pray for them. So anybody who obeys Paul in the pastoral letters still thinks that we should pray for people to be healed. They deny this gift of healing that an individual person can heal, but not that God himself can heal. So you see how all of a sudden it gets really sticky? Here's what I need you to know. You're allowed to have your own view of the gifts of the Spirit. Period. As long as your view can be backed by the word of God. Because here's the other thing I'll tell you. The fruit of the Spirit and the gifts of the Spirit must obey the word of the Spirit. Why? Because God can't lie. God cannot be anything other than his super divine holy self. So the fruit has to obey the word. The gifts have to obey the word. Now within that, yes, there are some different theological views. And I think it's a wonderful conversation to have. As long as everybody can hold the nerves back. Right? I've worked in Southern Baptist churches. I've worked in Pentecostal churches. I've worked in charismatic churches. I've worked all over. I've experienced theology from a full spectrum. And here's what I can tell you is totally the truth. Everybody wants to focus on the two or three gifts that we might disagree on. And ignore the giant plethora of doctrine that we all agree on. That's why this is the absolute last point in my message today. This doesn't change everything else that came before. Whether you want to be in the group that says the miraculous gifts don't happen today. Or the group that says they can happen today. The Holy Spirit is still the divine third member of the Trinity. Regardless of what your view of the gifts of the Spirit are. He still indwells every believer to teach us, to guide us, and to comfort us. These are standards that we all got to hold on to. Within that standard, there's going to be a little small pocket here. Where we can have some debate and discussion. If you have never heard what I just said about you're allowed to disagree with your pastor. You're allowed to disagree. Notice I still didn't tell you where I stand on the issue. Because it is not for me to determine your theology. It's for me to teach you the word of God. And you determine your theology. Right? My job is to teach you what the book says. Your job is to go live it. I'm not responsible for the way you live your theology. So this is what I want you to do. Ben, if you could come retake the piano please. Eric, take me to the connection card spot. I want to talk for a minute. But if everybody will do me a favor, pull out your cell phones. You can scan the QR code that is on the handout you were given. And I want you to pull up your connect card. But I don't want you to file it yet. I want you to open the connect card on your phone. If you're joining us online. Or you're here and you don't have one of the QR codes to scan. You can go to catalyst302.com slash connect. And that will pull up the digital connect card on your phone. Here's what I want to ask. And I want to ask it in a very honest fashion. I had a conversation with my mom about 6 months ago. Maybe 8 months ago. My mom called me. And she has grown up in a Baptist church. Her whole life. And she called me because she came across Francis Chan's The Forgotten God. Amazing book. Amazing book. Amazing book. And she called me and she said, Bill. And she's at this point. I don't think she was tearful. But there's a fine line between tearful and irritated. And my mom was flirting with it. And she said, why have I grown up in church my whole life. And not been taught who the Holy Spirit is. And how he's supposed to help me live my life. Forget about gifts. Forget about worship styles. Forget about everything else. Why was I denied access to learning that the power of God lives within me. And I've lived some years. I'm not going to give away her age, right? Mom, I love you too. Why was I denied learning that the divine power of God. Who by the way was there in Genesis 1. The Spirit hovered over the waters. Was active in creation. Was there at Jesus' baptism. Was there when Jesus rose. Was sent to the church as our everlasting gift. Bill, why was I denied being taught? And I said, mom, I don't know. But you don't have to be that way anymore. So that's where I bring you today. I'm new here. I'm the new guy, right? I have no idea what you have and have not been taught. About the divine third member of the trinity. All I can do is show you what the Bible says. And ask you, did you know that? But I can tell you this. The Spirit of God is what makes the people in this room different from the people out there. The Spirit of God living within His church. Moving freely through His members. Empowering us to remember scripture. To love the unlovable. To minister to those who have forgotten. That's what makes Christians better than the rest of the world. That's who we should be. So here's my question for you today. Live by the Spirit is the third step in our process of Christian life change. If you have never been taught what it means to be guided by the Spirit day to day. Then I need you to click that box on your connect card. If you're watching this, even if you're watching this message after our church service is over. If you've never been told that you can have the same Spirit of God who wrote the word of God. Reminding you of it when you're living your life. Then that's your next step today. I need to learn to live by the Spirit. Pastor, I want to talk to you. In the last three weeks, I've had a phone call every single week. Somebody wanted me to explain what the gifts of the Spirit are. Because they see it in the Bible and don't understand how it works. If you have a question about the Holy Spirit, guess what? The bottom of your connect card has an open field for you to type. Use it. Pastor, I've never heard this before. What the mess are you saying? You know, use that open box and ask me whatever you want. Because here's the truth. Those connect cards go directly to my email address. They don't go. There's no pass go. There's no collect 200. Miss Donna only looks at the attendance of it. She never sees what you say to me. This is your private way. Even if you're watching us online, I get connect cards from other states. I think the farthest one so far is Colorado. I don't know who's in Colorado, but what's up? Nice to see you. This is your way to talk to me directly. And here's the thing. If you've never used it, it's my chance to talk to you directly. Up here, I'm just talking to the crowd. If you'll respond, ask me a question. Give me permission to pastor you on a one-on-one level. I email most connection cards before I go to bed tonight. It's my afternoon. I go home. I put on some much more comfortable clothes, usually pajamas, and sit there with my laptop. And I talk to my church because you asked me a question and I want to respond. Some of you have got those emails. How many people have received a Sunday afternoon or Monday email from me already? There you go. There is the truth of what I am saying. I want the opportunity to tell you about the life you can live. So do me a favor. Go ahead. Punch in your connection card. If you're watching us online, catalyst302.com slash connect. Ustrists, if you guys will come forward, I want to transition right into worshiping the Lord through giving. This is not something that we do. Paul said we don't give out of compulsion. We give because God is great, because He is gracious, because He has blessed us, and He has challenged us to trust Him in our finances. The Bible uses the word tithe, and I know that's a super bad word in church. You know what the tithe was really for? If you go all the way back to the book of Genesis, I think the best example of why we should give to God is actually Cain and Abel. But I think most people get the passage wrong. Most people when they read the Cain and Abel story, think that God rejected Cain's offering because it wasn't a blood offering. I think this is wrong. There is nothing in the Cain and Abel story that said that Cain and Abel were bringing a sin sacrifice, which would require the shedding of blood. In fact, if you look at the word in the Hebrew, why did God reject Cain's offering? Because it wasn't the first fruits. That's the word that's used throughout the rest of the Old Testament. God wants our first fruits. The first of the crop went to God, and the rest went to my family. The first born of the sheep dedicated to God, the rest of the sheep for my family. That's trusting God. It's putting God first and saying, I'm going to give to God. What you'll give me with what's left over is more than I could do with all of it together. That's what I want you to do. I want you to trust God by making him first in every area of our lives. So if you would like to give electronically, you can go to catalyst302.com slash give. That'll take you directly to our secure online portal. I'll be talking about giving later on this year and help you understand how to use that. But if you're like me and you're not allowed to carry cash or a checkbook, the electronic giving works because it's on my phone. So I want to pray. I want to have the ushers collect our offering. And then we got two things to celebrate today. Heavenly Father, I thank you for your gracious gift of the Spirit. Lord, I thank you that you have given us your power, your life, your divine guidance and comfort living within us. Jesus, help us to follow your teachings. Help us to follow your word. And help us to not grieve your spirit, but obey your leading. Help us to be the hospital ship afloat amongst the lost, healing and bringing restoration and loving people to life change in your presence. Jesus, I pray you bless every single person who trusts you in their finances today, who chooses to put you first. Bless them as your word dictates in Jesus' powerful name. Amen.