Yes, Lord, it is well with us today. Lord, simply because of who you are, what you've done. Father, it is well with us, regardless of our circumstance, regardless of our troubles, regardless of our trials. Father, we know that you are with us. And as long as you are with us, Lord, it is well. Lord, thank you for just allowing us to have that strength and that knowledge in you, the soul of your Lord God, that no matter what's happening, no matter what's happening in the world around us, Father, it is well with you. Lord, I ask that you're with us today as we hear your word. I ask that it's soaked down deep within our spirits. Father, allow us just to be able to take this time with each other to worship you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. Well, good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being here and being a part of our service. Whether you are attending on campus or you're joining us online, you are indeed a member of the Catalyst family and we appreciate you being here. Now here at Catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change. Loving people to life change. So if you're listening to me this morning, I need you to know two things. Number one, I need you to know that I love you. I need you to know that this church loves you. But we love you so much that we don't want you to stay the same. And one of the ways that we grow in our relationship with Jesus and learn to become more like him is by studying his word together. So today we are going to conclude the I am a Catalyst sermon series. Now for each week of this series I've given you a key thought that kind of streams all of these messages together and here it is. A catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates change in others. A catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates change in others. I submit to you this morning this is the mission of every Christian who's ever lived to cause change in others. When we cause change to go from unsaved to saved we call that evangelism. When we cause change that goes from newly saved to mature we call that discipleship. But at the end of the day it's slowly making changes to be more like Jesus. So in order to help you I've got five steps for you for Christian life change. The first, surrender to Christ. The entire journey of being a Christian always starts with the first step of surrendering your life to Jesus. Understanding that he is king, that he is savior, that he is lord, that we receive his forgiveness and submit to his authority. That leads to step number two, get baptized. We baptize in this church because Jesus and the disciples baptized in the New Testament. Jesus himself was baptized by John the Baptist and then of course we also looked at how to baptism was played out in the Old Testament in the dedication to God. So once we give our lives to Christ we are dedicated to his service. Then the third step, live by the spirit. Now that we are Christians and we are dedicated to service we have access to a supernatural divine power that helps us live a more godly life. That's the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Last week we talked about the fourth step, join in community. You can be saved on an island by yourself with no other humans. So that proverbial question, how does the person on an island by themselves get saved? Because God can do all things. However, God does not design us to be in isolation from one another. In fact my wife made an amazing Facebook post this week. I'm going to quote the amazing pastor and apostle Tony Evans. So Tony Evans made a quote, I'm not going to quote him. I'm not going to get it exact but I'll give you the gist. What he said was, is you're right, salvation is absolutely an individual thing. You can be saved on your own. But if you were married and you never invested in your relationship, you might still be married but your relationship might not be great. Right? There is a difference between that one time salvation and our relationship as the ecclesia or the community of God. And then today we're going to talk about the fourth and final step, partnering in ministry. So here's what I need you to understand. Here's the single thing that's going to underline the whole sermon today. Everybody in this room is a minister. Everybody watching online and listening to this sermon, even if you're listening to it after the fact, if you are a Christian, you by definition are a minister. Now, you might have a ministry that looks different than mine. Public speaking is the number one biggest fear of all humans. Right? So you might not like the kind of ministry that I do, which is up here teaching publicly. But thankfully for you, that's not the only kind of ministry that's out there. So what I need you to do, and since I'm going to speak primarily to those who are in this room and anybody who's watching who lives within the blessed nation of America. I love our country. I'm blessed to live in a country where I have the freedom to teach the word of God. But here's one problem the American church has. We are somehow trained to believe that the people up here are more special than the people down here. Somehow we've given into a mentality that professional pastors, we're the real ministers of the church and the everyday believer, the average body of Christ, the layman. If you guys are used to that term, right? The layman of the church, the church body, is not actually ministers. I'm going to show you today that that's a lie. That all of us are ministers. But we're going to do it in different ways. So before I get into that, let me answer a couple quick questions. First question is, what is ministry? What is ministry? Well, here's your answer. In a Christian context, ministry is an action or activity performed to accomplish the mission of making disciples. That means, guess what? The parking team that you met outside this morning, Mr. Lee and his team working super hard to make sure that we can park as many people in the parking lot as possible. You know why that's important? Because it's really simple. If somebody's not paying attention to the parking lot, then they're not paying attention to the parking lot. If somebody's not paying attention to the parking lot, then they're not paying attention to the parking lot. So, what is ministry? Ministry is the mission of making disciples. Is that important? Because it's really simple. If somebody can't park their car, they can't come in and join us for worship. Right? Also, there's a lot of money sitting out there in cars. We want to make sure that we don't dingy up each other's cars, that things don't fall out of the sky and break our windshields. Why? Because I would like you to come back to church. Can you imagine what would happen if every single time you came to church, something fell out of the sky and broke your windshield? I think somebody would go, maybe God doesn't want me to go to that church anymore. That's a ministry. Why? Because that is a part of our Sunday morning strategy. The ushers, Mr. Dan and his friends, sitting right out here outside these doors, making sure that you get the materials that you need to pass out every Sunday morning. That's a ministry. You know why? Because it's a tool used to further the accomplishment of making disciples. The guest services team, our C group leaders, Pastor Paul, youth leaders, those are all ministries because they're all helping to accomplish this goal. Do you know what I would paint with the Y brush? Ministry is not just preaching sermons. Ministry is not just baptizing people. Ministry is not just teaching Sunday school. You know one ministry that always gets overlooked? It's like the ugly, dirty, living under the stairs, Harry Potter stepchild of all ministry. Administration. Did you know that that's a gift of the Holy Spirit? Administration. Do you know, and I'm just going to brag for a second, do you know how hard Ms. Donna works during the week? Come on. Come on. Like, can we just be real for a second? Keeping up with... You ask my wife, my ADHD is going in five different directions and Donna's trying to write down all the notes going, what are we doing next? Administration is a gift. Ms. Donna is a gift to this church because of what she does. It's okay to say. So I say all of that not just to celebrate several people who are amazing in this church, but I need you to understand that by the end of today, I'm going to have you looking deep inside. You've got to find something that you can do that helps accomplish this mission. So let's ask the next question. Who is supposed to do ministry in a Christian church? And here's your answer. There is no class of persons in the New Testament that are authorized to do ministry. All Christians are expected to be mission-oriented. All Christians are expected to be mission-oriented. You ever heard the phrase, every Marine is a rifleman? Every Marine is a rifleman. What's the first thing the Marines teach you how to do? Shoot a rifle. Why? Because no matter where you are, no matter what you're doing, every Marine is a rifleman. Every Marine can get the job done. Every Christian is a minister. Why? Because every Christian can help get the job done. So with that as our context, I'd like to ask you to turn in your Bibles with me to the book of Acts. You're going to find that in the beginning of the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts. The fifth book in the New Testament. While you're turning or tapping there, let me give you a little bit of background. Pop quiz, who wrote the book of Acts? Luke. That's right. For bonus points, what was Luke's day job? He was a doctor or a physician. That's right. What was Luke's hobby? He was a historian. So Luke's day job is a doctor. What was Luke's religion? Is he Jew or Gentile? Nope. He's the only known Gentile author of Scripture. And here's one that you're probably going to question me, but I promise this fact is true. Luke wrote more of the New Testament than any other singular author. Now you're going to look at me and you're going to go, wait a minute. I thought Paul wrote more letters. Totally true. Paul did write more letters. But he didn't write more text. If you take the sheer weight and volume of Luke and Acts, it represents more than the sheer weight of volume of all of Paul's letters combined. So what does that tell us? It tells us that Luke wrote more letters than Paul wrote more letters than Luke. So the book of Acts, the book of Acts, the book of Acts, the book of Acts, the book of Acts combined. So what does that tell me? That tells me that what the Holy Spirit has to say through Luke is foundationally important to who you and I are as New Testament Christians. Because Luke, the Gentile doctor slash historian, contributed more to the New Testament than any other singular author. By volume. Now those of you who are Paul fans, you're totally right. Paul still wrote more individual books. But weight wise, Luke's writing is heavier. But weight wise, Luke's writing is heavier. And so what does that tell me? That tells me that what the Holy Spirit has to say through Luke is foundationally important to who you and I are as New Testament Christians. So the book of Acts chapter 6, Luke chapter 6, this is verses 1 through 7. So we're going to read it first. Then we're going to go back and break it down. Luke chapter 6 starting in verse 1, In those days, when the number of disciples was increasing, the Hellenistic Jews among them complained against the Hebraic Jews because their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution of food. So the 12 gathered in the house of the Lord. So the 12 gathered all the disciples together and said, it would not be right for us to neglect the ministry of the word of God in order to wait on tables. Brothers and sisters, choose seven men from among you who are known to be full of the spirit and wisdom and we will turn this responsibility over to them. And we'll give our attention to prayer and the ministry of the word. This proposal pleased the whole group. They chose Stephen, a man full of faith in the Holy Spirit. Also, Philip, Procarus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenes, and Nicholas from Antioch, a convert to Judaism. They presented these men to the apostles who prayed and laid their hands on them. Best part of the story, so the word of God spread. The number of disciples in Jerusalem increased rapidly and a large number of priests became obedient to the faith. Now, just to give you a background context here, let's talk about what's happening in the New Testament story. So, how many years of silence between the Old Testament and the New Testament? 400. For 400 years, God did not speak to His people. Then, God sends an angel to the temple and appears to a man named Zechariah. Zechariah is ministering in the temple and he says, Zechariah, you will have a son, except my mic's over here. That was awesome. You will have a son. Your name is John. John's going to be the forerunner to the Messiah. Then he sends an angel to Mary, to Joseph. Merry Christmas. Jesus is here. Jesus grows up. Jesus ministers. Jesus goes through His Passion Week. He dies. He resurrects. He teaches on earth for 40 days post-resurrection, pre-ascension. Now, we have no recording of what He said during those 40 days, but I'm pretty sure that if you saw the man who claimed to be God, who resurrected from the dead, we're going to talk about that at Easter, I would listen to what He had to say. Then, Jesus ascends and He says, don't go anywhere yet, y'all. You're not ready yet. Wait for the gift my Father's promised. Acts chapter 2, the Holy Spirit falls. In churches, you and I know it today is born. So, in Acts chapter 3, 4, and 5, we see that the Christian church struggles as it begins to grow. And then we see one of the struggles come to a head here in Acts chapter 6. So, the first thing I need you to see is, in those days, those are the days I just told you about, the early church is beginning. We are beginning to do ministry. What happens? When the number of disciples was increasing. Is this a good thing or a bad thing? It's totally a good thing. Does it cause a problem? Yes, it does. So, can we just admit to ourselves that sometimes good things cause problems? Right? This is a church growth problem. The problem is not that they're not growing. The problem is not that they're stagnant. The problem is not that they're not passionate. No. The problem comes directly out of the fact that they are growing. When the number of disciples was increased, and then we get two different groups here. The Hellenistic Jews and the Hebraic Jews. Or I could say, the Greek Jews and the Jewish Jews. So, Hellenistic refers to Hellenistic culture or Greek, mainline Greek culture. There were Greeks who converted to worship the one true God of the Jews. In the Gospel of John, they're called God-fearers. So, they're not born Jews. See, Jew can be an ethnicity. You can be born with Jewish blood and hair. So, Hellenism or following Yahweh, the God of the Old Testament, is also a religion. So, Hellenistic Jews are Greek Jews. Hebraic Jews are Jewish Jews. Now, in this Hellenistic Jewish category, you also have people who were born Jewish, but live like Greeks. Okay? So, there's a little bit of tension here. And what happens? The Hellenistic Jews complained. Isn't that always what happens when things go wrong? I love complaining. You know why? Number one, because complaining tells you something's wrong. If nobody brings it up, then you don't know it's a problem. If nobody comes to you and says, Pastor, such and such did not work last week. Then how do I know how to fix it? So, I'm not going to point out who it was, but somebody texted me last week and let me know that the sound on the live stream was all kinds of ragged out. Well, I don't know if it's really a secret to anybody, but I don't get to watch the live stream in real time. I'm standing up here currently. I go back home and in the afternoons I go back and watch it and I see how our church did. But I can't hear that. If someone doesn't text myself or Paul or Frank in the back, then we don't know how to fix it. So, I don't want you to see this word complaining as a bad thing. I want you to see this word complaining as they're shining a light on a problem. What is that problem? Well, because the Hellenistic Jews complained against the Hebraic Jews. So, now there's tension within the body of Christ in Acts chapter 6. Didn't take us very long, did it? For a couple of Christians to get upset with each other. Because their widows are being overlooked in the daily distribution of food. So, here's what I need you to understand. In the early church in Jerusalem, they had a food pantry ministry. And this food pantry ministry distributed food to those who could not work or could not support themselves. Is that a good idea? Yes, it is. So, does the problem lie with the food pantry ministry? No, I think the mission of a food pantry is a super good idea. But, there's a growth problem in the way that the growth is going. And that growth problem is creating a tension problem between two different groups of Christians. If I could rephrase this, I could say, in those days when the number of Christians in Wilmington was increasing, the Baptists complained against the Methodists because their people were being overlooked at the food pantry. Does that make more sense now? Now you see exactly what's going on. Nobody's going to argue that the two groups aren't actually Christian. No one's going to argue that the food pantry ministry is a bad idea. But we've got an execution problem. The execution problem is creating a unity or a brotherhood, a brother ship problem. And it has to do with the distribution of food. Now the other thing I need you to understand is this word right here, widows. So, in the New Testament, widows were completely dependent on outside people to care for them. That's why the Jewish law established that once a parent got so old, the children were responsible for them until they graduated to heaven. Why? Because widows were not allowed to work. They were not allowed to own property. There was no social security system. There was no stimulus. The Romans didn't give out stemmy stems. Like that did not happen. So, widows were the weakest class. Not in strength, but in substance. They needed to be cared for. And here we see that the early Christian church is already dividing the widows into two categories. The Greek style widows and the Jewish style widows. And the Greek style widows, the Greeks are complaining to me like, y'all! And if I could translate this back into our Baptist-Methodist problem, if you went to the food pantry and you noticed that all the Methodist widows got to be in the front of the line, right? And then only after we served all the Methodist widows, if there's anything left, we'll give it to y'all Baptists. Do you feel the sense of injustice now? It wasn't the fact that we looked at whose need was greater. We looked at Greeks over Jews and Jews over Greeks and started to divide the church. So now, let's go on to verse 2. So now you understand the problem. So the 12, who are the 12? The 12 are the 11 that Jesus personally My mic just go out? Well there it is. 12, no it can't be batteries, we just charged them. 12 are the 11 that Jesus chose, plus if you go to Acts chapter 1, Matthias is chosen to replace Judas. That's who they are. The 12 represent the governing authority of the church at the time. They're in charge of the church currently. They gathered all the disciples, guess what? That's everybody. See, this sentence really points it out well. If this is the 12, the 12 gathered all the disciples, it doesn't make sense to say the 12 gathered themselves. Right? How many people got saved in Acts chapter 2? Three thousand. Three thousand people got saved when Peter preached. No pressure, right? So all the disciples gathered together and they said, here's what the 12 said to the whole church. It would not be right for us to neglect the ministry of the word of God in order to wait on tables. Now I need to point out that they're not being mean and they're not being arrogant. But in an English translation, it sounds that way, doesn't it? It sounds like they're putting down the job of waiting on tables. Right? It would not be right for us to neglect this to do this. So here's the first thing I need you to understand. This waiting on tables is a very literal translation of a Greek word, diakonos. In fact, does anybody know what English word we get from diakonos? Deacon. The word deacon comes from the same root word, diakonos. Or diakonoi if there's more than one of them. Literally, it means one who serves others. In context, what do you call the person when you go to a restaurant and you order your food, they're called a server. Why? Because they are one who serves. That's what the word diakonos literally means. So what the 12 are saying is, listen, Jesus left us the responsibility to pass on his teachings. By Acts chapter 6, there's no written Bible yet. The New Testament is literally unfolding in real time. The apostle Paul, probably not saved and saved yet. He's still saw hunting Christians, not Paul planting churches. So by the time of Acts chapter 6, what is the only way to access the teachings of Jesus? These 12 right here. They're the only ones who have the teachings that Jesus left behind. So, why is it important that we have to prioritize it? Because they couldn't do what you and I get to do today. They couldn't just turn, open the book and have the teachings of Jesus. These are the only 12 who can pass it on. So they've got a monumentous job and they've got to prioritize this job. Because what happens if we start waiting on tables and we forget to teach what Jesus taught? Then we take the heart right out of ministry. So the first thing I need you to understand is this is a choosing of priority. It's not an insult down here. However, look at what they said. It would not be right for us to neglect the ministry of the word, meaning I'm going to prioritize the teaching of what Jesus left behind. I'm going to prioritize the teaching of God. And it wouldn't be right for me to give up that priority to do this. So watch what they do in the next verse. That's why you've got to take them together. Brothers and sisters, this is Adelphos. It means everybody. All y'all. That's the new international bill version. This is, hey, all y'all. Choose seven men from the seven among you. So the church of Jerusalem has a growth problem. They got a ministry problem. Their ministry is so effective that they're reaching out into all these different groups. But now the groups are not being served well. It's amazing how just a little bit of lack of excellence can start creating friction between brothers and sisters. People who all want to worship Jesus. But we're not really sure the ministry is being executed in this, right? So the twelve could have just said, okay, you and you and you and you, you, you and you, you, you. Y'all go fix that. That would have been a very autocratic way to solve the problem. This is not the way the church of Jesus Christ solves the problem. The twelve said, okay, fine. This is what I love. I can't stop teaching because I've got to pass on what Jesus gave me. But you know what, Kim? You're totally right. This ministry needs to be handled better. So here's my solution. Church, pick seven men from among you. And they will make the food pantry their number one priority. And we'll keep making teaching our number one priority. And in doing this, both things get done with excellence. It solves the friction problem. It solves the unity problem. It continues the growth curve. I don't want to call growth a problem, but sometimes growth can create challenges. So the biblical solution to problems created by growth in ministry is the appointment of more ministers. And where did those ministers come from? Not up here. We didn't just say, okay, pastor, like you get a full time salary. I know you're already working 45 hours a week, but like that's what we pay you for. So y'all just get up a little earlier, make breakfast for the widows, then get back to your prayer and your teaching. That's not what that said. It said, okay, church, we hear, this is what the 12 are saying. Church, we hear you. We agree with you that this ministry needs to be made better. We agree with you that the food pantry is important and that the Greeks, and here's the other thing, they're creating a racial tension if they don't fix this problem. So get out ahead of this problem and fix it and guard the church's unity. They're saying, but this problem shouldn't distract from what Jesus left for us to do. So the solution is, we're going to raise up seven people and they're going to be over just that ministry. The food pantry ministry is going to have seven ministry heads. Also notice it's not one. Do you notice that? They didn't just pick one person. They were like, Paul can do it. You know? Seven people. Choose seven men from among you and here's where it gets real. Who are known to be. This is your reputation in the church. So before I read the next line, what does your reputation in our church look like today? If we had a growth problem and the elders came to the church and said, okay guys, the elders are tapped out with the amount of energy we're outputting running the church. But we have this other ministry that needs to be run better. Church, choose from among yourselves people who you think are going to be good at this. Known to be, what's the first thing? Full of the spirit. Well I'm glad we dealt with that already. Being full of the spirit is not just being indwelled, but being led by the power of the spirit and wisdom. Now this word wisdom doesn't mean Wright's fortune cookies in his spare time. That's not what it means. This word wisdom means skilled in the art of or execution of and then whatever the task is. So if someone were a carpenter and they were good at being a carpenter, you could say that they have wisdom in carpentry. Ben, who's up here and he plays piano, incredibly skilled at playing the piano. Ben has wisdom in carpentry. All of the vocalists who are just up here singing have wisdom in singing. It's having the knowledge and skills of a particular area. So when the 12 come to the church and say, okay guys I want you to pick 7 men. And I want you to choose people who number one are totally full of the Holy Ghost and want to serve Jesus, but number two are actually skilled at what we're asking them to do. Let me give you a great example. Frank, let's say our softball team is short, one player. No, no, no, because that's the way this is the one, I'm up here making the jokes. So for those of you watching online, our sound technician does happen to be a couple inches shorter than me and wants to know why I'm making a short joke. I'm making a short joke because I'm the one with the mic and then he reaches over like he's going to hit my mute button. I'll tell you this right now. If our softball team needs one extra player, there is one human being who is in this room right now who does not have the wisdom of softball. My wife can tell you I tried to play church softball once. I wrecked, which foot was it? I don't remember. Or the tendons in my ankle and was on crutches for like months. I was a youth pastor preaching on crutches. It was amazing. So I can tell you right now, I don't have, I might be full of the spirit, but I don't have the wisdom of softball. So I am not the right choice for that job. See, this is why it's okay to admit that we're not good at certain things. This is why it's okay to admit I've got strengths here, but I don't have strengths here. Well guess what? Somebody else is going to have strengths over here and not have strengths down here. That's why we have to choose people who are full of the spirit. We have the Holy Spirit within us. We want to serve God. And we're also full of wisdom. We're actually skilled at the thing we need execution in. So what do they need? They need people who are good at business. Good at the execution and allocation of resources for the needy. In this case, these resources are food. And then what happens? We will turn this responsibility over to them. So the twelve said, listen, obviously at this point, the twelve are in charge of the food distribution ministry. But what they're saying is, I can't run this and do this well at the same time. Give me some men who you as the church believe are totally full of the Holy Spirit and totally better than Pastor Bill at softball and we're going to let them run the food pantry ministry. We turn it over to them. So it makes it their ministry, not my ministry. Just like the parking lot is Mr. Lee's ministry, not my ministry. Ushering, ushing, I like ushing, I like turning into a verb. Ushing is Dan's ministry, not my ministry. Worship is their ministry, not my ministry, even though I try to help. When we turn the responsibility over, we're releasing into ministry these seven people. So let's go forward to verse four. And we will give our attention to prayer and ministry. The ministry of the word. Those two things. Those are the two things that I'm supposed to dedicate the majority of my time to, or the priority of my time. How I do this is I write next Sunday's sermon tomorrow. Just in case anybody was wondering. I spend my Monday and I only do two things. I'll follow up with you from our connection cards. Anything that doesn't get done on Sunday gets done on Monday. And then I write next Sunday's sermon on Mondays. The very first thing I get done. Why? Because it's the most important job for me to do first. So I make sure that it takes as long as it takes. By Monday night, when I go to sleep, next Sunday's sermon is ready to go. Now this coming Sunday is going to be super easy because our kids have an amazing Palm Sunday program. And so I don't actually have to write a sermon. All I got to do is be ready to help support the kids. So shameless little plug, Kid Musical next Sunday, you don't want to miss it. But this, I've also challenged Paul. Prioritize the writing of his messages for remix. You put this first. And then we filter in all the fun stuff in the office. And in doing this, we prioritize the execution of ministry and we authorize the releasing of new ministers. So now let's go to verse five. This proposal pleased the whole group. Congratulations, church. You approve. Pleased the whole group. And here they chose, and here's why this is important. Stephen, as a man full of faith in the Holy Spirit, he's going to become important because in the next chapter, he's going to get killed. Stephen becomes the first Christian martyr in the New Testament. He faces off with the Sanhedrin and they kill him. He also gave him a tongue lashing before they took him out. So Stephen's sermon is amazing. So this also introduces Stephen. Next, Philip, this man takes the gospel to the Samaritans in Acts chapter seven. So Luke is introducing two of his really big characters that can do something else. But there's something that is very important that you might not see. Because I don't know about you, I used to have a friend named Stephen. I used to have a friend named Philip. Anybody got a friend named Procarus? Anybody? Anybody got to go to school with a guy named Nikanor? No. See, some of these names, Timon, Parmenes, Nicholas, I've heard of him, got a friend, Merry Christmas, right? Some of these names are familiar to us and some of them are not. But all of these names have one thing in common. They're all Greek names. In fact, look at the last guy. This guy, Nicholas from Antioch, it straight up says he's a convert to Judaism. This dude's all Greek all day. Why is that important? Think of who was being slighted in the daily distribution of food. It was the Greek widows who were being overlooked in order for food to go to the Hebraic widows. So, what does the church do? The church says, okay, if you guys think that the food pantry ministry is mistreating the Baptists and prioritizing the Methodists, then here's what we're going to do. We're going to put seven Baptists in charge of it. Because then you won't be able to accuse them of not prioritizing their own people. We're going to pick seven men full of the Holy Spirit who have integrity, who are going to do the job right, but they also had a lot of leadership wisdom. And you would miss that if you didn't know that Procarus, Nicanor, Parmenus, these are all Greek names. Which means the church as a whole was very wise. They said, listen, we want the food pantry ministry to work. We want our unity to stay together. We don't want our Greek and Hebrew Christians to be in fighting with each other. So, we're going to pick seven guys who have Greek heritage or one who's straight up Greek all day. And y'all are going to run this ministry. Because you know what? The Baptists are probably not going to complain when the ministry is all being run by Baptists. They're going to go, well, wait a minute. I guess we have a food... Now, maybe they need to get more money, more food into the food pantry. Maybe they need a better distribution. Thank you. I was going to say disassociation. I knew that was wrong. That's not what we want to do. A distribution system. But that's why we picked seven men who have wisdom. So, for those of you who have wisdom in business and you're not really sure if your skill set fits in the church, I guarantee you it does. I guarantee you it does. Especially living in our country in our day and age. Bill has to oversee finances. Our church has to pay taxes. There's laws that we have to follow. Everything that comes up. So, having a good quality business person, having good business ethics is absolutely important to the execution of ministry. Not just because we want to look good on a spreadsheet. I mean, I love a spreadsheet. Give me a good spreadsheet. That's a good day. Right? But it's not just about the quality of the spreadsheet. It's about the quality of ministry. These seven men get released to run the food pantry ministry and they fix the unity problems. Let's keep going. Verse 6. They presented these men, so we bring the seven men up, they presented them to the apostles who prayed and laid their hands on them. The laying on of hands symbolically transfers authority to ministry leaders. This is sometimes looked at as installation. Sometimes it's looked at as ordination. But there is a moment where those who hold the spiritual authority, which at this point was the twelve, the church put forth seven people and said, we believe these seven dudes, they're going to get it done and they're going to get it done with excellence and they're going to fix our problems. So the apostles lay their hands on them as a symbol of transferring authority and then put them in charge of the food pantry ministry. Go forward again. Watch what happens. So the word of God spread. So in Acts chapter 6, verse 1, we're having a growth created unity problem and ministry problem. The church creates a solution and what happens? We just keep on growing. That's what I want for our church. So the word of God spread. What happens? The number of disciples in Jerusalem increased rapidly. It didn't just grow. It grew quickly. It grew exponentially. And a large number of priests became obedient to the faith. Now, these priests are not necessarily Pharisees. They may not be members of the Jewish Council or the Sanhedrin. That's the 70. That's like the Jewish Supreme Court. But you know what these guys are? These guys are people who spend all day teaching the word. So what did we also get out of this whole ministry problem? The disciples said it would not be right for us not to prioritize the teaching of the word. And what happens? We get a whole bunch of more people saved who also know how to teach the word. Don't overlook this last part. When we put more people in ministry, more people in ministry come in the door to get put more people in ministry. Then more come in the door and you put more... Do you notice how that works? It's amazing. Being in the body of Christ is amazing when you watch people get released into ministries that they're effective at. That they have wisdom in. Because then the whole body grows. And as the whole body grows, more people come in who have different skills, who add to more ministries. And it just begins to back build and back build and back build. And more people became obedient to the faith. This is what I want to see in our church. Right? Now, we have a growth problem. You know what our growth problem is? There are empty chairs. That's our challenge. We should be reaching more people. How do we do that? Well, I would argue let's just go back to the question. What is ministry? What is ministry? In a Christian context, ministry is any action. Any action or activity performed to accomplish the mission of making disciples. So now, that I've shown you the Acts chapter 6 example, I'm going to ask you, what's your ministry? You're here. You're with us. Last week we talked about being on the team, right? There's a difference between fans in the stands and players on the field. The players on the field who are the ones who are in the game. Players on the field are the ones who work with the coaches and we follow the playbook and we win. I tell you this, I'm a winner. I love to win. I also hate to lose. You can ask my wife and children. That was not the right time to giggle. Thank you so much. I love to win. I love to win. Have a good strategy. Work with a good team. Yesterday's work day was amazing. Thank you to everyone who came, who helped make our outside work, our inside work. Did you know, we had so many people come to the work day yesterday. All the candy that's been donated has already been stuffed into plastic eggs. We had so many people come, get on the team and get in the game. We got more done yesterday than we originally planned and I think we still got out on time. I think we did. We got more work done and we still got out on time. That's what happens when we work as a team. So my question to you today is what is your ministry? What is it that God is moving you to do? So I'm going to ask Ben to come back up to the piano. And Paul, if you will put the, or Eric, if you'll put the connect card slide on the screen please. He built one that has like the QR code and everything in it. I just need to come back. I need to slay a dragon real quick. I need to remind everybody that ministry is not just, okay I'll put it this way. Ministry is my job, but it's all of your callings. As Christians, you are called to ministry. So I want to ask you if you're watching online, I don't think you can tap on the QR code. It's not a button. But if you go to Catalyst302.com Catalyst302.com slash connect. I want you to pull up your connection card. Thank you. But I want to ask a very important question before you find out. What is your ministry in this church? What are you doing? What activity are you helping to accomplish that is a part of making disciples? There's all sorts of opportunities. If you are not actively a part of a ministry team, then at the very bottom of your connection card, there's a check box that says I want to serve somewhere. I want you to check that box. At the very bottom of your connection card, there's also an input field where you can type. If you're good at something, maybe we don't know about it yet. You might have an amazing what do you have wisdom in? And I mean more than my level of wisdom in softball. I need you to have real wisdom. What are you good at? What are you called to? What do you enjoy doing? Because what if I told you that what you enjoy doing can be a ministry? What if I told you that what you love to do could be done as an act of worship to God? That that gift, that skill, that ability, that thing, when you put it in the hands of the Holy Spirit, becomes ministry in and of itself. It becomes this amazing, beautiful gift that you give to God. So I want you to pull out your connection card. Put in your name. If you haven't filed it yet, I also am trying to fill in everybody's cell phone numbers. So if you could put your cell phone number in down at the bottom. When I went to send a text message to the church yesterday, there's 50 of you that we don't have your cell phone number. I don't know which 50 it is, but I went to send a text message to everyone that is a regular tender and a member and I found out, oh guess what? There's 50 of you that we don't have your cell phone. So if you haven't filed your connection card yet, please put your cell phone down at the bottom. If you already have, you can send me an email, pastorbill at catalyst302.com is fine. But it would help us to fill things in. So while you're finishing with your connection card, Dan, I'm going to ask you to bring your team forward. I want to transition to being able to worship the Lord in giving. You can go to catalyst302.com slash give, or you'll be able to give right here today with these baskets. But before we do that, I just need to remind you of something. Our opportunity to give an offering is another opportunity of worship. Now I was talking with Dan this morning as the way the ushers execute. We would never invite someone into church and tell them everybody else can sing, but you need to sit. You can't do that. Everybody else can pray, but you need to sit. You can't do that. That's for us, not for you. And yet, when it comes to giving, sometimes we forget that the simple passing of that basket is offering the opportunity to worship. We're not here to make you. We're not here to convince you. We're not here to guilt you. But in the same way that I would never tell you, you can't come in the church and not be offered the opportunity for prayer, not be offered the opportunity for worship, not be offered the opportunity to learn. It's unfair of us if we don't offer you the opportunity to give. And discover what happens when you trust God and put him first in the area of your finances. So if you're not a regular giver, I want to give you a challenge. I want you to give something. And I don't know numbers, and as the leadership can attest, I don't ever get to see everybody's giving. That's why I get to talk up here with boldness is because I don't know. I don't know how many of you already give and how many of you don't. That's not my responsibility. Thankfully, somebody else gets to look after that monster. But here's the three things when somebody asks me what's most important about worshiping God in your finances. I say this. I worship God in my finances by giving consistently. I give sacrificially and I give worshipfully. Don't give money just because church is your club. Don't do that. You're cheapening your worship. I want you to give consistently because we worship God in this way. So I'm going to pray and then I'm going to ask that the ushers, they're going to so the center section, they're going to pass across. You guys out there on the sides, we're going to pass down and come back. And it's all going to make it to the end. It's going to make that sound effect too, I promise. Alright, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we worship you in song. We've worshiped you in prayer. We've worshiped you in studying your word. And Lord, we are going to worship you in giving of your blessings that you've given to us and give them back to you. Father, I pray that you bless every single person who trusts you today, who trusts you and puts you first in their finances. Bless them for giving to you. In Jesus' name, Amen.