Lord Jesus, we give you all honor and all glory in this house today. Father, I ask that you be lifted high above all things. Lord, prepare our hearts for the word. Saturate us with your presence. Be with us and among us today. In Jesus' name, Amen. Amen. Amen. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. I am a catalyst. Well good morning! Good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being here. This is your first time. Welcome to our church family. Whether you're joining us here on campus or you're watching this service online, we appreciate you worshiping with us and being part of the Catalyst community. Now here at Catalyst we're about one thing and one thing only, and that is loving people to life change. So if you're here, you're listening to this message, maybe even after the service has taken place, we want you to know that we love you, but we don't want to leave you wherever we met you. We believe that every single person is on a journey with Jesus and we can all take one step forward. One of the ways that we do that is by studying God's Word together. So this morning we are going to continue our teaching series entitled, I am a Catalyst. Again, one of the things I love about the name of our church is it's a noun and it's a verb. Catalyst is the name of our church, but it's also the calling to which we've all been called. So let me go ahead and give you the key thought for this teaching series. Key thought, a catalyst is a person who causes or accelerates change in others. This is our calling church. This is what we are all called to do. Our church name happens to be perfect to fit in with this calling. We are to be people who accelerate change in others. Now, as someone pointed out in the first week of this series, in chemistry you can have a positive catalyst or a catalyst that has a positive effect on a change or you can have a negative catalyst. Let's be the former and not the latter. We need to be the people who draw people to Jesus and not push them away. So in order to be a catalyst, I want to give you your five key steps or five steps to Christian life change. Here's the first one, surrender to Christ. In order to be a Christian, there must be a singular moment where you place your faith in Christ, you are forgiven of your sins and you start that Christian journey. Step two is we get baptized. Why do we do that? Because it's in the Bible and because we talked about it three weeks ago. If you don't know why we do that, put that on your connect card. It's in a service I would love. It's like one of my favorite conversations. Step three, we need to live by the spirit. We need to realize as Christians, we have access to the third member of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit. And he gives us the ability to live in a way that our natural human abilities don't. The one we're going to look at today is join in community. No Christian is an island. Yes, salvation is an individual thing. We don't get saved as groups, we get saved as individuals. But in the same way that your stomach might be an individual part of your body, but it is still nonetheless a part of your body. Mine loves ice cream. John, where you at? Come on. Yeah, give me that amen right there. Come on. Ice cream is a food group in my house. Right? Yeah, you can have multiple flavors within that food group. That doesn't matter how much my stomach happens to like ice cream, it's still connected to the rest of my cardiovascular system, as my doctor keeps telling me. And third, which we'll look at next week, is partner in ministry. Every Christian is designed to be an ambassador for Jesus, a gospel carrier. Our challenge is each one of us to do these five steps, and then help someone else do these five steps. And then the two of you together help two more people. And do you see the exponential way the church works? It works organically because each one of us carry these steps. Now today we're going to look specifically at the step of joining in community, and I hope to answer the question, what does that mean? So in order to try to show you what I believe it means to be a part of a church community, I don't think there is a better authority than Jesus himself. So I want to look at Jesus on the church. What did Jesus say? So if you'll turn in your Bibles with me, turn or tap, to Matthew chapter 16. Matthew is really easy to find, he's the first book in the New Testament. While you're turning there, a little bit of background, Matthew was one of the original twelve called disciples of Jesus. Does anybody other than my son happen to know what Matthew's other name is? Starts with an L. Levi, yeah I heard it, that's great. Matthew, his Jewish name would have been Levi. Anybody know what his day job was before he became an apostle? Tax collector, that's right. So that made him super popular amongst the Jews, right? Yep, just like anybody who works the IRS can tell you. Everybody loves people who take tax money. Now Matthew was actually a very unloved Jew. In his day, the Jews who collected taxes were considered traitors against their own people because they collected money from Jews and gave it to pagan Romans, the same Romans who were oppressing the Jewish people. So when Jesus calls a man like Matthew to his inner circle, Jesus is making a very powerful statement that I am here to be the Messiah for everybody, not just the people that you like. Matthew would have been a very controversial choice. In Matthew's Gospel, Matthew tries to show his audience, i.e. the people reading his book, that Jesus is the promised Messiah of the Jewish people. So Matthew's Gospel has a very Jewish flavor to it, whereas that's different from Luke's Gospel. Luke was not a Jew, he was a Gentile, so it's got a very Gentile or Greek flavor to it. So in Matthew, we're going to go to chapter 16. The first thing I want to do is read verses 13 through 18. Then I want to go back and kind of unpack it. So this is Matthew chapter 16, starting in verse 13. Here we go. When Jesus came to the region of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, who do people say the Son of Man is? They replied, some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and still others Jeremiah, or, excuse me, still others say Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. Verse 15, but what about you, he asked? Who do you say I am? Simon Peter answered, you're the Messiah, Son of the living God. Jesus replied, blessed are you, Simon son of Jonah, for this was not revealed to you by flesh and blood, but by my Father in heaven. And I tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overcome it. This is Jesus speaking, and specifically speaking about building his church. Now, before we move off of that, I first want to give you a definition of a Greek word. The Greek word that we use for church is ecclesia. The Greek word is ecclesia. E, and I really hate spelling, and I'm really bad at it. So it's E-K-K-L-E-S-I-A. And in a New Testament understanding, ecclesia is a group called together for a purpose. I gave you just a couple different references here. So here's the first thing I need you to understand about this term, ecclesia. It is a group who's called together for a purpose, not specifically a Christian purpose. In fact, in the book of Acts, and I believe it's the chapter 7 reference, you see a group of merchants who are called together to the town square to oppose Paul and his ministry. They were an ecclesia. They were a club. They were a group. In some instances, they were more of a lynch mob or a gang, right? So the first definition of ecclesia isn't inherently Christian, but it does carry a very important definition, which is the group contained shares a similar purpose. Firemen are a group. They serve a function and purpose. Police officers are a group. They serve a function and a purpose. Door dash drivers are a group. They serve a... Do you see what I'm saying? Once you understand... If I give you the name of a group, then everyone in that group is sharing that purpose. So that's the first New Testament definition for the word ecclesia, is a group called together for a purpose. The second use of the word is the universal group of all believers. Now, this one is a specifically Christian definition. There are times in the New Testament, Matthew 16, which is where we are today, also Acts 20 and Ephesians 5, where the word ecclesia carries the original definition, a group called together for a purpose. But the usage in the term is talking about all Christians everywhere. So has anybody ever grown up in church hearing the term big C church? So when we say big C church, we're talking about the word church in English with the big letter C, not the little letter C, which means all Christians who've ever lived everywhere at any time. We're all part of the Church of Jesus. We're all part of the universal ecclesia. So, called together for a purpose. Second definition is a universal group of all believers. And the third definition is a local group of believers. We are an ecclesia. You notice how everyone, we are a group called together for a purpose. We're all called together here to worship Jesus. We are also part of the big universal Church of God. But we are part of a third group, the best looking Christians in Delaware. Exactly. See? Some of you are elbowing your neighbor, you're totally right. Do you see how all three of those definitions work together? So when we study this word church, first we have to remember, Jesus didn't speak English. Jesus lived, he was born probably about 4 BC or BCE. When they originally calculated the date of Jesus' birth, they didn't do the math exactly right. So, I don't know about you, but I always forget how old I am. So I have to look at the year and do the math. So if all of a sudden we shifted, Gary, I'd be lost. I'd be really lost. So, Jesus was born about 4 BC. He lived until 30 AD or 30 CE. And in his time, there were groups called together for a purpose. In his ministry, the universal Church of Jesus Christ was born and individual churches. In fact, you in your Bible right now, you have letters written to those individual churches. We look at all of Paul's letters. They were written to the church at Ephesus. What book is that? Ephesians? Church of Philippi. Philippians? Church at Corinth. Church at Rome. Those are all ecclesias, part of the big ecclesia. So, does everybody catch that? So that's the groundwork I want you to understand. Whenever we study the word church, you first must understand which definition is the author using. Now, as I showed you two slides ago, Jesus is using the universal term, right? A group called together for a purpose. Thank you. Jesus is using the second definition, a universal group of all believers, Matthew 16, 18. This is the definition Jesus is using. Why is that super important? Because if I didn't tell you that upfront, you might be tempted to believe that this teaching doesn't apply to you. What I wanted you to see with all the definitions and all the fun jazz is that when Jesus is talking about the universal church, he's talking about you and me today. He's talking about everybody that's ever been a part of Jesus' church. What he's going to teach us here applies to all of us because we are all part of the ecclesia. So with that as the introduction, now let's bounce back to verse 13 and let's start breaking it down a little bit. When Jesus came to the region of Caesarea Philippi. Another thing that's a little challenging when you study the Bible, I don't know about you, but I was really bad at geography as a kid. In fact, I will admit I'm still kind of bad at geography as an adult. But as I have studied the Bible, I've realized that I don't live in Jerusalem. I know that sounds really funny, but I don't live in Jerusalem. I don't live in Bethany. I don't live in Nazareth. And so sometimes not understanding the geography of the biblical story, I sometimes miss a few things. Like, for instance, Caesarea Philippi is a town named after a guy named Philip the Tetrarch, who's the son of Herod the Great, who rebuilt Solomon's temple. But it's over on the other side of the Jordan River where lots of Greek people live. So if you go to Jerusalem, Jerusalem is in Judea. That's like Jewish hometown stuff, right? Then just north of Judea, there's an area called Samaria. Those are the people that the first-century Jews really don't like. And then above that is the area of Galilee. Nazareth is from up here in Galilee. Nazareth is like the redneck back 40 to Jerusalem. So I just moved here. I just moved to the wonderful state of Delaware, the city of Wilmington. It's super urban. I used to live where my across-the-street neighbor was a 10-acre cornfield. It was very quiet at night, minus the deer and the church. I used to live in Nazareth. I now live in Jerusalem. See what I'm saying? Understanding those differences. So when Jesus is teaching in Caesarea Philippi, he's not teaching in a Jewish-dominated area. He's teaching in a Greek-dominated area, named after the son of a king that the Jews didn't really like a whole lot. Like there's a whole lot of beef between Herod the Great, even though they call him the Great. He wasn't really so great. So there's a whole lot of beef between Herod and the Jews. Jesus is teaching in Caesarea Philippi, and he asked his disciples. So now I get another clue. Jesus is in a Greek-dominated area. He's having a conversation with the people who love him, who trust him, who follow him. Keep in mind, we're at Matthew 16, so we're up all the way through the Gospel. So we're getting a little closer to Easter week. We've read the story. We know what's going to happen at the end of Jesus' ministry. Spoiler alert, if you haven't made it to the end of the Gospels, it's amazing. Just talk to me after church, I'll tell you about it. So we're there, and he asked his disciples, who do people say the Son of Man is? That's a very powerful statement. Who do people say the Son of Man is? So who is Jesus referring to when he says people? He's referring to anybody who's outside of the audience he's talking to now. Who is he talking to? His disciples. So when he's in a Greek-dominated area, and he says, hey, y'all, who does everyone else say I am? Who does everyone else say that I am? He's asking about his reputation. He's asking about how he's known, about what other people think of him. And then he uses a very specific term here, Son of Man. Now, notice that it's capitalized. That means we're talking about Jesus. So where does the term Son of Man come from? The term Son of Man comes from the Old Testament book of Daniel, chapter 7, verse 13. In Daniel 7, 13, Daniel has a prophecy that looks forward from the time of the Babylonian captivity, right? So Daniel, same Daniel as Daniel in the Lion's Den, right? So if you're trying to relate your Bible stories, Daniel in the Lion's Den takes place at a time where the Jewish people are outside of their homeland. They've been conquered by the evil Babylonians. They've been taken away from their homeland. Daniel actually had his name changed. The first thing they do when they take you out of your culture is they change your name. Because if they can change your identity, they can change your theology. So don't play. Daniel got taken out of his home, and the very first thing they did, a brand new Babylonian name, Belt to Shazzar. Super easy, rolls off the tongue, right? We went from Daniel to Belt to Shazzar. But, I digress, that was Daniel's story for another day. Daniel had a prophecy in which he saw someone called the Son of Man approaching the Ancient of Days. The Son of Man is a Messianic character. So when Jesus uses the term Son of Man in a gospel written by a Jew looking about the Messiah, what do you think this word means? Jesus is referring to himself as the Messiah of the Jewish people. To a Jewish audience, they would have totally got that. Interestingly, he's speaking to a Jewish audience in a Greek dominated area. So he's asking his disciples, hey, what do you think everybody else thinks about the Messiah? He hasn't asked them yet. He's going to ask them in a minute. And that sort of Son of Man, Jesus is absolutely referring to himself as the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. Don't let anybody ever tell you Jesus did not claim to be God and Jesus did not claim to be the Messiah. If you're wondering where, put it on your connection card. I'll email you this week. I promise you. He made both of those claims. They're either true or false. Right? So youth, we talked about that. Things are facts. Things are feelings, but they don't change facts. It's a fact. Jesus referred to himself as the promised Messiah of the Jewish people. Go to verse 14. Then they replied, meaning who? The disciples Jesus was talking to. They reply. Some say, and then we go off on a whole group. Okay, so Jesus, some people say John the Baptist. Some other people will say Elijah. Some other people, Jeremiah or another prophet. You could have just said Anna. But he doesn't. And again, I believe that the Holy Spirit inspired every single word of Scripture. I believe that everything has something to tell us. So the first thing is this. I want you to see on the whole that outside of Jesus' disciples, there's like zero agreement on who this Jesus guy is. Right? In Jerusalem, he's a rabble rouser. In Galilee, he's a healer. Over there in Cecily at Philippi, he's just some backward, you know, red-necked Jewish preacher who... Carpentry stuff. You know, there's no clear understanding of who Jesus is. But that's just the surface. Now let's go one level deeper and let's look at the actual three names that are given in Scripture and ask the question, do these three names have anything in common? And in fact, they do. Who's John the Baptist? So he's the last of the Old Testament prophets. It's actually his birth that kicks off the events of the New Testament. So pop quiz, how many years of silence between the end of the Old Testament and the beginning of the New Testament? 400 years. That's right. For 400 years, God doesn't say anything to his people. He reveals to Malachi that you'll know I'm coming when the forerunner comes to prepare a place for me. That forerunner is this guy right here, Johnny. Johnny shows up on the scene. Mary, the mother of Jesus, visits Elizabeth, the mother of Johnny. Filled with the Holy Spirit while still in his mother's womb, he is born, he is dedicated to Nazareth, and he knows his job. I am not the Messiah. I have been sent ahead of him. John even said about himself, I am the voice in the wilderness called to make a straight path for the Lord to travel. John knew his job. His job was to get you all ready because Jesus is coming. And now the Twyla Perah song is playing in everybody's head. I know. Only the few people who are old enough to remember that song laughed. So John the Baptist, he's the preparer of the Messiah. Who's Elijah? Well, now we got to troll farther back into the Old Testament. Elijah is an Old Testament prophet during the divided kingdom period. But what was Elijah's primary ministry? Well, during Elijah's day, there was a king named Ahaz who ran the whole country. He had a super popular wife named Jezebel. I'm sure you ladies have heard at least a teaching on her in your lifetime. Right? So Ahaz and Jezebel, they're running God's kingdom into the ground. They're chasing all kinds of pagan gods. They're sacrificing children, altars to idols for prosperity. That's what Molech is all about. There's some evil people. And Elijah's like, no, no, no, no, no. God is deserving of worship. We need to be holy. And then there's this whole showdown on the top of Mount Carmel. John, I'm sorry to say that Mount Carmel is an actual place. It's not just your Sunday. You can make a Mount Carmel. But in the Bible, Mount Carmel is a place where fire comes down. Whole big thing. What was Elijah doing? Elijah was calling people back to repentance. In fact, the book of Elijah in the Old Testament by biblical scholars is often called the fifth gospel. Because if you take Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John away, the most references to Jesus are right here. In Elijah's ministry. Excuse me, that's Isaiah. Elijah prepared people. Then Jeremiah, who's this guy? Jeremiah is another prophet during the divided kingdom period. The Assyrians are down on the city of Jerusalem. God is about to put his people in time out because he's saying, listen, you guys have been too evil. You've been too bad. What's Jeremiah's book all about? Repent because God's judgment is at hand. Do you see the key theme here? John the Baptist called people to repentance to prepare the way for the Messiah. Elijah called people to repentance because the king was evil. Jeremiah called people to repentance because the Assyrians were at the gate. So what's the key theme here? Everybody gets that Jesus is calling people to repentance. But nobody gets why. That's the key theme. Everybody gets that he's some kind of preacher. He's calling people to repent. But we're not really sure why he's calling people to repent. Maybe he's another prophet that I don't even know about yet. Like, who is this Jesus? What's clear from the text, Jesus is a Jewish teacher who is calling people to repentance. And if you add on top of that, the Messianic expectation, calling people to repentance in order to establish the way for the Messiah. He's calling people to repentance in order to establish God's kingdom. That's what we know about Jesus from right here in Matthew 16. He is a preacher calling people to repentance in order to establish God's kingdom. Now we move over to verse 15. Jesus flips the script. Well, what about you? Who's the you? Remember, Jesus is talking to you. Now we're still in the Caesarea Philippi, but we're not talking about the outside audience anymore. Now we're talking about who is Jesus actually speaking to? His own disciples. Guys and gals, just because the 12 disciples were all male, please do not think that everyone who traveled with Jesus was male. That's a lie. All you have to do is go to the Easter story. Who are the people who discovered the empty tomb? Women, not men. All 12 of the apostles were in hiding. The women prepared spices to go minister to the dead body of Jesus. They weren't expecting a resurrection. They were surprised by that. We'll talk more about that at Easter. They were surprised by the resurrection. But it was the women who went to minister to Jesus while all the dudes were in hiding. So when he's talking to his disciples, if it does not specifically say the 12, I would argue that this conversation here is taking place with male and female followers of Jesus. Who do you say I am? This is probably one of the most powerful questions that Jesus could ask. I could turn around and say the same to you. Who do you say Jesus really is? Because this question is going to tell you everything you need to know about what you believe about Jesus. Well, I think Jesus is a mythological figure. I don't think he really lived. There are people who believe that. There are people who teach that. On Easter, show up for church. I'll show you exactly how to tear that argument down. The idea that Jesus is made up mythological figure is not held by any credible scholar, atheist or believer. And I'll have some quotes from some atheist Bible scholars who will tell you Jesus Nazareth absolutely has to be a historical figure. Well, okay, so Jesus is a historical figure, but I'm not really sure he was like a miracle worker. I don't think he was the son of God. He was just a Jewish teacher. Okay, Jews believe that. Muslims believe that. Christians believe that, but we don't stop there, right? So do you see how the who do you say I am? I could get a Jew and a Christian to agree that Jesus was a good teacher. I could not get either one of them to agree that Jesus is like the son of God or the promised Messiah. They would disagree with that. But a Jew and a Muslim will totally agree with you that Jesus is actually a historical figure and he was a good teacher. A Muslim will even equate Jesus to Moses in the sense that Moses was a prophet of God. Jesus was a prophet of God. They'll then argue that Muhammad is the final prophet of God. But a Muslim will even tell you that Jesus was a prophet. He just wasn't the final or greatest prophet. That's why the identity of Jesus must be so important to the ecclesia of God. If we're a group called to a purpose, if we're a group literally called by the name Christ, we're Christians. Who do we say I am? It's super important. So look at verse 16. How does Simon Peter answer this question? He says, you are the Messiah, the son of the living God. Only a Christian can make this statement and I'll show you why. You are the Messiah. Jesus already referred to himself as Messiah when he used the term son of man, right? So saying that you are the Messiah, a Jew is not going to agree with you. A Muslim might because they would then tell you, well Messiah only according to the Jewish scriptures, our Quran is newer and it builds on top of that. So you might, depending on how effervescent a Muslim is, they might agree with this one. Only a Christian is going to agree with this. Only a Christian is going to say, no, Jesus is not only the promised Messiah of the Old Testament, he is the divine son of God. And when we say son of God, he could have just said you're the Messiah God. But he said you're the divine son of the living God. Do you see the Trinity buried in the statement? So last week we talked about the Holy Spirit. We said that God the Father is God, God the Son is God, God the Holy Spirit is God. So that's the doctrine of the Trinity. That all three members of the Trinity, they are separate in personality, but they are in one essence. They are in one unity. This is a Trinitarian statement of who Jesus is. Jesus is not only the promised Messiah of the Old Testament. He's not only the hope and the future of all Israel. He is also the son of the living God. This establishes that they knew Jesus' divinity before his crucifixion. Everybody see that? So the idea, because there are some people out there who they'll tell you that, you know, Jesus was a historical figure, but Christianity invented Jesus' divinity round about like AD 100 to 130. We created the myth that Jesus was God, that he wasn't actually God on earth. That's a belief. It's out there. You need to know it's out there. You also need to be able to go, but Matthew says otherwise. Now they could argue, we could go into the argument about defending the Bible and all that jazz, but what I want you to see is, this is Peter speaking. Peter's one of like the main three disciples. In my mind, Peter is the ADHD disciple. I love this man. He is super hot and then super distracted and then super hot. Jesus, I love you, but I admit that I know you. But before they take you, I'm going to cut the ear off a servant like, man, Peter is my dude. Peter makes me feel good about myself. This is Peter speaking and he specifically says, no, you are not. What's Peter's religion at this moment? He's still a Jew. When he says this word right here, he's talking about all the expectations from the Old Testament. He's saying, you are the fulfillment of all that Yahweh, our one true God, has promised us. You are the guarantor of God's kingdom and our future, and you are also divine and God yourself. This is who Jesus is. Did you know that before you came in here today? Would you have been able to articulate it amazingly as Peter does in a single sentence? You are the Messiah, son of the living God. Look at verse 17. Jesus replied, Blessed are you, Simon son of Jonah, for this was not revealed to you by flesh and blood, but by my Father in heaven. Now the word revealed, where is this? Right here. This word revealed, it literally means to make something known or understood, which was previously unknown or non-understood. So when Jesus here says, blessed are you, Simon, because that was his original name, Simon son of Jonah, for this, what's the this? What he just said about Jesus. Jesus is Messiah and divine. He is the divine Son of God, the Messiah of the Jewish people. That bit of knowledge was revealed to Peter by my Father in heaven. God himself revealed the truth of Jesus's identity to Peter while Peter, while Jesus was still alive and on earth. So this idea that we invented Jesus's divinity is a lie. I mean, there are other ways I could prove it, but I wanted to show it to you because it's right here already. Peter knew that Jesus was the Son of God. Jesus refers to Peter as blessed because he's revealed knowledge from God. Look at verse 18. And I tell you that you are Peter and on this rock I will build my church. This is probably one of the most hotly debated statements of Jesus. So let's dig into it. Let's see what happens here. See if we still have a church when I'm done. All right, verse 18. And I tell you that you are Peter. This first part, everybody seems to skip over, but I really think that if you understand the beginning of the sentence, then the rest of it kind of makes sense. So what has Jesus been talking about this entire time? He's talking about identity, right? He's talking about who do other people say I am? Who do you say I am? What's... Eric, take me back one step. What did Jesus say? Blessed are you, Simon. Now go to the next verse. Jesus says, and I tell you, you are Peter. Do you see the symmetry there? Jesus says, you are, and I tell you, you are Peter. So who is the focus of the sentence? Peter, right? I tell you, you are Peter. And on this rock I will build my church. The second part, or the middle part of this sentence gets everybody all in tizzy. So I'm going to give you a couple different theories of interpretation and I'm going to tell you which one I think is correct. So you've got three choices. Number one, Jesus is saying that on Peter I will build my church. Why? The word Peter in Greek is petros. The word rock in Greek, petros. So Peter's name is, sounds like, or what do you call two words that sound the same, but don't mean the same? Hominem, right? Yeah, I told you I was going to suck at English. Hominem. So Peter, and on this rock I will build my church. So option one, Jesus is referring to Peter as the rock I will build my church. Option two, Jesus is referring to Peter's statement that you are the Messiah, the son of the living God. He could be referring to Jesus as Peter's statement of faith that was revealed to him by God. On that rock I will build my church. The third view, which is the way a Catholic is going to interpret this, because see Catholics have extra books in the Bible, and they're going to claim that Peter was actually the first pope, and so that Jesus is actually installing the Roman Catholic Church in this verse. I'm going to tell you that's the one I think we need to rule out, because there's no historical evidence at all that Peter was ever referred to as a pope, and given the fact that the Roman Catholic Church didn't exist in 30 or 29 AD, that's probably, you're reading back into the text something that's not actually there, right? So let's get rid of number three. We've got two choices left. Number one, Peter is the rock on which the church will be built. Number two, Peter's statement of faith is the rock on which the church is going to be built. Then he says, I will build my church. Who's that? Yes! Here's the other interpretive key to this verse. Peter does not build the church. That's why I think the Roman Catholic views need to be ruled out. Peter does not build the church. Jesus builds his church. So how does Jesus build his church? Yes, the church of Jesus Christ has always been built on faith, on the identity of Jesus. So there is a pretty good amount of evidence, if you want to go with option B, that Jesus is talking about the faith statement. I think it's more logical for Jesus to be talking about Peter the person. Through Peter, Jesus will build my church. Why do I think that? Because if I go to the book of Acts, who preached on the day of Pentecost when 3,000 people got saved? Peter did. Acts chapter 10. Who was the person who first carried the gospel to the Gentiles at Cornelius' house? Peter. You are totally right. That was a very good guess, Dan. Good job. And Eric, take me one slide down. Let me show you verse 19. Oh, it didn't work. All right. Verse 19. Oh, that's right. Verse 19 is not there. If you go to verse 19, Jesus is still also talking about Peter. That's right. So it's not Eric's fault. It's totally my fault. I look at my notes and I left verse 19 out. I think Jesus is referring to Peter because Peter is the one who preached on Pentecost. 3,000 Jews got saved. Peter's the one who preached in Acts chapter 10. Cornelius and his entire house got saved. But on what did they place their salvation? Not Peter. They placed their salvation in Jesus. So Peter's statement of you're the Messiah, the son of the living God, is still totally the foundation of the church. But who is the active agent in doing all of that preaching? Peter was. So I don't think it's wrong for us to say, and I tell you, you are Peter, you are Petros, and on this Petros, on this Peter, I will build my church. Peter did the action, but Jesus did the building. Right? Peter was faithful in his ministry. He preached and 3,000 people got saved in Acts chapter 2. He preached and brought the apostle to the Gentiles. Then who takes over as the apostle to the Gentiles? Paul. But who was the one who opened the doors, both Jew and Gentile? It was Peter in Acts chapter 2 and in Acts chapter 10. What did Peter preach? Jesus the Messiah, divine and crucified. So you can see how those two interpretations go together. I'm not going to make you pick one. It's one of those funny areas where I'm going to leave you to debate that at lunch with your spouse and your family. Which one you think is there? Scholars do go back and forth about it. The funny thing is, I think they're both kind of half right. Peter is the person who did the preaching, but Peter, the church isn't built on Peter. The church is built on Jesus. And then he says, and the gates of Hades will not overcome it. Now remember when I told you that Matthew is a super Jewish flavored book? Here's why you needed to know that. When we say the gates of Hades will not overcome it, Jesus is not talking about demonic. The gates of Hades is a Jewish idiom, or it's a phrase. An idiom is a group of words that mean more than the words mean themselves. For instance, if I were to tell you that I got up yesterday, man, I totally hit the ground running. Does anybody see me stumbling over with boxing gloves and punching the floor? No. Why? Because in English, when I tell you I hit the ground running, it means I started my day off at a clip, right? You naturally understand hit the ground running means something different than punch the ground jogging. The gates of Hades is a Jewish idiom for death. It's a Jewish idiom for the time of the grave or the time when our earthly life is over. You see, Jews believe in an afterlife, right? So when we say the gates of Hades, if I were to translate this for you, take the idiom out, and I tell you, you are Peter and on this rock I will build my church, and even death will not overcome it. That's what Jesus is saying here to a Jewish audience in a Gentile town. The gates of Hades refer to death. Why is it that even death will not overcome the Church of Jesus Christ? Well, we know something that they don't know yet. We know that Jesus rose. That was the amen moment. Let's take it back. Let's do a take two. We know Jesus rose. See, there we go. We know that Jesus is the Messiah. He is the Son of God, and He overcame death, hell, and the grave. That's how the church that Peter preached, that Jesus built, will outlast all death, because that's Jesus' plan. So what does all of this mean when it means how do we understand or how are we part of the church? Let's go to the takeaway here. Take away from Jesus on the church. The church, or the ecclesia, is a group of people called together who, number one, recognize Jesus as both Messiah and God. Number two, the church, ecclesia, is a group of people called together who stand on the foundation that the Apostles have laid. What is the foundation the Apostles have laid? The identity of Jesus and the doctrine of the Scriptures. So that's the second thing that the church has to stand on. And the third one, the church, ecclesia, is a group of people called together who are called to the purpose of continuing the mission. This is what church really means. I know in America we often think of the word church as the building. We think of the word church as the parking lot. We even think of the word church as the people in the building. And you know what? That's not wrong. Ecclesia is a group of people called together for a purpose. But I think we've disconnected the people from the purpose. So by show of hands, how many people noticed I changed clothes midway through church? Okay, so a few of you did. I was just really curious because nobody pointed to that. So I did this on purpose. So I admitted even in my interview, I'm sorry, I'm not a big sports fan. In fact, Paul had to tell me who the angels were because I had never heard of them before. I just want to be perfectly honest. Pastor Paul saved me. So Paul, they are from Los Angeles, correct? And they are a baseball team, correct? All right, so Paul, do me a favor, toss me that baseball. Like, come over here. Don't toss it over people's heads. Because again, I'm not super good at the athletics and we don't need the medical team to come in and solve a head injury. But I want to make a point here. Wearing a baseball jersey, I caught it. Yay! So here's the best way I can explain Ecclesia to you. I'm wearing a Los Angeles Angels baseball jersey. I'm wearing a Los Angeles Angels baseball cap. I am holding a baseball. I am a Los Angeles Angels baseball player. You laugh, but let me ask you a question. Why do you get to come to church and carry a Bible and call yourself a Christian but you don't play on the team? See, there's a difference between fans and teammates. Just because I carry the tools. Just because I wear the right clothes. Just because I even know the right lingo. Which I don't, by the way, because I don't play baseball. But let's pretend I knew, like, let's pretend Bill took me to school and he taught me all about baseball. It doesn't matter how much I know about baseball. It doesn't matter how many baseballs I own. It doesn't matter how many jerseys I own. It doesn't matter how many hats I own. Wearing the gear doesn't make you a part of the team. But for some reason, Christians let themselves think because they come to the playing field once a week and you know how to wear the right clothes, you know how to use the right words, and you know how to bring the right tools that you must be a part of the Ecclesia. The problem is the Ecclesia statement ends with the word purpose. What is the purpose that gathers all of us together? The purpose is not sitting in this room and listening to an incredibly good looking person talk to you for 20 minutes. That's not the purpose of church. The purpose of church is to heal the hurting and rescue the broken. That's our purpose. But the problem is too many people think that being in church is like being in a club instead of being on a team. I don't care how many jerseys I own. If I don't actually join a team and learn how to play by the rules and listen to the coach, I'm just a fan. How many people come to church and y'all are just fans? You're not actually players. That's a real question. Go back to the question, who do you say I am? Is Jesus just the person that we talk about once a week? Is Jesus just the person? Let's be super real, right? So I have a section in my closet that's called church clothes. Anybody else have one of those? I have like two pairs of jeans that I'm only allowed to wear on Sundays because all the rest of my jeans are not allowed to be worn out of the house. I have dress shirts that I only use at church. My black suit, believe it or not, I actually do own a suit. I promise I do. I only wear it at weddings and funerals. It's my work outfit, right? So I have a whole set of clothes dedicated for church. But how much of my time? How much of my conversation? How much of my effort? How much of my finances? How much of my relationships? Right? If all I do is the superficial, then you're not actually part of the team. You're still just sitting in the stands. And what's funny, when I first said, oh look, I'm a Los Angeles Angels baseball player, all of you laughed at me because you knew how ridiculous it is for me to claim that just because I have a ball and a jersey and a hat that I'm a player. But how many of you come to church and don't participate in the active ministry? How many of you come to church and still haven't become members of whatever church you go to? You're still just sitting in the stands. You're sitting in the stands, wearing the hat and the jersey, carrying the right tools, but you're not actually participating in the game. You've turned church into a club, not into a team. That's what it means to, and I needed you to see all that Jesus has done for you. I just expected out of this word in order for this analogy to really make any sense. I want you to know your Bible in and out, but not just because it makes you smarter, but because it gives you the tools to go out in the real world where the real mission happens. I want you to know, have the official jersey. This one happens to be my Los Angeles jersey. Here's my actual jersey. This is what the real team is about. This is what the real mission is about. Today we have another baptism. Why? Because we have another teammate, not another club member. That's what being a part of a church community is all about. It's not just that we're called by the same name, but it's that we're all committed to playing the same game. So do me a favor, pull out your phones. Those of you who have your phone, I want you to scan the QR code that's right there on it. I want everybody to go to their connection card, but I don't want you to fill it out just yet. So if you're joining us online or you don't happen to have your phone or you have your phone, you can go to catalyst302.com slash connect. If you happen to be here in our sanctuary, there are cards right there in the chair in front of you. So everybody should have the opportunity to respond. Here's my question for you today. Are you a member of the team? Or are you just a fan? Do you just come here and wear the right clothes and bring the right tools and look like a team member, but you're not actually on the team? Or I'll get even more pointed. There is a point at which, in fact, we're just with the deacons this past week. We're talking about the assimilation process. How does a church grow? A church grows because guests become regular attenders. Regular attenders eventually make a commitment of membership. This is my church. So I want you to ask yourself with nobody else looking, how many of you listening to this message right now, even if you're not here today, are not a member of a local church? You've not said, hey, coach, I don't really know everything yet. I'm willing to learn, but I'm ready to be on the team. Because this is how the kingdom of God grows. People often ask the question, well, how do we know if it's the universal church versus the local church? Here's the easier answer. The local church is the expression of the universal church. When you make a commitment to be a part of a local church family, you're making a commitment to being a part of the overall church. Now the cool thing is you get to choose. You can be part of this church or that church or the church down the street or the church five miles from here or 10 miles from here or the church that's got the better looking pastor or the church that's got the less better looking pastor because he's distracting. I don't know. You like the church with the ADHD pastor? Sure. So here's what I want to do. This week is a little different because it also involves our ekklesia, our group here. So what I want to challenge you with is if you're here today and you're not actually, so here at Catalyst we use the word partner, not member. It means I'm going to be a partner of the team. If you're here this morning and you're not actually a partner and if you're not sure, you can ask myself or Ms. Donna after church. I'm going to be your partner. I'm going to have a partnership class in the fellowship hall as soon as this is over because I want to know how many people are actually going to play because here's the deal. I believe God has huge things in store for this church, but you can't pull a sled without a strong team. Say now I just totally switched analogies to blogs. Something I know better. Super hard for me to hold this baseball and come up with any analogies because I don't know the game that well. Maybe that's how you feel about church. You're not sure if you want to be a partner because you really don't know the game that well. That's okay. We have a couple people in this church and we know the game good. We got a first base coach that's going to knock your socks off. Bill's going to teach you things about church you didn't even know you knew. You didn't even know he knew. Donna, Paul, my wife, we've been at this a while. We've got some really good players. But you know what we need? We need a bigger team. We need people who are going to go, alright coach, I'm good to go. Let's get in the game. So I want you to look at your connection card. On your connect card it says join in community. It's a little check box. Once you put your name, once you put your email address. Now you might be here this morning and you're already on the team. Fantastic. You're a partner. That's great. The next step. What ministry in our church are you serving in? You realize that all the work that's done at the church except for myself, Pastor Paul and Miss Donna is all done by volunteer. Everything that you experienced this morning, the Amate worship team, give them a hand. They did a great job with very few people. You know everybody up here does this for free, right? Like they're not all paid. They're that good. But they're not paid to do it. Why? Because we come together and we say, alright coach, we're going to do this together. So I want you to fill out your connection card. If you are not a member of our team, I want you to be. I'll teach you everything you need to know how to play the game. I'll get you the first base coach. I'll get you the batting coach. Bill, are there any other kind of coaches in baseball that I can use? Yeah? What's that? Pitching coach. Pitchers are the guy who throw the thing, right? Maybe we're not going to throw people out of church. So if you're not a part of our team, I want you to be. Furthermore, Jesus expects all of us to be a part of a team. Maybe, and I'll be perfectly honest, maybe you're watching this and you're like, man, I just don't really like you. I don't like that message. I don't like this church. Fantastic. That's not an excuse for you not to find a church to be a part of. Get off your and go to church and pick a different one. But the idea that you get permission to not be connected to the church is not going to be a good thing. Jesus expects that we're all part of an eclipse here. If it's not gonna be catalyst, pick a different team. But get into the game, so while you're finishing your connection card, I'm gonna ask Victor, I don't know where you are. But mass Victor to come back up here, take the stage at the piano. Dan, I'll ask you to bring your ushers forward. We're going to worship the Lord and giving, then we're going to do some announcements and then we got one more big celebration. I'm going to ask you. I always tell people in the business world. All right, I want you to pick a team. I'm going to ask you to pick a team here. But for now, we're going to do it with the crowd, but for us, that's what you need to do. Pick a team that's not going to be a catalyst. So you're going to pick a team that doesn't have to do anything. Pick a team that's not going to be a catalyst. Pick a team that's so while you're filling out your connection card I want to challenge you to give to the Lord not because it affects me but because giving is a part of biblical Christianity just like being on a team you play by the rules guess what one of the rules of being a Christian is that we all serve right one of the rules of being a Christian is that we all trust God with our finance I didn't write the rule book I just played right I just played by the rules the rules say God wants us to trust him time and with our finances and in our relationships so I want to challenge you this morning and I'm gonna pray and that's yours they're gonna pass the baskets back and forth nobody's up here judging how much you choose to give how you to give I'll tell you right now my wife does not trust me with cash or a checkbook so that's why I use catalyst 302 comm slash give if you don't have a pattern of giving and we'll talk about this later on here we talk about stewardship the electronic giving console you can schedule it you can give five ten twenty dollars per week and say you know I want to give it on Thursdays or my finances work better if it comes out on the 17th of every month or you know you can prioritize something schedule it and make it a priority or you can give right here what you have you're joining us online unfortunately can't reach through the camera but you can go to see 302 comm slash give so as Victor starts playing I'm gonna pray and I'm gonna ask the ushers to service Heavenly Father I thank you so much for calling every one of us to be on the team Jesus I ask that you bless every single person who gives of themselves today who trusts you in their finances or God give them blessings for trusting you we don't we don't give to get but what I believe that you are a God who blesses his children out of his abundant ability bless us today as we trust in you in Jesus name