The Cosmos & The Planet Earth
Monday, July 18, 2022 9:55 AM
In The Beginning: Creation of The Cosmos & The Preparation of Earth
Genesis 1:1–2:3 (NIV)
Key Thought:
The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for us to
understand God's relationship to humanity.
READ GENESIS 1:1 - 2:3 FROM THE BIBLE
1 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.
In the beginning - WHEN - before time
God - eternally existent
Created - action is only done by an agent, not an object
The heavens and the earth - a Hebrew idiom for 'everything'
Every worldview starts with something called "prime reality". Prime
reality is the basis or foundation for the existence of everything else.
In a Biblical worldview, this is God.
The term "Creatio Ex Nihilo" refers to "Creation out of nothing" it
states that all time, space, matter, and energy are NOT eternal and God
is the creative and causal agent which made the universe and
everything in it.
2 Now the earth was formless and empty, darkness was over the
surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters.
In The Beginning Page 1

The earth - the "ground" not the planet itself
Formless and empty - this refers to "un-prepared" or "un-shaped"
Darkness was over - without light there is nothing but darkness
Surface of the deep - planet earth was covered in water
Spirit of God - the presence of the Holy Spirit in creation
Gen 1:1-2 and John 1:1-3 show all three members of the Trinity active
in Creation
3 And God said, “Let there be light,” and there was light.
4 God saw that the light was good, and he separated the light from the
darkness.
5 God called the light “day,” and the darkness he called “night.” And
there was evening, and there was morning—the first day.
God said - other than day six, God creates by divine declaration
Light - this is the creation of light itself, NOT sunlight
Light was good - the goal of creation is humanity, light is "good" for
that goal
Separated - darkness is the absence of light, this is how the two are
separated
God called - theologically the act of naming implies dominion over
Evening/morning - this is why the Jewish day is measured from
sundown to sundown
- this also implies a 24 hour period of earth around
a light source
6 And God said, “Let there be a vault between the waters to separate
In The Beginning Page 2

6 And God said, “Let there be a vault between the waters to separate
water from water.”
7 So God made the vault and separated the water under the vault from
the water above it. And it was so.
8 God called the vault “sky.” And there was evening, and there was
morning—the second day.
God said - again, God creating by divine declaration
A vault - firmament, expanse, dome
- the 'sky space' between us & the atmosphere
Water from water - the water of the surface from the water of the
atmosphere
9 And God said, “Let the water under the sky be gathered to one place,
and let dry ground appear.” And it was so.
10 God called the dry ground “land,” and the gathered waters he called
“seas.” And God saw that it was good.
11 Then God said, “Let the land produce vegetation: seed-bearing
plants and trees on the land that bear fruit with seed in it, according to
their various kinds.” And it was so.
12 The land produced vegetation: plants bearing seed according to their
kinds and trees bearing fruit with seed in it according to their kinds. And
God saw that it was good.
13 And there was evening, and there was morning—the third day.
Water under the sky - water on the surface of the planet
Dry ground - was originally covered with water, now being
prepared
Called land/seas - another act of God's dominion over that which
In The Beginning Page 3

Called land/seas - another act of God's dominion over that which
He names
By creating ground, sky, and sea, God places them under His
dominion.
This means they are NOT objects to be worshiped
Let the land produce - creation by declaration
Their kinds - this is NOT a modern scientific term, but a theological
"kind"
It was good - for the preparation of humanity
14 And God said, “Let there be lights in the vault of the sky to separate
the day from the night, and let them serve as signs to mark sacred
times, and days and years,
15 and let them be lights in the vault of the sky to give light on the
earth.” And it was so.
16 God made two great lights—the greater light to govern the day and
the lesser light to govern the night. He also made the stars.
17 God set them in the vault of the sky to give light on the earth,
18 to govern the day and the night, and to separate light from darkness.
And God saw that it was good.
19 And there was evening, and there was morning—the fourth day.
Lights - luminaries, sources for the light already created to emanate
from
Signs to mark - the purpose of the heavenly lights is to help with
the passage of time
In The Beginning Page 4

the passage of time
Two great lights - the sun and the moon are relegated lights, not
originals
It was good - for the preparation of humanity
Evening, morning, 4th day - another indication of a literal 6 days
creation
20 And God said, “Let the water teem with living creatures, and let birds
fly above the earth across the vault of the sky.”
21 So God created the great creatures of the sea and every living thing
with which the water teems and that moves about in it, according to
their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw
that it was good.
22 God blessed them and said, “Be fruitful and increase in number and
fill the water in the seas, and let the birds increase on the earth.”
23 And there was evening, and there was morning—the fifth day.
Mirroring the separation of ocean from sky,
God now wills the different domains with animal life
Water creatures - both fresh and salt water creatures
Birds - all flighted creatures
Kinds - remember, not a scientific term, a theological one
Be fruitful - theologically, blessing come through
24 And God said, “Let the land produce living creatures according to
their kinds: the livestock, the creatures that move along the ground, and
the wild animals, each according to its kind.” And it was so.
In The Beginning Page 5

the wild animals, each according to its kind.” And it was so.
25 God made the wild animals according to their kinds, the livestock
according to their kinds, and all the creatures that move along the
ground according to their kinds. And God saw that it was good.
Living creature - like the domains of water and sky, land now has
animal inhabitants
Livestock - animals that are designed to be tamed or managed by
humans
Its kind - a theological, not scientific term
It was good - in preparation for humanity
26 Then God said, “Let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness,
so that they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky,
over the livestock and all the wild animals, and over all the creatures
that move along the ground.”
27 So God created mankind in his own image, in the image of God he
created them; male and female he created them.
Let us - an illustration of the plural nature of the One True God
In Our image - has the capacity for spiritual relationship, this is
unique to humans
- only man has a SOUL breathed by God
They may rule - humanity was created to be God's regent on earth
Created Man - God has dominion over man as well as all creation,
but placed authority in
man making him the representative authority on
earth
28 God blessed them and said to them, “Be fruitful and increase in
number; fill the earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish in the sea and the
birds in the sky and over every living creature that moves on the
In The Beginning Page 6

birds in the sky and over every living creature that moves on the
ground.”
29 Then God said, “I give you every seed-bearing plant on the face of
the whole earth and every tree that has fruit with seed in it. They will be
yours for food.
30 And to all the beasts of the earth and all the birds in the sky and all
the creatures that move along the ground—everything that has the
breath of life in it—I give every green plant for food.” And it was so.
31 God saw all that he had made, and it was very good. And there was
evening, and there was morning—the sixth day.
Be fruitful and increase in number - God's command was to
procreate
Rule over - creation was prepared for man to be God's regent on
earth
Every seed bearing plant - humans were designed to be plant-
based
Every green plant - all animals at creation were designed to be
plant-based
VERY GOOD - only after man is placed in charge of creation is it
VERY GOOD
1 Thus the heavens and the earth were completed in all their vast array.
2 By the seventh day God had finished the work he had been doing; so
on the seventh day he rested from all his work.
3 Then God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it he
rested from all the work of creating that he had done.
Heavens and earth - an idiom or "everything"
Rested - God was not tired, this is an active rest
Blessed the 7th day - God selected it and set it apart BY His active
In The Beginning Page 7

Blessed the 7th day - God selected it and set it apart BY His active
rest
The Takeaway:
God's creation was designed for man to be His regent and
representative ruling creation under His authority.
In The Beginning Page 8

Adam & Eve: Our Intended Relationship with God
Monday, July 18, 2022 6:19 PM
Genesis 2:4–25 (NIV)
Key Thought:
The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for us to
understand God's relationship to humanity.
Covenant: Our Intended Relationship with God
Genesis 2:4 - 2:7
Chapter One - THAT God created mankind
Chapter Two - HOW & WHY God created mankind
4 This is the account of the heavens and the earth when they were created, when
the LORD God made the earth and the heavens.
The account of - lit. " what became of " creation
LORD God - 'Yahweh Elohim' the texts now adds the covenant name for God
5 Now no shrub had yet appeared on the earth and no plant had yet sprung up,
for the LORD God had not sent rain on the earth and there was no one to work the
ground,
Shrub/plant - ' wild plants ' as these were a consequence of sin
Not sent rain - a prefiguring of the flood and punishment of sin
No one to work the ground - another of the consequences of sin
6 but streams came up from the earth and watered the whole surface of the
ground.
Streams - the planet was created with water already on/in it
Watered - the water fed the plants created on day three
7 Then the LORD God formed a man from the dust of the ground and breathed
into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living being.
LORD God - again, Yahweh the covenant making God is figured
Formed a man - God is viewed as a potter crafting a piece
In The Beginning Page 9

Formed a man - God is viewed as a potter crafting a piece
Dust / Breath - man is a two-part being, both physical and non-physical
Service: Our Intended Responsibility to God
Genesis 2:8-15
8 Now the LORD God had planted a garden in the east, in Eden; and there he put
the man he had formed.
LORD - Yahweh, the covenant making God
Planted a garden - this is a special area of ground prepared for Adam
In Eden - the name is not Eden, the garden is in a place called Eden lit.
'delight'
Put the man - God ' placed or set ' by intention or plan
9 The LORD God made all kinds of trees grow out of the ground—trees that were
pleasing to the eye and good for food. In the middle of the garden were the tree of
life and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
LORD - Yahweh, the covenant making God
All kinds of trees - variety of provision
Pleasing / food - fashion is not a form of function, God chose to make it
pretty
Middle of the garden - the two trees are together as the center of God's
plan, blessing thru obedience
10 A river watering the garden flowed from Eden; from there it was separated into
four headwaters.
The rivers - are described to accentuate the blissfulness of Eden
There is simply no way to know the pre-flood topography of the land
11 The name of the first is the Pishon; it winds through the entire land of Havilah,
where there is gold.
12 (The gold of that land is good; aromatic resin and onyx are also there.)
13 The name of the second river is the Gihon; it winds through the entire land of
Cush.
In The Beginning Page 10

Cush.
14 The name of the third river is the Tigris; it runs along the east side of Ashur.
And the fourth river is the Euphrates.
15 The LORD God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and
take care of it.
To work it - serving God is part of our original design, work is not a
consequence of sin
Obedience: Our Intended Response to God
Genesis 2:16-25
16 And the LORD God commanded the man, “You are free to eat from any tree in
the garden;
LORD - Yahweh, the covenant making God
Free to eat - God gives Adam the freedom of choice
17 but you must not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, for when
you eat from it you will certainly die.”
Must not eat - there can be no obedience without rules
Tree of Knowledge - the capacity of moral and ethical thinking
You will die - the punishment for sin (disobedience) has always been death
Two Trees - taken together, they are a perfect portrait of eternal life found
in obedience to God alone
18 The LORD God said, “It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper
suitable for him.”
Not good - creation was intended to have men and women in relationship to
each other and God
19 Now the LORD God had formed out of the ground all the wild animals and all
the birds in the sky. He brought them to the man to see what he would name
In The Beginning Page 11

the birds in the sky. He brought them to the man to see what he would name
them; and whatever the man called each living creature, that was its name.
20 So the man gave names to all the livestock, the birds in the sky and all the wild
animals. But for Adam no suitable helper was found.
Brought them to Adam - the Potter is teaching the creation about his own
need for a mate
Named the animals - this also denotes Adam's authority over creation
Helper - 'ezer' /aye - ZARE/ lit' one who assist or serves EXACLTY what Adam
does. Eve is the same as Adam
21 So the LORD God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep; and while he was
sleeping, he took one of the man’s ribs and then closed up the place with flesh.
deep sleep - is NOT divine anesthesia, illustrates full reliance on God as in
Gen 15 (flaming fire pot)
22 Then the LORD God made a woman from the rib he had taken out of the man,
and he brought her to the man.
Brought her to him - this prefigures the "giving away of the bride" in our
modern marriage ceremony
Rib - is from the side and conveys the equal worth of women with God
23 The man said, “This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh; she shall be
called ‘woman,’ for she was taken out of man.”
Be called woman - Adam's first recorded statement
- illustrates Eve's equality and yet femininity as distinct from
Adam
24 That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife, and
they become one flesh.
United to his wife - the marriage ceremony remembers our created state
and order
25 Adam and his wife were both naked, and they felt no shame.
Felt no shame - there is no shame where there is no sin
In The Beginning Page 12

The Takeaway:
Humanity was intended to both serve and obey the Lord God while living in His
provision and blessing.
In The Beginning Page 13

The Fall
The Fall
Genesis 3:1–6 (NIV)
Key Thought:
The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for us to
understand God's relationship to humanity.
Chapter 1: Origin of everything: THAT God created
Chapter 2: Origin of humanity: HOW & WHY God created
Chapter 3: Origin of sin & the consequences: WHAT HAPPENED to
creation
1 Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals the
LORD God had made. He said to the woman, “Did God really say, ‘You
must not eat from any tree in the garden’?”
serpent - The Bible does not say WHY Satan chose the serpent
wild animals - the fact these are mentioned, the serpent is real not
a symbol
LORD - the covenant making God of Israel
To the woman - Adam in present for this exchange (v6), Satan
chose to target
Eve in the initial question
Not eat / any tree - Satan tempts by rephrasing God's words: "you
must not eat" and "any tree in the garden" twisting them to a
restrictive meaning
2 The woman said to the serpent, “We may eat fruit from the trees in
the garden,
We may eat - Eve correctly responds with God's actual directions
Trees in the garden - Eve remembers God's abundant provision
In The Beginning Page 14

Trees in the garden - Eve remembers God's abundant provision
3 but God did say, ‘You must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the
middle of the garden, and you must not touch it, or you will die.’ ”
But God did say - Eve also correctly states God's restriction
Must not eat - Eve knew the restriction
Middle of the garden - Eve knew the location
You will die - Eve knew the consequences
Not touch it - Eve is without sin here, any desire not to touch the
fruit should be viewed out of innocence, not out of guilt
4 “You will not certainly die,” the serpent said to the woman.
You will not - Satan directly challenges the truth of God's Word
5 “For God knows that when you eat from it your eyes will be opened,
and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.”
For God knows - Satan frames God's instruction as a restriction
from a good rather than a protection from evil
Eyes will be opened - this doesn’t mean their literal eyes, but their
understanding
Be like God - the desire to be like or replace God is fundamental to
temptation and sin
Knowing good & evil - God's plan was for humanity to learn good
and evil from Him, the ultimate source of all good, humanity has
struggled ever since to determine good and evil apart from God
6 When the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and
pleasing to the eye, and also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took
some and ate it. She also gave some to her husband, who was with her,
and he ate it.
Good for food - as God created it
Pleasing to the eye - as God created it
In The Beginning Page 15

Pleasing to the eye - as God created it
Gaining wisdom - God intended our spiritual knowledge to come
from Him
Who was it her - Adam was silently present during the entire
exchange!
The Takeaway:
The original recipe for temptation and sin has not changed, we must
learn to recognize and resist it:
1: Question God's Word
2: Question God's Character
3: Question God's Authority
4: Silently allow or participate in disobedience.
In The Beginning Page 16

Shared Consequences
Monday, August 8, 2022 11:36 AM
The Shared Consequences
Genesis 3:7-13 (NIV)
Key Thought:
The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for us to
understand God's relationship to humanity.
Chapter 1: Origin of everything: THAT God created
Chapter 2: Origin of humanity: HOW & WHY God created
Chapter 3: Origin of sin & the consequences: WHAT HAPPENED to
creation
7 Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they realized they
were naked; so they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings for
themselves.
Both of them - all the actions are BOTH Adam & Eve, they sinned
together
Were opened - not their literal eyes, but their knowledge &
understanding
- this is what they wanted, but not really
Realized naked - not just physical nakedness, but "exposed" or
guilty before
God for their sin of disobedience.
- they not only gained the knowledge OF evil,
but learned they themselves WERE evil
Satan's promise is of being "like God" is not fulfilled
Wisdom can never be found by disobeying God's Word
Fig leaves - is a clear attempt to "cover up" their own sin
- is also an immediate death to the intimacy in their
In The Beginning Page 17

- is also an immediate death to the intimacy in their
marriage
8 Then the man and his wife heard the sound of the LORD God as he
was walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and they hid from the
LORD God among the trees of the garden.
Heard the sound - God the Son, walking in physical form in His
creation
LORD God - the covenant making God
They hid - immediate death (2:17) to their intended relationship
with God
Among the trees - God's provision is now misused as a barrier from
Him
9 But the LORD God called to the man, “Where are you?”
Where are you - God already knows the answer
- the question is relational, not informational
- God is drawing Adam & Eve out of their hiding
10 He answered, “I heard you in the garden, and I was afraid because I
was naked; so I hid.”
Heard you - Adam's hearing the presence of the LORD is near
Was afraid - Adam's response is now FEAR of instead of LOVE for
God
11 And he said, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten
from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from?”
Who told you - God already knows the answer
- the question is educational, not informational
- God is showing Adam & Eve the result of not
trusting Him
In The Beginning Page 18

12 The man said, “The woman you put here with me—she gave me
some fruit from the tree, and I ate it.”
Woman you put here - Adam first blames God for his own sin
She gave me - Adam then blames Eve for his own sin
13 Then the LORD God said to the woman, “What is this you have
done?” The woman said, “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.”
What is this - God already knows the answer
- The question is educational, not informational
- God is showing the source of their mistrust of
God
The Takeaway:
God responds to sin with compassion and mercy by drawing Adam &
Eve back to Him and teaching them through their failure. This is the
same way He wants to respond to us. We must choose to hide from
Him or come to Him.
In The Beginning Page 19

Specific Consequences
Monday, August 8, 2022 10:26 AM
The Shared Consequences
Genesis 3:14-25
Key Thought:
The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for us to
understand God's relationship to humanity.
Chapter 1: Origin of everything: THAT God created
Chapter 2: Origin of humanity: HOW & WHY God created
Chapter 3: Origin of sin & the consequences: WHAT HAPPENED to
creation
God's FIRST response was to call Adam back to Him
Notice the Reverse order:
Question to Adam who mentions Eve
Question to Eve who mentions the serpent
Curse on the serpent
Judgement on Eve
Judgement on Adam
14 So the LORD God said to the serpent, “Because you have done this,
“Cursed are you above all livestock and all wild animals! You will crawl
on your belly and you will eat dust all the days of your life.
LORD - the covenant name for God
Cursed - this is the first curse in the Bible, Adam & Eve are NOT
cursed
- there is a play on words here Cursed(ah-RUH) / crafty(ah-
ROOM)
Have done this - just like the question God asked Eve previously
In The Beginning Page 20

Have done this - just like the question God asked Eve previously
You will crawl - it is possible that snakes had legs, but not
necessary
Eat dust - eat/lick the dust is a sign of subjugation (Ps72:9, Is 49:43,
Mic 7:17)
- it is also possible God's curse is for the serpent to "live"
in the death
of man, who returns to dust
15 And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between
your offspring and hers; he will crush your head, and you will strike his
heel.”
Enmity - there is an objective hostility between Satan and
Humanity
You and the woman - here the "seeds" are contrasted
- the power behind the serpent, not just the
animal
Crush your head - Proto-evangelum, the first mention of the
Messiah
16 To the woman he said, “I will make your pains in childbearing very
severe; with painful labor you will give birth to children. Your desire will
be for your husband, and he will rule over you.”
To the woman - Eve is judged as a mother and a wife, all women in
her
Pains in childbearing - exactly as it describes
Your desire - this is not emotional / physical, but desire to
dominate (4:7)
Rule over you - Adam was created to LEAD his wife, not RULE
Sin caused lasting damage to our relationship with God and each
other
In The Beginning Page 21

Notice, there is NO CURSE for Eve,
only the promise of the Messiah
17 To Adam he said, “Because you listened to your wife and ate fruit
from the tree about which I commanded you, ‘You must not eat from it,’
“Cursed is the ground because of you; through painful toil you will eat
food from it all the days of your life.
To Adam - The federal head of humanity
Listened to - not just 'hearing' but also 'heeding' or obeying instead
of God
Ate fruit - this is the direct act of disobedience
CURSED is the ground - Adam's authority was over the planet itself
Because of you - because of Adam's authority, the curse is wide
spread
Toil you will eat - "painful toil" is the same words used for Eve
18 It will produce thorns and thistles for you, and you will eat the plants
of the field.
It will produce - the ground itself is now cursed and scarred by sin
For you - the curse is on the ground, because of humanity
19 By the sweat of your brow you will eat your food until you return to
the ground, since from it you were taken; for dust you are and to dust
you will return.”
Sweat of your brow - provision is no longer given freely, it is
worked for
Will eat - humanity needs to eat to live
Return to the ground - the two part nature of mankind's created
state
In The Beginning Page 22

20 Adam named his wife Eve, because she would become the mother of
all the living.
named his wife - the action also denotes authority/leadership, not
domination
mother of all - mitochondrial eve, the mother of all living human
beings
21 The LORD God made garments of skin for Adam and his wife and
clothed them.
LORD God - the covenant making name for the God of Israel
Garments of skin - the first "blood" shed in response to human sin
Clothed them - This is God's first response, lit. "to put on a
garment"
- God HIMSELF is the subject of the verbs
- God's covering for sin is permanent, unlike fig
leaves
22 And the LORD God said, “The man has now become like one of us,
knowing good and evil. He must not be allowed to reach out his hand
and take also from the tree of life and eat, and live forever.”
AND EVIL - the problem was not knowing "good" but EVIL
Live forever - with the Tree of Life, eternal life in obedience to God
is seen
23 So the LORD God banished him from the Garden of Eden to work the
ground from which he had been taken.
LORD God - the covenant name for God
Banished - disobedience brings consequences
- Israel was about to enter the Promised Land
In The Beginning Page 23

- Israel was about to enter the Promised Land
- Blessing & Provision are muted through obedience
24 After he drove the man out, he placed on the east side of the Garden
of Eden cherubim and a flaming sword flashing back and forth to guard
the way to the tree of life.
guard the way - the expulsion from the Garden is an act of grace
it keeps us from:
- finding deeper avenues of sin
- being returned to immortal & incorruptible
- the Tree of Life in Revelation 22:1-2 is waiting
The Takeaway:
While we live in a world scarred by sin and its consequences. A
Savior has come to fix the fall and a glorious future awaits all those
who trust in Christ's shed blood for the "covering" of their sin. We
will once again be immortal and incorruptible in right relationship
with our Creator God.
In The Beginning Page 24

Faith After The Fall
Monday, July 18, 2022 6:22 PM
Faith After The Fall
Genesis 4:1-17
Key Thought:
The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for us to
understand God's relationship to humanity.
Chapter 1: Origin of everything: THAT God created
Chapter 2: Origin of humanity: HOW & WHY God created
Chapter 3: Origin of sin & the consequences: WHAT HAPPENED to
creation
Chapter 4: The fallen world: HOW GOD RELATES to fallen humanity
1 Adam made love to his wife Eve, and she became pregnant and gave
birth to Cain. She said, “With the help of the LORD I have brought forth
a man.”
Became pregnant - God's blessing in 1:28 had not been diminished
With the help of - this is NOT in the Hebrew text, it is an
interpretation
Literal Hebrew translation: "I have received a male, the LORD"
LORD - Jehovah, the covenant name for God
2 Later she gave birth to his brother Abel. Now Abel kept flocks, and
Cain worked the soil.
Later - the Scripture doesn't say how much time has passed
Kept flocks - Abel was a shepherd
Worked the soil - Cain was a farmer
In The Beginning Page 25

3 In the course of time Cain brought some of the fruits of the soil as an
offering to the LORD.
In the course of time - another reference to an unknown amount
of time
Some of the fruits - Cain brought "leftovers" as offering
Offering - worshiping the LORD was a normal part of life "course of
time"
LORD - despite sin and its consequences, covenant relationship is
still here
4 And Abel also brought an offering—fat portions from some of the
firstborn of his flock. The LORD looked with favor on Abel and his
offering,
Also brought an offering - Cain is not an exception, worship is
normative
Firstborn of his flock - Abel brought the "first & best" for his
offering
Looked with favor - God receives Abel's offering because of his
conduct (first and best), not because of its content (flesh vs fruit)
5 but on Cain and his offering he did not look with favor. So Cain was
very angry, and his face was downcast.
Did not look with favor - Cain could not dictate a "proper offering"
to God
Was very angry - Cain wanted God's approval, his reactions proves
it
6 Then the LORD said to Cain, “Why are you angry? Why is your face
downcast?
In The Beginning Page 26

downcast?
7 If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? But if you do not do
what is right, sin is crouching at your door; it desires to have you, but
you must rule over it.”
If you do what is right - God alone determines right from wrong
If you do not do - the measure of morality is God's, the
responsibility is ours
Sin is crouching -
It desires to have you - this is the same as the previous chapter, to
dominate
You must rule over it - Cain is a believer, he worships, and speaks
with God, just like us, he is a fallen faithful person
8 Now Cain said to his brother Abel, “Let’s go out to the field.” While
they were in the field, Cain attacked his brother Abel and killed him.
Said to his brother - jealousy & anger lead to planning of sin
Let's go - Cain invites his brother maliciously
Attacked/killed - two separate verbs, even here there was a chance
to relent
9 Then the LORD said to Cain, “Where is your brother Abel?” “I don’t
know,” he replied. “Am I my brother’s keeper?”
LORD said to Cain - the covenant God is still in relationship with
Cain
Where is your brother - another example of a "teaching question"
I don’t know - a flat out lie, of course he knew, he killed him
Am I - Cain's defiant attitude is illustrated in his words
10 The LORD said, “What have you done? Listen! Your brother’s blood
cries out to me from the ground.
In The Beginning Page 27

cries out to me from the ground.
LORD - God's covenant name
Brother's blood - God's omniscient knowledge of Abel's death
From the ground - a key element of creation and covenant
11 Now you are under a curse and driven from the ground, which
opened its mouth to receive your brother’s blood from your hand.
12 When you work the ground, it will no longer yield its crops for you.
You will be a restless wanderer on the earth.”
Under a curse - this is a blessing considering the response should
be death
From the ground - another example of "the ground" as an element
Restless wanderer - this in effect makes him a shepherd
13 Cain said to the LORD, “My punishment is more than I can bear.
My punishment - also, my guilt, depravity, iniquity
Can bear - to "bear away" is to carry away or forgive
Cain is saying: "My evil is too much to forgive!" He is remorseful
14 Today you are driving me from the land, and I will be hidden from
your presence; I will be a restless wanderer on the earth, and whoever
finds me will kill me.”
From the land - the source of God's provision
From your presence - the intimacy in relationship to God
Whoever finds me - Gen 5:4 "other sons and daughters"
15 But the LORD said to him, “Not so; anyone who kills Cain will suffer
vengeance seven times over.” Then the LORD put a mark on Cain so
In The Beginning Page 28

vengeance seven times over.” Then the LORD put a mark on Cain so
that no one who found him would kill him.
LORD said to him - God's covenant name & relationship
LORD put a mark - the mark was one of PROTECTION for a son
16 So Cain went out from the LORD’s presence and lived in the land of
Nod, east of Eden.
17 Cain made love to his wife, and she became pregnant and gave birth
to Enoch. Cain was then building a city, and he named it after his son
Enoch.
Cain's wife - Gen 5:4 "other sons and daughters"
The Takeaway:
Cain worshiped God, sinned horribly, and was still loved and protected
by God. He is an example to us of God's love for His people even when
we fail Him miserably. Under God's protection, Cain experienced the
earthly consequences of his sin. God's love does not automatically
erase sin's earthly consequences.
In The Beginning Page 29

Outline for Field Guide
Monday, August 8, 2022 11:35 AM
Scripture outline:
Gen 1:1 -The Origin of Everything
Gen 1:2-2:3 -The Six Day Creation
Gen 2:4-9 -The Two Trees of Eden
Gen 2:10-17 -The First Commandment
Gen 2:18-25 -The First Marriage
Gen 3:1-7 -The First Sin
Gen 3:8-13 -The Shared Consequences
Gen 3:14-24 -The Specific Consequences
Gen 4:1-7 -The Requirement of Worship
Gen 4:8-16 -The Grace of God
In The Beginning Page 30