Good morning and welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I am privileged to be able to share from the Word of God with you today. Here at Catalyst we are about one thing and one thing only and that is loving people to life change. And we're going to do that this morning. But before we do, I need to tell you two very important things. First, those of you who regularly worship with us, you may notice some smaller younger faces in our congregation up here this morning. That is because on the fifth Sunday of the month, we have what we call Family Sunday, and rather than our elementary age children being downstairs in their own worship service, which is how they are every other week, they are joining us this morning to be able to worship with their families. I think that's super important. The other reason I think that's going to be great is today we are going to continue the teaching series we began last week called In the Beginning. And this is going to be a little different than your average Sunday sermon because I'm going to ask you as we go through the text to ask questions, especially parents who have your children. Today we're in Genesis chapter 2, we're going to talk about Adam and Eve. I guarantee you your children have questions that they would love to ask in church. So this is what I want you to do. Those of you parents who have your children sitting with you, let them ask your questions. Let them ask you. You go ahead and use the phone and submit the question. And you know what, Melanie? I realize I left my iPad charging on my desk. So if somebody could run to my office and grab my iPad, it's not going to help if I can't have the questions fed to me up here. So while they finish that, I will go ahead and give you the where we're going this morning. So we're continuing In the Beginning. This morning we're going to talk about Adam and Eve, our intended relationship with God. The text for this morning is going to be Genesis chapter 2, verses 4 through 25. The reason we're starting at verse 4 is it was really verses 1, 2, and 3 of chapter 2 that are more thematically related to chapter 1 than it is to chapter 2. So we ended last week going chapter 2, verses 1, 2, and 3. Just to give you the basic overview of where we were in chapter 1, Genesis 1, 1 tells us where everything came from. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Or in the New International Bill translation, in the beginning, God done created everything. Then after God created Genesis 1, 1, in Genesis 1, 2, we began to focus specifically on the planet that you and I live on. We began to focus just on earth. And we watched how God crafted and created all of planet earth. And then it was good, and it was good, and it was good, and it was good, and it was good. But then on the sixth day it was very good. Creation was very good. And this is actually, we had a couple questions come in at the end of last week that because I was running way over on time, I did not get a chance to address. So as I'm giving you the overview from Genesis 1, I want to go ahead and tackle a few of the questions. One of the questions was, was creation very good because there was no sin? The direct answer is both yes and no. Yes, it is true that in Genesis 1 creation had no sin, and yes, that is a good thing. But when Genesis 1 says, and it was very good, the only thing that's different is because Adam is now placed as God's regent, his representative in charge of creation. All of Genesis 1, God creates everything. He crafts the planet. He then creates the ground and the air and the atmosphere and the water. He then creates all the plants. He creates all the animals. But creation was not very good until humanity was in its rightful place in relationship with God and in stewardship of our planet. So that's why everything was very good. The second question was, because God is able to create everything instantly, is there a significance to the six-day creation versus life just instantly coming into existence? Yes, there absolutely is. But it's not significance in the sense of the number is special, right? I know there's a whole study out there called biblical numerology, and we go through the Bible and we look at certain numbers. And yes, certain numbers do tend to get repeated an awful lot in Scripture, and we shouldn't discount that. But that doesn't make the number, you know, magical in some way. Why did God choose to create in six days? Well, I would argue He still created something by resting on the seventh day, because it says, and then God rested and He made the day holy. So I would say the reason, because the question is, is God powerful enough to just create everything in a single instance by His spoken word? Absolutely. He could have created that way. Why did He choose to do it? Well, a lot of times when we come to Scripture and we ask why, we got to remember we're in the finite creation. That's like the pot asking the potter, why did you make me this way? But when I could say, well, what do I learn from the way God did it? What I learn is the way that we've kept time all throughout human history. How many days are in a week? Where do you think you got that from? Like atheists and Christian alike, we all have a seven day week, and no one has ever questioned that we have a seven day week. You know why? Because in my opinion, that's the overall big part that God, when God put all the luminaries in the sky, what did He say? This is for the passing of time and seasons and holy days. So to answer the question, why did God choose to create in six days, I would submit to you that He was creating what you and I now know as a standard week. And He was instilling into that week the necessity of rest, the necessity of Sabbath. And those of you who work really hard, you know how good rest feels. It was just about two years ago that my wife and I really delved deep into the topic of Sabbath-ing and what does it mean to actively rest? Sabbath is an active rest. God didn't rest because He was tired. God didn't rest because He was exhausted of godness or energy. He rested on purpose to show us we were created for rest. Next question, were only Adam and Eve made first or were multiple people made? So this, I can answer this both theologically and biologically. So Adam and Eve are the progenitors of the entire human race. God did not handcraft any other people after He handcrafted Adam and Eve. That is the clear teaching of Scripture. Interestingly enough, a few years ago, microbiologists trying to find the mythical tree of evolution, right, where everybody stems from one thing, they did actually scientifically prove that all human beings are descended from a single female progenitor. Do you know what the scientists named that female? Mitochondrial Eve. Yes. So if you wanted to grab your phone and you Google Mitochondrial Eve, you'll find the research. All of human beings were descent, I guarantee somebody just did that, right? Mitochondrial Eve is the name. All human beings are descended from a single female ancestor. The Bible says, and I will call her Eve because she is the mother of mankind. So just another example of how modern scientific research does actually prove what the Bible says is true. And then the final question is, why did God pick earth? This one's probably my favorite because I have to admit to you, I don't know. I told you when we started this, I'm welcoming any question as long as you will allow me the privilege of saying, I don't know. Why did God pick earth? I don't know. When we get to eternity, we can ask Him. What I can say is, why did God craft earth? Why do we see earth crafted the way it was in Genesis 1? Because God was creating a habitat for you and I to live in a relationship with Him. The overarching lesson of Genesis 1, 1 to 2, 3 is God created everything and then God crafted planet earth, the planet you and I live on with the unique features so that you and I would be able to thrive, to have a relationship with Him and to be responsible to Him and live in stewardship. So with that said, that's the review of last week. I do apologize. I went super long last week. I'm gonna do a better job of watching my time this week. Let me go ahead and give you the key thought that's gonna take these four weeks together. The opening chapters of the Bible set the theological stage for us to understand God's relationship to humanity. So I'm going to read for you Genesis chapter 2. I'm gonna start reading in verse 4 and I'm gonna take it to verse 25 which is the end of chapter 2. After we read it, we'll then start going through the text. Those you should have received a handout when you walked in this morning. You'll notice a line that's highlighted in yellow right there on your handout. If at any point as I am going through the text this morning, you come across a passage that you would like to ask a question about, you'll be able to scan that code with your phone and ask whatever question you like and we'll be able to see. I'll be able to see them. They're gonna put them up here on my iPad and we'll answer questions as we go. So here we go. This is Genesis chapter 2. I begin reading in verse 4. This is the account of the heavens and the earth when they were created, when the Lord God made the earth and the heavens. Now no shrub had yet appeared on the earth and no plant had yet sprang up for the Lord God had not sent rain on the earth and there was no one to work the ground. But streams came up from the earth and watered the whole surface of the ground. Verse 7. Then the Lord God formed a man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And the man became a living being. Now the Lord God planted a garden in the east in Eden and there he put the man he had formed. The Lord God made all kinds of trees to grow out of the ground, the trees that were pleasing to the eye and good for food. In the middle of the garden were the tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. A river watering the garden flowed from Eden. From there it separated into four headwaters. The name of the first was Pishon. It winds through the entire land of Havala where there is gold. Gold of that land is good aromatic resin and onyx are also there. The name of the second river is the Gaihan. It winds through the entire land of Kush. The name of the third river is the Tigris. It runs along the east side of the Asher and the fourth river is the Euphrates. The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden to work it and to take care of it. And the Lord God commanded the man, you are free to eat from any tree in the garden but you must not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. For when you eat from it you will certainly die. Then the Lord said, it is not good for man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him. Now the Lord God formed out of the ground all the wild animals and all the birds of the sky. He brought them to the man to see what he would name them. And whatever he called each living creature that was its name. So the man gave names to all the livestock and the birds and the sky and all the wild animals. But for Adam no suitable helper was found. So the Lord God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep and while he was sleeping he took one of the man's ribs then closed up the place with flesh. Then the Lord God made woman from the rib. He had taken out of the man and he brought her to the man. The man said, this is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman for she was taken out of man. That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife and they become one flesh. Adam and his wife were both naked and felt no shame. All right so I just need to get situated a little bit. So what I would like to do is now we're gonna start going back through this verse by verse. Make sure you have your hand out there. If you want to go ahead and save yourself some time scan the question form once with your phone. The question form will auto reload. If you are joining us online and you would like to ask a question and you happen to be watching the service in real time you can go to catalyst302.com slash beginning and there is a button right there on the webpage that will give you the same access as those who are here on our campus and you can also ask a question. So let's go back to verse 4 and I want to answer the first question which somebody's probably thinking although it may not be asked yet. Why does chapter 2 tell the creation of man a second time? So one of the main accusations that's been made against the Bible as to why it is unreliable and we should look at this as his mythology instead of theological history is the fact that in chapter 1 God created man and woman and then in chapter 2 God creates man and woman again. And so someone who is looking at the Bible who does not believe it's God's Word who does not believe that it's infallible they're gonna say well you're telling two different creation stories and they conflict several the details of chapter 1 so that's why it's not true. Here let me explain something. Chapter 1 explains that God created mankind. That's all it says that God created he creates the cosmos he shapes planet earth. Chapter 1 God creates that God creates mankind. But chapter 2 tells us how and why God creates mankind. These are not conflicting ideas. They do not have to be in conflict with one another. Chapter 1 tells us that God creates but chapter 2 tells us two very important things. How God creates man and that's important so that we understand the two-part nature of humanity. That's very important as you go through the rest of Scripture to understand that you and I as we sit here if you're watching online as you sit wherever you're sitting you are a two-part creature. There is part of you that is fleshly that is earthy that is physical and there is part of you that is not. There is a part of you that is eternal in the sense of you will actually transcend beyond this life. There's a part of you that transcends to the afterlife. How do we explain this material and immaterial nature of humanity? Atheistic evolution has zero explanation for this because atheist evolution can only explain natural stuff. Natural things make more natural things. Something physical can never be the cause of something non-physical or immaterial. Material doesn't cause immaterial. So if I understand that you and I have an immaterial nature I need to answer the why. Chapter 2 tells me the why. He formed Adam from the ground and breathed into him. So chapter 2 is very important for teaching us how and why. So let's look at verse 4. This is the account of the heavens and the earth when they were created when the Lord God made the earth and the heavens. Does anybody's Bible have the word Lord in all capital letters? Okay a couple people. Here's the other thing you need to understand of why chapter 2 is so important. Those of you who have capital Lord in your Bibles go back to chapter 1. You'll notice it's not there. Chapter 1 only says God created. Chapter 2 says the Lord God created. You want to know why it says that? Because in the scriptures especially in the Hebrew Old Testament there are multiple words used for God's name. Chapter 1 uses the plural Elohim. If you've ever heard that word before that is the plural name of God. It illustrates not only his plurality Father Son and Spirit but also his majesty. How great he is. Chapter 2 adds a word to Elohim. Yahweh Elohim. It's the first instance of the divine covenant name of God in all of scripture. Happens right here in chapter 2 verse 4. And then Yahweh Elohim. Now let's just rewind for a second. Who wrote the book of Genesis? The human author who wrote the book of Genesis? Moses right? Moses is famous for the big Exodus story. Right? He grows up in Egypt spends 40 years in the wilderness in Midian goes back 10 plagues bam. Prince of Egypt awesome music parting of the Red Sea goes up to Sinai brings down the covenant right? Moses understands that God is a covenant-making God. He understood that from the burning bush. He understood that at the 10 plagues. He understood that crossing the Red Sea and he understood that on Sinai. Yahweh is the personal covenant name for the God of Israel. If Moses is the one who is writing the Pentateuch which is the traditional answer for all of time. Moses understands that God is a covenant-making God. The reason we go back to chapter 2 and start saying Yahweh Elohim or Lord God is to directly relate the God of chapter 1 who created everything with the God of chapter 2. The God who makes covenants for his people. There's something that we don't get in English that you automatically see when you start looking at the different names for God. So we got a question. Why did God make Adam and Eve naked and would we be too if there was no sin? Yeah. I think that's a great like I said we got kids in church today. It's gonna get real fun. So just put put your seat back tray tables and they're upright and locked position and let's have a little fun. Why did God create Adam and Eve naked? Because without sin there is no shame. Right? The very last verse of chapter 2. They were naked and felt no shame. Why? Because there was no reason for nakedness to be shameful. Because there was no reason for nakedness to be sinful. So God didn't have to make Dolce and Gabbana suits for Adam and Eve because there is no shame where there is no sin. Can I give you a modern-day analogy for this? Absolutely. Husbands and wives can often dress in front of one another with little to no shame. Why? Because intimacy between husband and wife there is no shame and where there is no sin there is no shame. Or the husband intimacy between husband and wife contains no sin and without sin there is no shame. So why did God create them that way? Because no sin equals no shame. Next one. Why is Adam blamed for the fall of humanity when Eve sinned first? That's a fantastic question. I love it. Who asked that one? Okay, here's what you need to know. I love you. That's a great question. But I need you to wait till we get to chapter 3 so I can fully answer it in detail. Because the fall is next week. And trust me, that question, like that's the pay dirt gold of chapter 3. When you look at God's punishment for sin and what punishments were issued to Eve and what punishments were issued to Adam and why does God do what he does? Super valuable. But Fred just put a pin in it. Next week we will get into that in very good detail. Alright, so chapter 4, there verse 4, the very beginning we learn we are now talking about the covenant God. This is the covenant God who saves his people, who redeems his people, who saves us today. This links us theologically not only to the God who creates but to the God who saves. And that's super important because that's why chapter 2 is not a remake or a redo of chapter 1. It is a depth in. To give you the technical terms, chapter 1 is the ontological nature of man, why man belongs. Chapter 2 is the theological nature of man, how we relate to God. So now let's move on, let's look at verse 5. Verse 5, now no shrub had appeared yet on the earth and no plant had yet sprung up for the Lord, Yahweh God, had not sent rain on the earth and there was no one to work the ground. Now somebody's gonna ask, didn't we just create all kinds of plants in chapter 1? We totally did. We totally created all kinds of plants, everything that we could eat. The word shrub here in the, we are using the word shrub. In the Hebrew it really means a nuisance kind of plant. A thorny thistle in the way, weedy kind of plant, not a nutritious plant. And that's gonna get into Adam's punishments. All of a sudden at the end of chapter 3 we see thorns, thistles work the ground. What I do think is interesting is we see that pre-fall, pre-sin, Adam still had a job to do. He still had to care for the garden and serve God. But no shrub there in verse 5, it refers to nuisance weedy plants, plants that are in the way that you'd have to move out of the way in order to cultivate. Because remember, who's the primary receptive audience for the book of Genesis? Moses and his contemporaries. Did the people who lived in ancient Egypt know how to farm? Yes. Egypt figured out how to take the power of the Nile and dig in tributaries in order to saturate the land and grow these massive amounts of wheat. They obviously understood how to pull the weeds from a garden. So that's what that verse there means. And it also says that the Lord God had not yet sent rain on the earth. Why? Because when I get to the story of Noah we're going to see that rain is a punishment for sin. And since we are pre-fallen there is no sin, there is no punishment. Now we move to verse 6. But streams came up from the earth and watered the whole surface of the ground. These two verses, 5 and 6, are doing two very important things theologically. They are reminding us that in the grand scheme of salvation history we're in a moment where there is no sin. You and I have born into a world that is scarred by sin from the very first time we took a breath. Adam and Eve were created into a world that was not. They did not have sin. And we're seeing that even the physical geomechanics of the planet, the hydrodynamic cycle of the planet was different before the flood of Noah in chapter 11. Actually chapter 9, 10, 11. Now some will say, well was the flood of Noah a local flood versus a global flood? I've heard this argument before. This is a nuanced argument but this is what I'll say. I believe that the word of God is true and I believe that means the word of God is true in everything it says. Now, Bible is not a scientific textbook. I can't take the Bible into a chemistry lab and figure out that Na2Cl is, anybody know? Double points Ryan, yes, table salt. Sodium chloride, Na2Cl is the chemical signature for what you and I consume as table salt. Now is that a true statement? Totally is. Did I learn that from the scriptures? Totally no. So that doesn't mean that the Bible is exhaustive knowledge of everything humans can learn. But I believe what the Bible says about things is true. So the Bible describes the flood as a global event. It also describes a major change in the geological mechanics of our planet. And that's why I believe we have some very big differences between if you try to read the present and then calculate it back in the past, you're reading a present planet that's already under the effects of sin. Whereas here in Genesis 1-2, we're pre-sin, pre-effects and it's very, very different. Verse 7, Amen in Hebrew. Do you know what the word man is in Hebrew? It's Adam, A-D-A-M. That's where we get Adam's name from. It's literally the Hebrew word for man. Verse 7 is where we understand the constitution of a human being. You are part material and part immaterial. You are part flesh and part spirit. And you were made that way by your Creator. We don't have to try to explain. Where do we get things like personality, right? Personality, a will, a conscience, love. There are things about us that are immaterial as a part of our very fiber. And it's important that we have those things. There is also a part of every human being that is spiritually eternal. That's why the gospel is important, right? If we truly believe that every single person has an eternal soul and we believe that Jesus is the only way to be saved, that means every single person has an eternal dinner reservation already made. You only choose between the smoking section and the non-smoking section. But if you don't believe this right here in Genesis 2-7 and you believe that there are some people that just cease to exist, that's called annihilationism. That human beings just stop existing at the point of death. There is nothing beyond death. I would say that even scientifically you can't really prove that. There's a ton of evidence out there for near-death experiences that makes a fantastic argument from our side of the Christian faith for the evidence of an afterlife. I can't get into all that today, but this is why in Genesis 2-7 I can stand here and appeal to you because I'm not just talking to the physical gray matter of your brain. I'm trying to appeal to the immaterial, holy, spiritual nature of your soul that we are fed from the Word of God. So 2-7, that's where we get the Constitution of Man. And when I look at 2-4 all the way to 2-7, I see our intended relationship with God, right? Our intended relationship with God is we're on a planet that He made for us. We're in relationship to Him and we have a responsibility to Him. Now I move to chapter 2 verse 8. Now I'm going to move into our intended responsibility to God. Oh, question. If God made Adam from the dust, did he have a belly button? I love this question. This is why kids need to be in church more often. Because no self-respecting adult is going to ask the belly button question, but everybody knows they want the answer. So here's the simple answer. The Bible doesn't specifically say. Just as much as you know what the Bible doesn't say. The Bible doesn't say what Adam's skin tone was. No, it don't. In fact, I would argue the Bible only says there's one race. There is a human race. There is no other race on this planet other than us who are designed in God's image to be His image bearers and to be humans. If you attempt to make any sort of modern day racial understanding of Adam, you are transitioning outside of Scripture. Adam was created perfect in the image of God. The only way I can answer the belly button question is this. In our modern day understanding of human physiology, the belly button was our connection originally to our mother's womb. Adam did not have a mother's womb. Adam was handcrafted by the holy hands of God Himself. So I would say since Scripture doesn't say he has a belly button, but since I know the purpose of a belly button and I know Adam did not grow in his mother's womb, I would be on the side of probably not. I can't be on the side of exactly no because the text doesn't let me know that. I'm never going to come to you and tell you a guarantee that the Bible doesn't give a guarantee for it. But the Bible does say he was handcrafted by God. Now, maybe God likes belly buttons, right? Maybe God chose and I could say that God could have chose. But since we do understand medically what a belly button is and Adam did not have did not grow in a mother's womb, I'm going to be on the side of probably not. All right. Verse 8. Now, the Lord God planted a garden in the east in Eden, and there he put man. Here's another super important thing to understand. The name of the garden is not Eden. Let me say that again. We often call it the Garden of Eden. It's actually the garden in Eden. Eden was a much larger place of ground and within the place of Eden is the garden. Just as much as I could say is within the state of Delaware is our campus. Our campus is not the whole of the state of Delaware, but our campus exists within the state of Delaware. It's just a common misconception. The garden's name is Garden. But so often we hear it said the Garden of Eden, the Garden of Eden. That's not actually what the Bible says. Look at what it says here in verse 8. Now, the Lord God planted a garden in the east in Eden, and there he put the man he had formed. I learned two very important things from verse 8. Number one, the garden was specifically selected and created by God in the same way that the entire planet was selected and created in chapter one. And it was created for what purpose? To be Adam's dwelling place. The word Eden literally translates to bliss or delight. That's the Hebrew translation of the word Eden. Bliss or delight. When I also see that in verse 9, the Lord God made all kinds of trees to grow out of the ground. Trees that were pleasing to the eye and good for food. Let me take just the first part of verse 9. God creates in the place of blessing, the place of delight, the place of bliss, a garden that contains all the food that Adam would ever need. What is God doing? God is creating a place of provision and blessing and bliss for the regent of his creation to serve him. In right relationship with God, we find both provision and blessing. I don't have to get all the way to Deuteronomy and Numbers to learn that lesson. I can learn it right here in chapter 2. God designed us to be in relationship with him and be in bliss and in blessing. But also notice that in verse 9, God makes the trees pleasing to the eye and good for food. This is something I'm...has anyone ever been struck by the beauty of creation? Right? Whether it's driving down a mountainside, whether it's watching a sunrise, whether it's looking at the stars, whether it's looking out over the beach. Did you ever realize that God could have made our planet functional without making it fashionable? Didn't have to be pretty. All food could be brown. All food. Not just vegetables, right? Ice cream is obviously going to be great. But he could have made all food the same color. All food could have been mushy. No texture. When God creates this place for Adam to live in blessed relationship with him, he doesn't just take into account Adam's needs. He makes it beautiful. And even though our planet has been scarred by sin, there is a reminiscent beauty. Scripture says, the beauty of the heavens declare the glory of God. We can still see that God cared enough about us not just to make it functional, but to make it beautiful. Now, in the middle of the garden were the tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. So let's go ahead and pause here for a minute. The tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Has anybody ever seen like artist illustrations of the Garden of Eden? They only have one tree in the middle? I have. I've seen...I've actually seen a lot of them. Most people forget there's two trees in the middle of the garden. One is called the tree of life. The other is the knowledge of good and evil. So let's talk about what each of these trees does and what they don't do. So the tree of life. Humanity is designed perfect and without sin to live in relationship to God. If I know that the punishment for sin is death, then I have to ask myself, before death, could Adam have been immortal? So it's a major theological debate. Was Adam created immortal or mortal? Since the immaterial nature of man...we're going to get super deep here for a second. So those of you who need an air break, take a break. I'll be right back. Because man is created material and immaterial and the immaterial nature of us is already immortal, I'm going to argue that Adam was never physically immortal. But because he could live in right relationship and blessing to God, he had access to eternal life. That's the tree. I fall on the theological side that the tree itself, if he continued to eat of it, could have lived eternally in right relationship with God, which is exactly what I get in Christ in the New Testament. That's why I argue it this way. I believe that in this garden, this tree provided everlasting eternal life to live in the blessing and the fullness and the bliss of God. That's why when Jesus comes, he has to fix the fall. The second Adam has to fix what the first Adam got wrong. Why? So that you and I have a chance at a future of living in a blessed, perfect world without sin in right relationship with God. Scripture comes right back around to where we started. So I'm on the side of the tree of life provides kind of like what we would think of as the Ponce de Leon, the fountain of youth. I'm going to say the tree of life extends man's life indefinitely as long as we live in obedience. So the tree that's right next to, and I don't think it's a mistake. I don't think God makes a mistake putting these two trees right at the center of the garden. One tree offers eternal life. The other tree offers death. And what's the only difference? All you got to do is live in obedience. And we're not even talking like we're not even talking about a complicated system of laws at this point. We're talking about y'all don't eat that one tree. Go eat the other hundred trees that are there. But by placing these two trees next to one another, the tree that grants eternal life and the tree that brings death, God sets up a system where in order to live in blissful, in blissful relationship and provision with him, the only thing required of humanity is obedience. I would argue the gospel offers the same opportunity to every human being. The only thing that it takes to live in right, blessed, fulfilled relationship with God is obedience. Because a lot of people ask me, well, why does God put the tree that kills Adam in the middle of the garden? Because God in creating creation wasn't just making a place for us to like kick back and enjoy blessing. It was for us to kick back and enjoy blessing in obedient relationship to our creator by putting the one. And keep in mind, it says he created all kinds of trees to eat, but only one tree that could you could not eat. That one tree guaranteed obedience for Adam and Eve. They had to willingly and keep in mind they had to willingly walk up to the tree that gives eternal life. And while they're eating of whatever that was, they're standing next to the tree that brings death and to say, no, I choose obedience. That's what I believe the message of the two trees is for. It's we get to live in relationship with God. We get to live in blessing. We get to live in right relationship with him when we come to him in obedience. So we got a question. Why would God make two trees if he knew that man would choose sin? Fantastic question. Why would God make two trees if he knew that man would choose sin? I will answer it this way. Buried beneath that question is another question I have to answer first. Why did God let man make choices? Right? Because if God had created humanity as simple automatons, robots who don't get choices, then we never would have had sin. But is that a greater good? Right? Is it truly a greater good to create a creature that isn't free, that is just pre-programmed to say, holy is the Lord God Almighty forever? What do we say? And your mercy endures forever? Like, is it worshipful if I pre-program a robot to tell me that? No, it is not. And here's where I will argue, why does God do this? In order to have true love, you must have freedom to choose. In order to have true love, you must have the freedom to choose. Here's the problem, and I'll quote the contemporary philosopher Alvin Plantinga. The price of making a creation in which creatures can do moral good is to make a creation in which creatures can also do moral evil. If God was to create a creation in which he could have right relationship with mankind, he had to create a creation in which mankind also had the right and the privilege to reject him. And you and I still live in the same situation today. You and I still live with the choice to choose to obey or to choose to reject. It's the same. I know people love to look at the word of God and look back and see that this is mythology. I don't think it's mythology, I think it's present day. I woke up today and I could choose to live in blessed obedience to my creator and I could choose to reject him and experience the consequences of sin. You and I are living in the same situation as Adam and Eve, just not the same creation. We have the right to choose. If Moses is the author of Genesis, why is there two separate accounts of creation in chapter one and chapter two? Because chapter one tells us that God created. Chapter two tells us how and why he created. The details are different because the purpose is different. Chapter one is the ontological beginning of creation. That's why there is something instead of nothing. Chapter two is the creation of man. Theologically why we're made to be in relationship with God. Now I'm going to have to stop here at verse eight because I made myself an out to make sure we actually end church on time. So here's what I want you to do. I just want to ask you a simple question. Do you think you would have been better than Adam and Eve in the garden? Okay, that was supposed to be rhetorical, but I really appreciate the honesty. I appreciate the love, man. Pete, I love you. Now, I want to ask you a simple question. If you and I are faced with the same choice today, we have the opportunity through Christ to live in right, blessed relationship with our Creator and have blessing and fulfillment. Or we have the right to consume sin and choose death. Why do we struggle with this choice? Let me just say that again. The few of you who laughed, I think you got it. Everybody else is like, what? If you have the choice to live in blessing, in right relationship with your Creator, to have an eternal life and an earthly life filled of fulfillment and love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control, provision, you have the right to choose all of that. Why do we struggle to not choose sin that leads to death? One of the reasons why is you and I were born into a world governed by sin. Adam was not. Adam had the ability to say no to sin, and he still said yes. Let's just be honest. He did not have the fallen human nature that you and I are born with. See, there's so much of this meaty good richness in the middle of Genesis. Adam was not born with a fallen human nature and still fell. So if you have a fallen human nature today, I need you to cut yourself a little bit of slack. Because our original progenitor, Adam, did not have one of those, and he still fell. My question to you today is, do you choose obedience in the same way that Adam did? Because here's the other thing. And somebody asked me, and this is going to be my last question, and then we'll pick it up here next week. Except now I've got to remember what I was going to say, because my wife's beauty just really knocked me off my game. Sorry, I look up, oh, that's my wife. Yes. All right, we're talking about Adam talking about obedience, right? I know that was really funny, but literally just watching her just totally took my chance on it. We have the choice to live in obedience, or we have the choice to disobey. Now, we have one thing that Adam did not have. We have the Holy Spirit today. You and I have access to the indwelling Spirit of God that no one in all of the Old Testament had. No one in the four Gospels had. It's not until we, no one in Acts chapter one had the Spirit. It's not until we get to Acts chapter two that all of a sudden the church is given the gift of the Holy Spirit of God. He is like the IOU of all eternity. That's what the Holy Spirit is. The indwelling of the Holy Spirit is the promise of things to come. Jesus saying, bro, I'm good for it. Here's my proof. Hold on to this. This is the collateral for the eternity that I will give you where I will fix the fall. And as the second Adam, I will restore what the first Adam willingly traded. So this is what I want you to do. I want everybody to either take out your cell phone or pull a Kinect card from the chair in front of you, because this is your chance to respond. What is your step today? What are you going to do to respond to the Word of God? Are you going to continue to eat from the tree that brings death? Are you going to continue to drive sin deeper into your life? It's just like planting more poison seeds in your heart, in your marriage, in your family, in your work life, in your relationship with your children. Sin will always bring death. Sin will always bring death. It's the only thing that it knows how to grow on the tree. Right? Or are you going to choose obedience? Obedience to Christ, obedience to the Word. If you're joining us online, you can go right here. Catalyst302.com slash Kinect. You're not out of this. This is your chance to respond as well. Will you choose to live in obedience to God? Or will you choose to continue to consume that which kills, that which means, that which lies, that which brings deceit? As we worship, I want you to reflect on that choice. And I want you to make a decision, make a commitment. That's what the Kinect card is for, is for you to take your next step in your relationship with God. Lord, I come, I confess, now we're here, I find my rest. Without you I fall apart, nor the one that guides my heart. You know it, sing it out. Lord, I need you, oh, I need you, every hour I need you. My wrong defense, my righteousness, oh God, how I need you. Where sin runs deep, your grace is more. Where grace is found is where you are. And where you are, Lord, I am free. Holiness is Christ in me. And Lord, I need you, oh, I need you, every hour I need you. My wrong defense, yes, and my righteousness, oh God, how I need you. I sing this part right here. Teach my song to rise to you. When temptation comes my way. When I cannot stand, I'll fall on you. Jesus, you're my hope and my stay. When I cannot stand, I'll fall on you. Jesus, you're my hope and my stay. Lord, I need you, oh, I need you, every hour I need you. My wrong defense, yes, and my righteousness, oh God, how I need you. Lord, I need you, oh, I need you, every hour I need you. My wrong defense, yes, and my righteousness, oh God, how I need you. You're my wrong defense. You're my wrong defense. My righteousness, oh God, how I need you. You're my wrong defense. And you're my wrong defense. Yes, and my righteousness, oh God, how I need you. You're my wrong defense. My righteousness, oh God, how I need you. Church, while we're in this wonderful atmosphere of worship, ushers, I want to ask that you come forward. I want to challenge us to give to God like we need him. Give to God like we worship him. Not out of compulsion, not out of some sort of vain conceit that God's going to be forced to give back to us, but because he is worthy of all that we can give him. Heavenly Father, we give to you today because you have saved us from death. You have saved us from the death of sin with every breath we take and for the eternal effects in the next life. Lord, we give to you because you are worthy of our worship, worthy of our praise, worthy of our glory, worthy of our honor. Because your name is the name above every name. At that name, all knees will bow and all tongues confess that Jesus is Lord. Lord, we worship you today in your amazing name. Amen.