Good morning, welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being here and being a part of our service. Whether you're seated here in our brick and mortar Wilmington campus, or whether you are part of our online family, thank you for being a part of the service. I am a geek, in case anybody missed that on the Star Wars Sunday a couple of Sundays ago. I have a new tool for you. So before I get into my sermon introduction, those of you who have the Catalyst app, I put in interactive fill-in-the-blank sermon notes that you can fill in right on your phone and then with a touch of a button, email them to yourself. So for those of you who have the Catalyst app, even those of you who are watching online, you can use this in the app. You'll notice the very first announcement at the top, it's blue, it's got a white kind of notebook and it says sermon notes. If you click on that, it is going to open interactive fill-in-the-blank sermon notes right there on your phone. So those of you who like to take notes, in the past several weeks I have a lot of requests to have my sermon notes. I have zero problems sharing them with you, but now you can follow along, fill it in, and then when you get down to the bottom of the page, hit a button and it generates an email and it'll give it to you in the email text and attached as a PDF. I thought that was super easy, another fun way for us to be interactive with the scriptures. So we, as you saw by the intro video, we are beginning a brand new teaching series this morning on the book of James. So we are getting out of the theological, we are also getting out of the topical and going back to the textual, which means we are only going to have one text this morning, we are going to walk through it verse by verse. But something that we haven't done in a little while is the big Bible story. So here we go, we are going to see how many people have good memories, ready? Alright, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth, and on the earth He planted a garden at a place called Eden. Into Eden He made two human beings, Adam and Eve. Then Adam and Eve succumb to the temptation of the enemy, they are kicked out of the garden of Eden, and they have two children, Cain and Abel. Sin continues to run rampant across the earth until basically there is only one righteous person left on the planet. God reaches out to that one righteous man and He says, I'm going to flood the earth, but you have been righteous, so I'm going to have you build a boat, and you will rescue life from the coming flood. That man's name was Noah. Noah builds the ark, it rains for 40 days and 40 nights. Water covers the earth for a little over a year before the water subsides. Ultimately, they leave the ark, humanity is restarted. Then all of a sudden, God tells them, go out, spread, fill the earth. They refuse to do so, and instead stay in one place and begin a building project, to which God has to correct them. The project they were building was the tower of? Babel. Babel, see, I never asked you that one. Good job, Kellyanne, way to be. Gold star. So after the tower of Babel, God changes, infuses humanity with multiple languages. The people spread out, and then out of Mesopotamia, God finds this one dude, and He says, listen, from you, I will build a nation. I will be your God, you will be my people. I will bless those who bless you, I will curse those who curse you. You will live in obedience to me and be blessed in a land that I will give as a forever inheritance to your children. God changed that man's name to? Abraham. Abraham, he was the first patriarch, the first covenant inheritor. Abraham then has two sons, and God repeats that covenant to the younger of his two sons, whose name is? Isaac. Isaac, who then has two sons, and God repeats the covenant a third time to the younger of his sons, who is the third covenant inheritor? Jacob. Jacob, then God speaks to Jacob, changes his name to Israel. Jacob has 12 sons, they sell, the 11 older, sell one of the younger ones into slavery. He goes into the land of Egypt, he's there for a 13-ish years, starts as a slave, finishes in the palace, second command to only Pharaoh, ultimately saving his entire family from death and a famine. That man's name is? Joseph. Joseph, congratulations, we've made it through Genesis. Then the book of Genesis ends with all of God's family moving into the land of Egypt. However, shepherds are like really dirty people in the view of an Egyptian hierarchy, so they move them into a small little land that's away from everything else. Double bonus points, what's the name of the land that the family of Israel moves in Egypt? It begins with a G. Goshen. Goshen, well played. So they move into the land of Goshen, then there's a time period between Genesis and Exodus where there was a Pharaoh who forgot what God did through Joseph, and he enslaves the people of Israel. And then finally they're in slavery, it gets worse, it gets worse, and they cry out for a deliverer. So God raises up a young man born in the palace but ended up having to leave town, spends like 40 years in the backwoods of Midian, gets married, and God sends him back as a deliverer. He gives the 10 plagues of Egypt, he has a really, really awesome staff, and they ultimately part the Red Sea. That man's name was? Moses. Whose sister is? Miriam. And whose older brother is? Aaron. See, if I can ask them in the same order, you're just going to memorize the words all the time. So Moses, Aaron, and Miriam, they lead the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt, worshiping God, they cross the Red Sea, they're worshiping God, they make it to the foot of a very special mountain. Moses goes up to the top of the mountain, and he is receiving the law from God. And while he is doing that, Aaron and Miriam are down at the foot of the mountain and they are leading the children of Israel in apostasy and idol worship. The name of the mountain is? Sinai. Sinai. That's why we call it the Sinai or the Synadic Covenant. They receive the Mosaic Covenant at Mount Sinai, and they begin the process of 40 years of wandering in the wilderness as a result of their disobedience. So they wander for 40 years in the wilderness, and almost the entire generation that experienced the exodus from Egypt is denied the entrance into Canaan. That's what that whole thing is about. However, there are two individuals who remain faithful. Those two individuals said, no, when they send spies into the land, we can do this. God is powerful. One of those two individuals becomes the leader of the nation of Israel. That young man's name was? Joshua. Joshua leads the children of Israel. The River Jordan literally parts or it stands up, just like the Red Sea did when they left. They walk in, they cross into the land of Canaan, they have the Battle of... What's the first battle in the Book of Joshua? Jericho. That's right. They have the Battle of Jericho. They win. They give everything to the Lord. Ultimately, Rahab and her family are saved in that battle. Fantastic story. And now we've moved into the land of Canaan. The problem is the children of Israel still have a disobedience problem, and they begin to chase after their own gods. And before you know it, everybody does what is right in their own eyes. That's the Book of Judges. So now we made it to the Judges period. Everyone does what is right in their own eyes, and they finally fully reject the authority of God, and they ask for their own what? King. King. I want a king like all the other kids have. Right? So they ask for a king. And God says, fine, you're going to ask for a king. I'm going to give you a king. This is really hard to remember all this. I'm going to give you a king, but he is going to enslave you. He is going to conscript your sons into the army. He's going to tax you, and he's going to take your daughters for his harem. The first king of the United Monarchy of Israel is... Saul. Saul, followed by... David. David, followed by... Solomon. Solomon, followed by... I was waiting for so long. Civil War. Civil War. That's right. Civil War breaks out among God's people, and for the whole middle section of the Old Testament, there is a northern kingdom and a southern kingdom. How many tribes are in the northern kingdom? Ten. So those of you who are good at math, how many in the southern kingdom? Two. Two. The northern kingdom's name is... Israel. Israel, and the southern kingdom's name is... That's right. I love how everybody goes, ten. And then when I ask, what's the name of the northern kingdom? So, we now have the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. That's the entire center section of the Old Testament. And they still have a disobedience problem, and they don't live according to God's law. And they have wicked kings who lead them in doing wicked things. And finally says, guys, do you not rem... God says to them, this is the New International Bill version, Yo, bros, you remember you living in my land was predicated on you being obedient to my laws? And so since you didn't do that, the land... Literally, the land needs a break from you, is the way it reads in the Hebrew. The land needs a break from you. So, God uses an external pagan nation, and they come in from the north, and they invade the northern kingdom of Israel, defeat them, and carry them off into captivity. The name of the first pagan nation that carries Israel into captivity is... Assyria. Assyria, that's right. Then, they're carried off into Assyria. Assyria now falls to another big upstart, an up-and-coming pagan kingdom. Which pagan kingdom defeats Assyria? Babylon. Then Babylon comes in and invades the southern kingdom of Judah, defeats them, carries them off into slavery. There's where Jeremiah's ministry is. There's where Daniel's ministry is. In fact, Jeremiah writes a letter to the Babylonian captives saying, guys, buckle in, settle in, you're going to be here for 70 years. Have children, plant gardens, marry your kids, marry your daughters. I will come back for them. I'm not coming back for you. That was God through Jeremiah. Bro, have kids. I'm not coming back for you. I'll come back for them. You, the land needs a break. Aaron, woo! Need a break from you, my bro. So, you're going to stay over there. Then, while they are there, while Daniel's book and ministry is taking place, the kingdom of Babylon falls to a third up-and-coming pagan kingdom. The name of that kingdom is... Persia. Persia. That's your book of Esther. Then, finally, the Persian king allows everybody to go home. See, Babylon would conquer people, collect them, and then move them around because they wanted them to all have a Babylonian identity. Why do you think it was the first thing they did when Daniel showed up? Changed his name. Changed his name so you would have a Babylonian identity, not your people's identity. Persia doesn't do this. Persia's like, yeah, you can go home, whatever. So, they start going home. They go home in three different trips. There's your Ezra. There's your Nehemiah. Finally, they begin to rebuild Jerusalem. Prophets then speak of a coming Messiah. We get all the way to Malachi, the Italian prophet, at the end of the Old Testament. Right? We get to the book of Malachi, and God says, I'm going to send you a Messiah. I'm going to send you a special God. And you will know it's him because I will send a forerunner ahead of him to prepare the way. And now we enter what they call the silent years or the intertestamental years. How many years between the end of the Old Testament and the beginning of the New Testament? 400 years. During those 400 years, it's not like history stopped happening. A lot of history happened. Persia falls. This dude named Alexander, he ends up being pretty great. And so he comes up and he has a kingdom. Jerry's the only guy. I want to tell you that's funny. Sorry, Jerry. Alexander has a kingdom, and his kingdom fractures, and his generals take over. And then finally, up comes this new up-and-coming power, and they start conquering everybody, and their name is the Romans. By the time that Jesus was born, which is at or about the winter of 5 BC coming into 4 BC, Jesus was born somewhere in that range. Rome has conquered the known Mediterranean world, and Jesus is born to a mother named Mary and a father named Joseph. And he's born at 5 to 4 BC under Roman rule. Now, there's not a lot that's known about Jesus after we make it past his first 18 to 24 months. Until age 12, we have a small scene with him at the temple. I have to be about my father's business. And then at age at or about, let's say, 27-ish, he's baptized. The Spirit of God falls on him, and he begins to teach about the coming kingdom of God. And his teaching gets him in a lot of trouble with the religious authorities of his day. You can read all about that in the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and verse. And then he's crucified. Spoiler alert. He comes back to life three days later. It's kind of a big deal in Christianity. So then the resurrection happens on Sunday, April the 9th, AD 30. And he comes back and he says, tell my guys, keep in mind, ladies, let's just be honest. There were only ladies at the tomb on the morning of Easter Sunday. Right? Jim, you, me, and Aaron, all the guys, we were in hiding. We were afraid to think if they killed Jesus, they're coming for us next. The one thing that we were afraid of was the fact that Jesus was born in the tomb. The women were afraid to think if they killed Jesus, they're coming for us next. The women were like, his body deserves to be prepared correctly. So the women are the ones who receive the angelic message. Tell my disciples, meet me in Galilee, where I've done told them I would be. That's how I feel like Jesus would talk. He was a redneck. So Jesus tells them, go meet me in Galilee. And for 40 days, Jesus is on earth in his glorified post-resurrection form, continuing to teach his disciples. We have no record of what he taught during those 40 days. But whatever he taught transformed the disciples from being afraid and in hiding to being preaching in the streets and dying for the reality of Christianity. Those 40 days were pivotal to our faith. So 50 days after the resurrection, there is a Jewish holiday in which everybody comes to the city of Jerusalem. They're remembering an event from Jewish past. And on this particular holiday, Acts chapter 2, the Holy Spirit falls in the upper room and they begin to speak in other tongues and people begin to hear the message of God in their native language. What is the name of that holiday? Pentecost. That's right. Pentecost. The Holy Spirit falls. The church, as you and I know it today, is born 50 days after Sunday, April the 9th, AD 30. Somebody wants to Google that. I don't even know exactly what date Pentecost was. If the AD 30 resurrection date is right, just add 50 days. And it would be in May somewhere, I guess. And now the Church of Jesus Christ is born. But keep in mind that almost exclusively, all of the people who were present in the upper room on the very first day that the church was born are Jewish. Right? Jesus was Jewish. All of the disciples he called during the gospel period are Jewish. Likely, almost all of his followers were Jewish. Although the Gospel of John at the end gives a little kind of like teaser to there were Gentiles who were seeking out Jesus. So it's totally possible that there are Gentile Christians. But I don't think what's debatable is almost all of the earliest Christians, the followers who were there at Pentecost and the 3,000 who got saved on the day of Pentecost, they're almost all exclusively Jewish. This is where we start. The book of James is likely the very first text of the New Testament to be written. There's really only a couple of options. You can go with the James crowd. You can go with the Galatians crowd because Paul gives a timeline. I'm going to say after reading everything, I'm pretty comfortable with the idea that James could be first. Maybe almost might be first. I can't say with absolute impunity, 100% guarantee. But this is where we approach the text. All of the big Bible story that we just reviewed from the Garden of Eden all the way through Moses to Saul, David, Solomon through to Ezra, Nehemiah, Malachi, John the Baptist. I skipped him by the way. Sorry about that. Like I said, it's been a while. I'll get better. And then we get all the way to the Church is Born. And then there's still a few years where people are coming to faith in Christ and we don't have any writings. We have preaching. We know that Paul's preaching ministry was big. We know that Peter had a preaching ministry. But this is the first text to be written of our faith in the New Testament. That's why I think it's super important. Also want to point out that the Book of James was one of the more requested texts when we did our sermon teaching request. People were like, we do James. So we're going to do James. Now having reviewed the when, now you understand where we're at in salvation history. Now I just want to briefly review the who. I'm not going to go over this in great detail every week, but since it's week one, let's talk about who wrote the Book of James. There are four choices. Uno, dos, tres, cuatro. There are four choices for who wrote this book. I'm going to give you all four and then I'm going to tell you which one I think is most correct. So the first choice is James, the brother of the Apostle John, right? Peter and Andrew are fishermen. They had partners named James and John, the sons of Zebedee, also called the sons of thunder, right? The sons of thunder. So it is possible that it is James, the brother of John, who wrote the book. The second possibility is there's a person in the Gospels called James, the son of Alpheus. James, the son of Alpheus. There's not a whole lot known about him because he was not a church leader, nor was he a very important figure. However, I mention him because if any of you have a background in Catholicism or you have relatives or friends who are Catholic, they are going to defend James, the son of Alpheus, for all it's worth. And they're going to defend that ground because they have to also defend the ground that Mary was what they call a perpetual virgin. So Mary was always a virgin for her entire life, which means they have to explain away all of Mary's other sons and daughters, right? They have to say that Joseph had kids from a previous marriage or they adopted the son of Alpheus. So just so you know, James, the son of Alpheus, is the second option and it's the one that Catholics will hold to the most. The third option is James, the father of Judas, not that Judas, right? So when you read the list of the originally called disciples of Jesus, there are two Judases. I feel really bad for Judas, the son of James, because when I say Judas, what does everybody think of? Judas Iscariot, right? We're not talking Judas Iscariot. There's another Judas. There's another dude named Judas. And his father is named James. That's literally the only thing I can tell you about this particular James is he is the father of one of the disciples and that disciples name happened to be Judas. So yeah, there's that one. And then the fourth option is James, the half brother of Jesus. Half brother, why? Because while he is the son of Mary, the same mother of Jesus Christ, James, the brother of Jesus, would be the son of Joseph the carpenter, the way we normally make babies, not having been divinely crafted by the Holy Spirit and placed into the womb of Mary. So of the four choices, the first choice, James, the brother of the Apostle John, we can rule him out completely. He died before the book of James was written. So unless we're going to go full on like poltergeist with a pen, that guy's out. Second, James, the son of Alpheus. There are not a lot of scholars who will hold this view. But if you come from a Catholic background, you're going to defend it a lot more. But I just need to understand that defense is built on defending the perpetual virginity of Mary, not on the validity that the son of Alpheus actually wrote the book. There's an external motivation. So we're going to rule him out. Third, James, the father of Judas. Not likely because we don't know anything about him other than his son's name was Judas. There are no other records that he was an important figure. He was never a leader. Like it just seems unlikely that he wrote the book. The fourth choice is James, the biological half brother of Jesus. This is still the most likely candidate. He's a child of Mary and Joseph the carpenter. He did not place his faith in Jesus until after the resurrection event. And we know for certain he became a prominent leader in the Jerusalem church. Paul references him in Galatians when he says, hey, I went and I talked to the pillars of the faith, Peter and James. That's that James. That's half brother of Jesus James, leader in the Jerusalem church shortly after the resurrection. So I'm going to go with the typical traditional view. Also, I can go all the way back to the first century and I can show you early church fathers absolutely wrote that it was James, the half brother of Jesus who wrote it. So it's not just a logical argument presenting why the other candidates should be less favored. It's also a historical argument. Some of our earliest records would consider James, the half brother of Jesus, to be the correct choice. So now we know the what. Now we know the who. Now let's talk about the when. When exactly is the book that you and I are about to study written? So here we go. The writing of James can be estimated using a few key dates from the first century. First, the book has to be written before AD 62 because it is known that the half brother of Jesus died in AD 62. So, again, unless we're going Ghostbusters level right weird, he had to write the book before he was executed. He was executed and we have external records from the Bible that confirm the half brother of Jesus leader in the Jerusalem church. He was thrown off the top of the temple by Jews thrown off the top of the temple. And then when that didn't kill him, they stoned him while he laid on the ground. So they were really ready to kill him. But he died in AD 62. So the Bible has to be written before 62. It probably also needs to be written before AD 49 because James makes zero mention of any of the Jew Gentile controversy that sparked up about 20 so years after the resurrection as Gentiles started getting saved. And then the number of Gentile Christians starts equaling the number of Jewish Christians. Right. That's a whole book of Romans. Right. They exercise all the Jews from the Roman capital city. The Gentiles take leadership when the Jews come back. They're like, yo, bro, where was my desk? And they're like, we leave the church now. And so there's this Jew Gentile controversy that takes place and it begins around AD 49. And there is not a stitch mention of that controversy at all in the entire book of James. So I'm going to go not just before AD 62. I'm going to go before AD 49. But I'm also going to say after AD 34. And the reason for that and we're going to get into it our introduction. James uses a very specific word in Chapter one, verse one. He uses the word diaspora or diaspora. And if the diaspora audience that's mentioned in one one is also referencing the same event mentioned in Acts eight one, which is the dispersion of Jews throughout the Roman Empire, that happened in about AD 34. So your early end is AD 34. Your back end is probably AD 49. We want to call it what early 40s, maybe 40, 43, which gives us just a little over a decade after the resurrection of Jesus. So I just want you to put all of that in your brain blender. Jesus raises from the dead in AD 30. And the very first New Testament text to be written is not until we'll call it 42 just for kicks, not until AD 42. That's 10 plus years of people hearing the message of Jesus, hearing the gospel preached, seeing the miraculous works of the Holy Spirit, joining the church community, being coming Christians without a stitch of the New Testament. You know that tells me it makes me so encouraged because that means you can tell somebody about Jesus and not have to reference the New Testament. Why? Because Jesus' resurrection is a historical fact. The Holy Spirit in the church, that's a real thing. But I just want us to realize I know we live today in 2025 and we've got, you know, like a million and a half translations of the Bible. And here inside the church, we like to argue about which translation is better. You know, I hate those arguments. Those are so silly. You know which translation is best? The one that gets somebody saved. The one that saves souls, right? There are other languages on planet Earth that don't even have a New Testament yet. And we like to argue about which one's better. Like, bro, read one that the Holy Spirit's in and be transformed by it. So that's sort of where we're at. I just wanted you, I know that was a lot of information super fast. That's why I want you to follow along on your notes. You can always ask me on your Connect card and I will give you all of my notes so you can re-review all of those things. The final thing is the question we have to ask is who did James write his letter to? Right? Anytime you decide to write a text message on your phone, you just write the message and then decide who you're going to send it to? No. And I said it that way for a reason. I need you to understand the way human communication works. You don't write a text message and then go, huh, which one of my friends is this fit best? You do it the other way around. You write a message because you know your audience. James is the same thing. James is writing a letter to an audience. We shouldn't decide after the fact who the audience is when James would have known who he was writing to before he wrote the text. So who is James writing to? Thankfully, like most New Testament letters, he gives us the exact description. Here's my overview of it. James is written to the earliest Christian groups, many of whom were Jewish Christians scattered throughout the Roman Empire as these groups began to welcome in Gentiles. There's not the head-to-head controversy yet. That's AD 49 and afterward. So all of that is my introduction. If you have the catalyst app on your phone, I'm going to ask you to go ahead and open up your notes. The title of my message this morning is called The Method of Maturity. And we're going to look at James chapter one, verse one to verse 12. So we're only going to look at 12 verses today. But here's the method of maturity. And, you know, I apologize. I completely forgot to give the key thought. So let's do that. So here's the key thought for the entire book of James. From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the real world. That is my contemporary take. If I could give you one sentence to overview, what is the book of James about? That's it. He talks about real life, real faith, blue jeans and ball caps, walking down the sidewalk, getting a coffee, going to work. This is not Paul writing about the theologically elevated stuff, right? This is James in your face on a block talking about real faith. So what I would like to do is first, I'd like to read just these 12 verses. Let's read the whole piece we're going to study and then we'll get into it. Here we go. James chapter one, verse one. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the 12 tribes scattered among the nations, greetings. Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith produces perseverance. Let perseverance finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, lacking or not lacking anything. If any of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to you. Verse six. Blessed is the one who perseveres under trial, because having stood the test, that person will receive the crown of glory. Blessed is the one who perseveres under trial, because having stood the test, that person will receive the crown of glory. Let's rewind back, started verse one, and let's just start breaking this up a little bit. So here's the first verse. James chapter one, verse one. James chapter one, verse one. James chapter one, verse one. James chapter one, verse one. And let's just start breaking this up a little bit. So here's the first fill in the blank. Ready? The audience of James, let me make sure I got... The audience of James is Jewish believers living in pagan lands. The audience of James is Jewish believers living in pagan lands. So take a look at verse one. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's identifying who he is. I want to dial in on what he's saying about himself. Now that we've talked about this is James, the half-brother of Jesus, who didn't get saved until after the resurrection. Does anybody think that would have been a really cool moment to see? Like all of a sudden, his brother's resurrected, he's God, and now he realizes that his big brother was God the whole time? Like that had to be hilarious. James, a servant of God. The word servant specifically means slave or bond servant. The key idea behind this term is the willing submission to the one who has purchased me. A bond servant is someone who serves because a bond has been made. Typically when we hear the word slave in our language, we automatically think of human chattel slavery like owning someone outright. 80% of the Roman Empire were slaves, but they all weren't owned like chattel slavery. There was times where if I couldn't pay my bills and Jerry is a rich landowner, I would come to Jerry and I would say, Jerry, I need to borrow ABC amount of shekels and I will come and work for you for X, Y, Z amount of time. And what I am doing is I'm basically renting myself to his company, whatever he does, whether Jerry keeps sheep or whether Jerry makes textiles, whatever he does. I'm giving myself to him and he's paying me for that. In our society today, we call that work, employment, right? Job, right? In their society today, they called it bond servant. So he's meaning my willing submission to the one who has purchased me or my commitment to the one who owns me or has bought me. So the first thing is he notices that transition. I belong to God. And then he also says of the Lord Jesus Christ. The word Lord there literally means the master who holds authority over me. So notice the two ways he identifies himself. His personal identity is someone who has been purchased by Christ, who willingly submits to Christ because Christ has authority over me. That's just the first half of that sentence. And then he addresses who he's writing to, to the twelve tribes scattered among the nations. And again, the actual word he uses here is diaspora or diaspora. And what it means is the Jewish people always saw themselves as a people, right? They're always a people group, but they're not always a people group who's in their own land. They're dispersed, living amongst pagan peoples. And they never stopped seeing their own identity. In fact, they would travel back to Jerusalem and have their festivals just like Passover, just like Pentecost. So when James is writing to a diaspora audience, he is writing to a people who are striving to live a certain faith in the midst of a crisis. In the midst of a culture that does not support it. Now does it sound familiar? Right? While I cannot tell you that James is writing to Christians living in America. He's not. He's writing to Jews living in Rome. But there's a lot of similarities to be had when you look at the concept of what a diaspora audience is. It's an audience whose primary connection to one another is not in this world, but it's in their faith. And their faith causes them to need to live differently inside of a world system. So whilst I cannot tell you that we are necessarily the diaspora Jews of the first century, I can tell you that I believe the Christian church is a group of people whose primary relationship is their submission to God and their faith and they live in all kinds of different pagan lands. So the application, and I normally don't get into application in verse one, but I've got to do this because this is going to set the stage for everything that comes after it. James is writing to people who are related by their faith, living in a country and under a totalitarian rule that is opposed to godly living. That sounds an awful lot like the world outside of these walls. Sounds an awful lot like the world you and I have to live in. It's also the same world that our Chinese Christian brothers and sisters have to live in. Our Iranian brothers and sisters have to live in. Our Yemenese brothers and sisters have to live in. So the idea of being a diaspora Christian is not a new concept, nor is it a Western American concept. We could trace it all the way back to the very first New Testament book to be written, the New International Bill version. So I did while I was preparing for my sermon this Sunday, I asked chat GPT, do me a favor and give me the introduction of James in Gen Alpha slang. And then I read it to my family at the dining room table and I was wholeheartedly voted no, as I may not use that in this section of my sermon. So I'm not going to give you James one in Gen Alpha slang, but I will tell you if you want a really entertaining lunch conversation, go Google that on your own time and look it up because it was funny. But James is saying, if you would allow me to paraphrase, I'm James. Now keep in mind, they always identify themselves first in New Testament letters. We write our citation at the bottom. He writes himself first. James, I belong to God. I'm submitted to God. And I want to write to all of you faithful people who are holding it down, living under the Romans. That's James one one. That's what he's saying. And what I want you to hear in that, remember the Bible's not written to you. It's written. Anybody know the end of that sentence? I've said it a bunch. The Bible's not written to you. It's written for you. Thank you, Pete. The Bible's not written to you. It's written for you. The Bible is written to diaspora Jews living in Rome. It's written for diaspora Christians living in the world that belongs to Satan, not Jesus. So that's verse one. We can learn from his teachings even though we're not in the exact setting. So here you go. Here's your next blank. Trials should produce maturity. Trials should produce maturity or maturity, if you would prefer. Trials should produce maturity. Also, you'll notice under each section where it says notes and it's just a blue line, that is an open space. You can literally type as much as you want and the form will just keep opening up. So as I'm making points on this point, if there's anything I say that you think is valuable, you can just, and when you email it to yourself, everything that you fill in will come with it. So the first point that James makes after identifying himself is trials should produce maturity. Take a look at verse two. Consider it pure joy. I know this is going to be a lot of stopping and starting and I only got like five minutes, four, eleven, so we'll get this done. Consider it pure joy. Literally, the term there means regard or reckoness with all joy or reason for gladness or reason for rejoicing. I want you to consider every bit of rejoicing. And then my brothers and sisters, it's interesting in English that's four words, in Greek it's one word. It's Adelphos and it's the word that identifies all believers. So even though we are not first century diaspora Jews, James is writing because we are under the heading of all believers. So all believers, all y'all, I spent enough time in the south, I feel like I could say that effectively. All y'all, I want you to consider it all a reason for gladness when you face trials of many kinds. The word trial there literally means a temptation or test. It refers to something that happens outside of yourself or something external that like stresses you out. So I just want to say I love Jesus. I dislike his sense of humor. Because it took me all week to study and write this morning's sermon. And during this week at my house, my basement flooded and then they tried to fix it and they wrecked the electric in my basement. So now I have no electric in my basement. The internet went out. My mother-in-law's visiting and my house is torn shreds. Consider it joy when you experience various trials. I literally said to the Lord this morning, God, I don't feel like I required a life lesson before I could prepare the sermon. Clearly you felt that I did and you're wiser than me. But when he says experience trial, he is talking about something external to you. So let's define the difference here. Temptation is internal. Trial is external. My basement is a trial. It tempts me to lose my temper. But it's a trial. Something outside. Now his first century audience, they're being persecuted, jailed and killed by the Romans. That's a literal external trial. And also he puts in there many kinds. So all believers, I want you to find it a legitimate reason for rejoicing when things outside of you make it difficult. Verse three, because, okay, James, thanks. Now tell me why. And here's verse three, because the testing of your faith produces perseverance. There's a really cool thing that happens here in the Greek that we miss in English. The word testing literally means to be proved genuine. I want you to think about diamonds, right? If you were to take a diamond, you find a diamond ring somewhere and you take it to a jeweler, you know, and they get out their super cool like a monocular thing and they turn the light on. And what are they doing? They're examining it. They are testing it to see if it is in fact genuine or if it is in fact a fake. The same thing with counterfeit currency, right? The Secret Service counterfeit department, they spend enough time with real bills that counterfeiters, they try to make it look right, but it's in the testing that it's proved to be genuine. That's what that word testing means. So I want you to find joy in various trials because I want you to understand that it is your faith being tested and proved genuine that produces perseverance, literally means endurance. In fact, some Bible translations put the word endurance there instead of perseverance. I like to use the term, hold on, right? Literally, I want you to find joy in trial because I want you to understand that it's in trial that your faith is proved genuine and it's through that process of the genuine proving of your faith that you gain that will, some fill us. Hold on for one more day. Put that right there in verse three, Jen. But he's not done. Now we need verse four. We need to let that perseverance, that endurance, same word from verse three. We need to let that perseverance finish its work. That literally means let it mature. It needs to finish its work. It needs to finish growing until it's done. Let the work, which work? The work of producing endurance. Let it work until it's matured, it's perfected so that you may be mature, complete, like nothing. Here's what's cool. In the Greek in verse four, the word in the NIV translated finish is the same exact Greek word as translated mature and complete in the NIV. So literally the word means let perseverance mature its work so you may be mature lacking nothing. So the function of an external trial in my life is not to see how I can hold my jank together while talking to a contractor. That's the functional reality of my life. That's not its purpose. That's not its function. That's not its function. What it's doing is it is perfecting. I have to let the process of maturity of my faith, the genuineness being proved, I have to let that process finish its work because you know what happens? If you experience a trial and you ditch out before it's over, you have to do it again. Pastor Rick, my mentor, he used to say all the time, don't go around the mountain twice. If God is putting a trial in your life, lean in because I don't know about you, but I don't need trials twice. I've got enough, right? There is enough trial in my life to keep me going. I don't need to do it twice. That's what he's saying here. Don't give up. Don't stop. Let the trial finish its work. Let the trial become fully mature because in that maturity of the trial, you as the believer will become mature and then you will be, and finally it says complete, not lacking anything or lacking nothing. It literally means you will no longer be falling short. You won't be short. You'll have enough. So that's the first point. Second one, wisdom is granted to those who trust and don't doubt. Wisdom is granted to those who trust and don't doubt. That gets us to verse five. So just hold the whole trial perseverance maturity thing. That's a subpoint. Now let's make the second subpoint here. Wisdom is granted to those who trust and don't doubt. If any of you lacks wisdom, stop. The word wisdom in Greek means so much more than it means to us today. Their word wisdom, in fact literally the word wisdom in Greek is Sophia. Your name is the actual Greek word for wisdom. Your parents will use that the next time you make a mistake. Literally the word Sophia, in fact it even sounds like a name, right, even though we have a Sophia. The word Sophia, the word wisdom is not just some sort of intellectual understanding. The word Sophia in the Greek doesn't just mean to know something. It means to have the wisdom, the prudence, and the discretion, the ability to understand and to act. And wisdom in a Greek culture almost took on a life of its own. It was almost personified, the figure of wisdom. In fact, if you want proof of that, go look at Solomon's writings in the book of Proverbs. He refers to wisdom as a woman. Now that's long before the Greeks, but you see a personification. And it's not just knowing. Wisdom in this context is knowing and doing. It's the ability to understand and act wisely. See, in our culture today, you might start reading trial, perseverance, I get that, and then you get down to if any of you lacks wisdom, and it feels like a disconnect, right? In James's day, there was no disconnect here. What he's referring to is if you lack the wisdom to hold on during the trial, then you need to ask God for more. If you lack the ability to understand and act in the midst of the trial that's developing your perseverance, that's developing your maturity, if you lack that understanding, the prudence and discretion to act, then you need to ask God who gives generously. Generous means exactly what it means in our language. Gives without holding back. And he will give it to all without finding fault. The to all literally means he will give it to you total, complete, nobody gets left out. There's no favorites, even though my wife says she's God's favorite, I got to say a lot of times I agree with her. In this particular verse, God will give all the wisdom, discretion, and understanding to know and to act to give to all who ask. Without finding fault is interesting. It literally means without reproach, without insult, or without reprimand. So when you're in a trial and you are experiencing difficulty, James says I want you to understand what this difficulty is going to do for you. And if you lack the understanding and the ability to act, then I want you to ask God. And God will not judge you. He won't reprimand you. He won't give you reproach for asking saying, God, I just don't get it. I realize I'm probably the only person on planet Earth who's ever been in the middle of a tough stuff. Anyway, God, I do not get why this is happening right now. I understand trials. I understand perseverance. But God, really? That's how these are connected. He's saying if any of you lacks the wisdom and discernment. Verse six, but when you ask, you must believe and not doubt. So let me take that first part and then I'll do the analogy. So when you ask, you must believe. The word believe here is the number one word for faith in the New Testament. It's P-STIs. P-I-S-T-I-S. P-STIs. And it means to have a certainty to completely trust. So when you ask, you must insert completely trust and not doubt. Now, doubt's a tough word in our culture because doubt to us is often described as a lack of faith. Whereas doubt in the first century, the way he's using it, isn't really a lack of faith. It's assuming you have the right to pass judgment on something. So what he's saying is when you ask God, you've got to ask with total trust and not judge for yourself whether you deserve the wisdom. Now, that hits different. When I start swapping that out and trying to get to the context, now it doesn't feel like trust is doubt is not, I mean, I guess he can. No, what you're doing there by saying, I guess he can, you're passing judgment that he can't. That's what James is keying in on. He's saying when you ask for that wisdom to understand that trial, you've got to totally trust God and stop doing it yourself. Stop putting yourself in the place of judgment because, and now he's going to explain it, the one who doubts or gives themselves the right to judge is like a wave of the sea blown and tossed by the wind. Now, if we are right on the authorship and we are right that it is Jesus's half brother James, that means he grew up in the Nazareth Galilee area. He would have grown up around boats, around fishermen. He probably could have known Peter, James, John, Andrew, you know, when they were youngins because, again, they're from redneck country, so I can call them youngins. He would have been familiar with what happens when you're on a boat on the water. And what happens? That external wind, you're just tossed. The wind produces the waves and you've got no anchor. You've got nothing stable holding you and you're just going to be tossed back and forth by whatever wave comes your way. That's what happens when you don't trust God fully, but try to pass judgment yourself. Then all you're doing is you're just judging every little thing that comes along. And all of a sudden, all that wind produces all of these waves and it just rocks the boat to the point that you're seasick. Because you're deciding you have the right to decide what God should do instead of fully and completely trusting God. I also want to say this. Not understanding something is not the same as not trusting something. There are plenty of times, I will admit to you, I do not understand why God does what he does. That does not mean I do not trust him. It just means that me understanding him is not required for me to trust him. If I had to understand everything that God did, I'd have to be God. So many times in life, I have to go, God, I do not get this. But obedience over comfort. I'm going to go here. I'm going to do this thing. It makes zero sense to me, right? But what am I saying when I say it makes zero sense? I'm judging. I'm deciding that it's okay for me to pass judgment on how God does what he does. Ray, when did we get the rank upgrade? I must have missed that when they handed it out. When did we get the right to decide and to judge God's actions? So we have to trust completely and not pass judgment for ourselves. And that protects us from being tossed. And I will say, don't let the enemy lie to you. You can trust and not understand. You can trust and not understand. That's got to be for somebody. Number seven. That person, the person who's on the wave tossed around because they're judging and not trusting completely, that person should not expect to receive anything from the Lord. That does not mean any prayer whatsoever. In context, he's talking about verse five. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask. He is not saying that we should take that verse out of context and talk about your entire prayer life. Keep it here. Right? Keep it tight. He is saying when you're in the midst of trial and you're under stress, you might cognitively understand that that trial is producing perseverance. If you let perseverance keep going, it's going to produce the endurance. You'll be complete and lacking nothing, but you lack the wisdom and you don't understand why God's doing what he's doing. But you've got to trust. You've got to have complete faith because if not, then he's not going to answer that. You're not going to see. If you don't trust that God is working, you're not going to see how he's working. Does that make sense? Like if you just believe bad stuff happens and God's not working in it, then you're not going to see how he's working in it. Think of Joseph. I love that story all the time. Let's put that on next year's preaching calendars. Do the entire story. Joseph trusted God when he was sold. Joseph trusted God in Potiphar's house. Joseph trusted God in the prison. Joseph did not know. He could not have known that he would have ended up in the palace. He had one dream that said God's going to use me and eventually he's going to use me in a place of authority. That's the stars and the bowing and the sheaves and all that kind of stuff. But he didn't know how it was going to work. He just trusted that God would do something. You can trust that without understanding how. Then verse 8, such a person, meaning the person who's judging for themselves and not trusting, they're not getting the wisdom, that person is double-minded and unstable in all they do. I'm just going to say this. If you are interested in Bible study, hit me up on your Kinect card. I'd love to show you the Logos Bible software. It did something this week that I don't often do, but that I found. Mel, here, this is an electrician. Sorry. That's literally me trusting God and not understanding. The electrician's going, hey man, I'm sorry I didn't text you. I'm like, dude, I told you I was at church. All right. The Logos Bible study software. You can click a button and right underneath all the English words, it shows you all the Greek words and it shows you how they work. This word double-minded, I really liked. In Greek, it's literally di-psychos. Di-psychos, meaning two psychos or two minds. That's how we got double-minded in English. It literally means di-psychos or di-psychos, two minds. Their faith is, the word unstable is uncontrolled, restless, unstable, unreliable. Why? Because part of you is trying to trust God while the rest of you is still judging him for it. That's why it's double. That's why it's unstable. You're not solidly planted in trusting. Because you're like, I'm trusting, I'm trusting, but I don't like it. I'm trusting, I'm trusting, but I don't get it. You see that? That's why it's unstable. You have two minds. One mind that desperately wants to trust God fully, but you leave this part of you on the backside that's going, I'm going to judge for myself whether I should trust, I'm going to judge for myself whether I deserve it. And then we get to point C. All believers should root their hope in the next life. All believers should root their hope in the next life. Pick it up at verse 9. Believers in humble circumstances. Stop. I know there's a lot of fractional here. Believers in humble circumstances. Who is he referring to here? The term literally means, again, believers is a delphos. That means all Christians, all brothers and sisters. Older translations might have used the word brethren there to symbolize our familial relationship as the body of Christ. So all believers in humble circumstances literally means downcast, downtrodden, lacking in hope, low in status. That's the real semantic range of what he's saying here. All believers who are low in status. How are you low in status in a Roman society? All of you believers who ain't rich, New International Bill version. Anybody who ain't rich. They ought to take pride in their high position. Well, what position is he referring to? And how on God's green earth does the amount of money I have relate to me asking for wisdom in the middle of trial? Because keep in mind, when James wrote his letter, he wasn't stopping here to put verse 9. He just wrote a letter. We didn't put the numbers in until hundreds of years afterward. So all of this has to go together. So believers, all the believers are experiencing trial. They're asking for wisdom. Believers who have a low status in the Roman Empire. If you had a low status, you had more trial. You know why? Because you couldn't bribe people for stuff to go your way. If I was super rich and I could bribe the cop and I could bribe the judge, life would be really easy. I'd do what I want and just pay for it. Right? That's Roman society. If you had enough money, you could pay someone to claim they did the crime you did. Give the money to their family. They would get executed. You'd move right on with your day. So believers who are of low status or of low income in Roman society, the non wealthy. They should take pride in their high position. James is here now looking eschatologically into the future kingdom of God. How does a non wealthy Jewish first century Roman believer who scattered throughout the Roman Empire have a high position? Because of their unity, they are all waiting for the next life. They're all waiting for the kingdom. So now he's saying, I want the key to the trials and the wisdom is the perspective. I want you to look at your life through the lens of eternity. Right? If you are struggling and you are of low status, if you are downcast or lacking in hope, I want you to find your high position. You are a member of the kingdom of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And that kingdom is above this world. But we need to relate it to verse 10. But the rich should take pride in their low status or their humbling, their humiliation since they will pass away like a wildflower. So James here is saying that if you are of low income level in Roman society, you can look to the next life with hope because you will have a high position. If you are wealthy and very rich in Roman society, you can look forward to the next life and you will have a lower position. Why is your position lower? Because you will be equal to the person who's coming up. Your wealth status in this life has no effect on your next life. I don't mean for that to be offensive. I just mean for it to be true. All of our worlds, our societies focus on money. What's the old phrase? You can't take it with you. Can't take it with you. So those who are wealthy in this life, you will be less wealthy in the next life because that wealth is not coming with you. Those who are not wealthy in this life, you have a high position in the next life because you don't have to take your poorness with you. He is equalizing the wealthy and the non-wealthy and having them both point toward the next life. Why? Because verse 11, for sun rises with scorching heat and withers the plant, the blossom falls and fades. The beauty is destroyed in the same way the rich will fade away even while they go about their business. The flower is like the entire economic drive. The petals are the money. When the sun shows up and scorches it and the flower dies, the petals don't matter. When this life is over, the amount of money we died with doesn't matter. I would also say when this life is over, the number of things on your to-do list won't matter. You will die with stuff undone in your to-do list. You will die with stuff undone in your checking account or on your credit card statement or your mortgage statement, whatever it is. None of that stuff will transition to the next life. And then in verse 12, here's the bracket. We're going to bring it all together. Verse 12. Blessed is the one who perseveres under trial because having stood the test, that person will receive the crown of life that the Lord has promised to those who love him. Now, there is a lot that has been made over James's crown of life reference here. So I want to break this down, not leave you like totally flabbergasted, but it's not nearly as spiritual as you think it is. So number one, let's take the word crown. What crown is he talking about? He is not talking about some sort of golden jewel laden, heavily crowned that has been made by the angelic blacksmiths of heaven. He is talking about a wreath of olive branches that are woven together and placed on the head of athletic victors. That is the cultural context of first century Rome. Why? Where do we see that in our society today? The Olympics, right? The Olympics. In fact, when they brought the Olympics back to Greece, was it like 20 something years ago? Make me feel really old. When they brought the Olympics back to Greece, they actually used woven olive wreath crowns. That's the word crown he's talking about. He's not talking about some sort of heavenly minted gold jeweled crown that you're going to get when you get to heaven. Why? Because that mentality thinks that worldly wealth matters in the next life. He is talking about the crown that is given to victors who run the race and finish well. He's using an athletic analogy of his day to talk. What's the whole race he's talking about? The race of life that endures trials. The race of life that asks for wisdom. The entire race of life that you need to have your this life in the lens of your next life. Why? What is the crown? The crown is an athletic victor's crown. The crown of life. He's literally talking about what you and I would refer to as our next life or the afterlife or eternal life. All those are terms you and I would use today to speak about what our life will be like when this earthly life is over. So I just substitute that in. The best is the believer who perseveres under trial. Because having stood the testing, having stood the process of making your faith proved genuine, having stood that process, that person will receive the reward of eternal life that the Lord has promised to those who love him. He is saying if you take the trials of this life as difficult as they are, keep in mind, they were being hunted, they were being slaughtered, they were being jailed. They weren't like third in line at Starbucks. Right? We're talking about significant external trial. James in 12 is not trying to make a statement about who's saved and not saved. He said that in verse 1. I'm writing to believers. His entire audience is saved. What he's doing is he's writing to believers. He's saying if you want to make this work, if you want to understand the method of maturity, you need to understand what trials do. You need to understand when you don't get it, you can ask God. And you need to understand you need to live this life through the lens of eternity. And those two things, those latter two things, lens of eternity and asking God when you don't have the wisdom to understand and act in the midst of trial, those are the keys to becoming mature in your faith. That's what James is saying. So let me bring you in here. Actually, I'm going to say one more thing, Dino, before we bring up the takeaway. Those of you who are using the notes, if you scroll down to the bottom, I added something else for you this week. Discussion questions. So as I've been reading and as I've been observing how our church is working and how we're growing in the digital space, I've realized that whilst we are more digitally connected, we are less relationally connected. And I don't just mean as a church, I mean as a society. There is such a thing called digital loneliness, where you sit at home and you're scrolling and you're watching your Instagram or your TikiTalks or your Facebooks, and it makes me feel really old to say it that way, right? TikiTalks and Instagrams. And you're connected electronically, but we are more distant relationally because of it. The body of Christ is a community. Iron doesn't sharpen iron by looking at each other on Instagram. Iron doesn't sharpen iron by checking out and making Facebook comments on each other's posts. Iron sharpens iron by direct relationship and discussion. So I wanted to add something new, other than the digital notes, which you get to keep. I want to try something new for this entire James series. I'm going to give you three discussion questions at the end of every sermon. I want you to take these three questions and have discussion with at least one or two other believers at some point during the week. If you're in our app and you're using our Catalyst messaging group, I'm going to post these questions in our messaging group on, I think I was going to do Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. So we can have those discussions there. Go to lunch and have these discussions there. If you're part of our online campus, guess what? Watching is not good enough. If all you're going to do is watch the sermon, tune in to somebody else, man. You're not being a part of the body of Christ. In fact, you are lying to yourself that watching church is doing church. Watching church is entertainment. Engaging in church is discipleship. And for me, it's not good enough for you to just sit there in front of a screen and not engage. So I got to do something different. I got to give you the right tools for you to be able to take the digital platform we're building for you and turn it into something that builds relationship. If all you do is listen to me teach and go, wow, that was a great teaching, what else we got? You're turning me into entertainment. And I just got to tell you, I don't do all of this work so you can feel entertained. Insert gladiator quote right here. Are you not entertained? I do all of this work because I want to see all of us not just grow closer to Jesus, but grow closer to each other. So starting today and for the rest of this series, my challenge to you is I want you to take these discussion questions and I want you to carry them out into your real life where your real world and your real trials and your real prayers and your real money and all of that takes place. And I want you to build Christian community outside either the brick and mortar walls or the digital screen that you're watching right now. That's my challenge to you. We will do it in the app in our communication group, but it's so much. And even there, that's interaction, but it doesn't really build relationship. Get on a FaceTime call with somebody. Get two or three people go out to coffee. You know, if you're not going to build relationships, you're not going to sharpen each other. It's like taking two knives and just them sending pics back and forth. It's not going to really do anything. So that's the discussion question. That's the discussion question. Again, if you just click the email button, it'll send you all the notes, all the discussion. But let's get into our takeaway. Do you know? Let's hit that. So here's the takeaway. Usher's worship team, if everybody could go ahead and get set, let's bring this in for landing. Maturing in the Christian faith happens when we respond to testing with wisdom and hope. That's how I'm going to wind out these first 12 verses for you. Maturing in the Christian faith happens when we respond with testing and hope.