Good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary teacher here. For all of you who are joining us online as part of our live stream online campus family, thank you for being a part. I got a chance to look in on the live chat that happens on the live stream. And we have several people, although I have to say one of our deacons is on vacation this morning. And he wins the award for traveling the farthest to go to church, because Dino and Tara are watching from the Netherlands this morning. So Dino, you win the award. We love you. Be safe. Enjoy your vacation. And we will see you when you get home. As you saw in the intro video, we are going to continue our study of the book of James. So I'm going to ask you to turn your Bibles to the book of James. We're going to be in chapter two this morning. While you're turning there or tapping, let me give you the key thought that is sort of my overview of what the whole book of James is about. From trials and temptation to self-control and suffering, the book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the real world. The book of James addresses faith as it's lived out day to day. This is where like the rubber meets the road. Anybody ever known that one? Or a friend of mine taught me a new word this week, the flex plate, which apparently is the part of the engine where the energy from the engine touches the transmission. It's where everything gets real. It's where all of a sudden it's not just hypothetical anymore. We actually have to walk it out. We have to live it out. So let's just put ourselves in the right mindset. We're going to do an abbreviated big Bible story this morning. So in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Then he planted a garden at Eden. Then into Eden, he placed two human beings, Adam and Eve. And then as he, excuse me, sin enters the garden. They are ejected from the garden and sin begins to run rampant. God realizes that you can just take it off. I can do it without slides. I promise. I'm good. All right. So sin enters. They're ejected from the garden. They begin to expound upon humanity. Sin grows until there's only one righteous man left. God calls to that righteous man and says, I need you to build an ark. You will be salvation. There's a flood coming. That man's name is Noah. Noah and his family bore the flood. It rains for 40 days and 40 nights. Rain covers the surface of the earth for a little more than a year. And we're going to get into the chronology and the timing of that. So a little plug for our VBS this year. We'll be spending five nights deep diving the Genesis flood. And VBS here at Catalyst is not just for kids. It's for kids, teens, all the way up through adults. So if you are interested, please see the Catalyst app. Or if you are watching online and you don't have our app yet, you can go to our website and go to events. You can see about the flood there. So then the flood recedes. They walk off the ark. And then all of a sudden, God, as humanity begins to spread out, God chooses a man living in Mesopotamia and he makes a covenant. And he says, you're going to be my people and I'm going to be your God. I'm going to bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you. And I'm going to give you the land of Canaan as a forever inheritance for all of your descendants. That man's name was changed to Abraham. Right. Abraham becomes the first patriarch of the Jewish people. Abraham then has two sons and God repeats the covenant to his younger son named... Abraham's son is Isaac. And then Isaac has two sons and he repeats the covenant again to the younger of Isaac's two sons. And the third covenant inheritor's name is Jacob. So Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, that is the three patriarchs of the Old Testament of the Jewish faith. Jacob then has 12 sons who become the 12 tribes of Israel. His older brothers sell the younger brother into slavery. He goes into Egypt. He's in Egypt for probably like 13-ish years and he starts as a slave and he raises all the way up to the palace where he becomes second in charge only to Pharaoh. Ultimately, God puts him in that position to save his family from a famine that takes place in the land of Canaan. That young man's name is Joseph. That young man's name is Joseph. And God sends them a young man born in Egypt, raised in the palace, 40 years of shepherding experience in Midian. He appears to him from a burning bush and says, go tell Pharaoh, let my people go. That young man's name is Moses. Moses goes into Egypt. He presents to Pharaoh. Pharaoh and he kind of have a little bit of a battle there. The 10 plagues of Egypt happen. Ultimately, he allows God's people to leave. They part on a body of water that parts like this and they walk across dry ground. What is the body of water that they walked across to escape Egypt? The Red Sea. They walk across the Red Sea. They get to the foot of a very special mountain. Moses goes up on the mountain. He receives the law from God. And while he's up on the top of the mountain, they're down here doing some tomfoolery foolishness. I mean, God, they receive the law. The name of the mountain on which Moses received the law is Mount Sinai. That's where we get the called the Sinai covenant, the law. That is where Israel becomes a nation. They went into Egypt as a family. They came out of Egypt as a nation. The nation that God had promised all the way back to Abraham. God in fact promised that they would be enslaved and he would rescue them. Then he wants to take them directly to the promised land. They get to the promised land. They send in some spies. They ultimately lose faith in God and they have to wander. How many years of wilderness of wilderness, will during? There was a lot of W's in that sentence. How many years? 40 years, they wander in the wilderness or wilderness wandering. They wander for 40 years. Basically, the entire generation, the experience, the 10 plagues of Egypt does not get to move into the land of Canaan. During those 40 years, God raises up another young man to lead his people. He replaces Moses and this young man leads them across the Jordan River. They stood up just like the Red Sea did and they move into the land of Canaan. They begin the conquest period. That young man's name is Joshua. Joshua leads them into the land but they do not move out all of the other inhabitants. They begin to enter Mary. They begin to get into what's called syncretism where they're adding other people's beliefs to their faith and that leads to the judges period where everyone did what is right in their own eyes. Everyone does what is right in their own eyes and they ultimately continue to reject God's laws. They continue to reject God until the ultimate rejection when they go to God and they ask God for a certain thing for their country and for their kingdom like all the other countries have. What is it that they asked of God that brought their rejection of him to its highest level? A king. They asked for a human king. Who was supposed to be the king of Israel? God. Supposed to be him ruling his people in the land that he had given him but they reject him. They asked for a human king. The first king of the united monarchy of Israel is Saul followed by David followed by Solomon followed by Civil War. That's right. Followed by Civil War and in this moment the kingdom of God fractures. Now we're in the middle of the Old Testament. They fracture into two nations. The northern kingdom was named Israel and had how many tribes in it? Ten. The southern kingdom is named Judah and had how many tribes? Two. So the northern kingdom of Israel, southern kingdom of Judah and then remain as two nations for the whole middle section of the Old Testament and they still reject God and they still have an obedience problem and they can't follow God's laws. So now God has to put them in a time out and he uses an external pagan nation who comes in and invades the northern kingdom of Israel and carries them off into captivity. The name of that first pagan nation is Assyria. Assyria comes in and carries the northern kingdom Israel away into captivity. While they're in captivity another upstart nation comes up and actually defeats Assyria and becomes the world power. That nation is Babylon. Babylon comes down and invades Judah conquering them and carrying them off into captivity and then while they are in captivity Babylon falls to another upstart pagan nation and that third one is Persia and under Persian rule they're allowed to go home and so here's your Ezra, your Nehemiah. The book of Esther takes place during Persian rule and so they begin to come back to the land, they begin to rebuild, they begin to restart Jewish society. They're free for like maybe 120 years and then in comes Alexander the Great and he conquers then he dies and then his empire is fractured and then ultimately in come the Romans and now we're into the New Testament time. So how much time between the Old Testament and the New Testament? 400 years. During that time there's your Alexander, there's your Seleucid Empire, there's your Maccabees if anybody's ever heard that word. The Maccabean revolt happens in the intertestamental period and then up come the Romans. The Romans take over everything and the New Testament begins under Roman occupation. God has been silent for 400 years and he breaks his silence by sending an angel into the temple at Jerusalem to speak to a dude who happens to be chosen by lot to burn incense in the temple and so the very first person to hear supernatural revelation after 400 years of silence, his name is Zechariah. Zechariah is serving in the temple and angel appears to him and says, Zech, you're, that's what I think, angel called him by a nickname because it's my story. So Zech, you're going to have a son and he is going to be great in the eyes of the Lord and he is going to be the forerunner of the Messiah. The very special name of Zechariah's son is John the Baptist. John the Baptist is the forerunner of the Messiah. That goes all the way back to Malachi when God said, you'll know who I send you because they'll have a forerunner ahead of them. Then an angel appears to a young woman pledged to be married to a man named Joseph and says, you're going to have a very special son and he will be Emmanuel. He will be God with us. Your son will be born as God incarnate and that young woman's name who is the mother of the son of God, her name is Mary. That's a good one and her son, kind of a big deal, right? So who, what is the name of Mary's son? Jesus. That's right, super big character in the New Testament. Jesus then grows up as a first century Jew. He's born in Bethlehem. They travel over to Egypt for a little bit. Then they come back into Galilee. He raises in Nazareth which is why he's called Jesus of Nazareth. Then at or about the age of, I will call it 30-ish, he is baptized by his cousin or his close relative John the Baptist. He's filled with the Holy Spirit. He begins to do amazing miracles, works. He begins teaching about the coming kingdom of God. He draws apostles and disciples. Now we're into the gospel period and then ultimately he dies. Spoiler alert, not the end of the book, just so we're clear. Jesus is executed by the Romans after being asked by the Jewish authorities. Three days later he rises, he resurrects and the Christian church is born. Fifty days after the resurrection there's a Jewish holiday in which the Holy Spirit falls and we consider that the birthday or the birth of the New Testament church as you and I know it today. What is the name of the Hebrew holiday on which the Christian church was born? Pentecost. The Holy Spirit falls, believers are filled with God's Spirit and the church is born. So Pentecost happened whatever 50 days after April 9th, AD 30 is. I should probably do that math at some point and remember it. But Pentecost, the church is born in AD 30. The book you and I are going to study is one of the prime contenders for the first New Testament text to ever be written. We're talking AD 45 to like maybe 48, 45 to 48. So if the church is born in AD 30 and James is writing his book and we'll call it AD 45 just because I like easy math, that's 15 years. For 15 years people have been hearing the message of the gospel but there was no New Testament yet. There was no text written because our faith is founded on the resurrection of Jesus and the teachings that he left that have now been recorded for us in the New Testament. Just as a brief overview, we're about to jump into the very first book written in the New Testament church. It's written by James the half brother of Jesus. If you would like a deeper dive on the other possible options for the author of James, please just go to our website or the catalyst app. I did a big deep dive on week one. I'm not going to go back to it but it's there. I believe that James the half brother of Jesus is the most likely candidate the book is written. I'm going to go AD 45 to 48 and who is James writing to. Now those of you have the catalyst app. A few weeks ago we launched fill in the blank sermon notes. So I'd like to ask you to grab the catalyst app and just tap on that blue graphic that says sermon notes and it will load fill in the blank sermon notes. Even for those of you joining us online, if let's say you're watching on the tv app or you're watching on a computer, you could grab the sermon notes, still fill them out on your phone and then you'll be able to email yourself all of your notes plus the notes that I put in there. So the first fill in on your notes is talking about the audience of the book of James. The audience of James is faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. Faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. I want to come back to that every single message in this series because I need you to remember when you write a letter you write it to an audience. You don't grab your phone and start writing a text message and then decide who it best applies to in order to send it. Most of us if you do do that please note that on your connect card so we can pray for you after service. But most people when you write an email or you write a text message you figure out who you're writing to and then you speak to them in the context of that relationship. The New Testament letters are no different. Once we know who wrote it, we know when they wrote it, we can look at the audience to whom they are speaking and that is the frame of reference for correctly interpreting James's words. I also want you to remember the Bible is written for you but it's not written anybody know the end of that quote? To you. It is written for you it is not written to you. James lived in the first century. He was an early first century Christian leader in the church at Jerusalem. When he wrote his letter he was not writing to Jim and Lisa. Spoiler alert Jim and Lisa are here with us today. They weren't in first century Jerusalem. However that does not mean that the book of James does not have quality things to teach us. It means we must first see what he was saying to his original audience and then ask what does that mean for us today. That's the proper method of biblical interpretation. So I'd like to look at James chapter two. The first thing I want to do is read the whole text. We're going to read verses one to 13 and then I want to go back and walk through this piece by piece. So here is James chapter two starting in verse one. My brothers and sisters believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ you must not show favoritism. Suppose a man comes into your meeting wearing a gold ring and fine clothes and a poor man in filthy old clothes comes in. If you show special attention to the man wearing fine clothes and say here here's a good seat for you but to the poor man say you stand there or go sit on the floor by my feet. Have you not discriminated amongst yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen my dear brothers and sisters has God not chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith and to inherit the kingdom he promised to those who love him? But you have dishonored the poor. Is it not the rich who are exploiting you? Are they not the ones who are dragging you into court? Are they not the ones who are blaspheming the whole of the noble name of him to whom you belong? If you really keep the royal law found in scripture love your neighbor as yourself. You are doing right but if you show favoritism you sin and are convicted by the law as law breakers. For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at just one point is guilty of breaking all of it. For he said you shall not commit adultery and also said you shall not murder. If you do not commit adultery but do commit murder you have become a law breaker. Speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. Mercy triumphs over judgment. So we stop right there. Let's rewind back to verse one. There's a lot going on in this chapter. Remember that they framed the audience are first century believers likely many Jewish believers right because almost all of the first Christians were Jews. James the half brother of Jesus would be a Jewish convert maybe an early Jewish Christian. It's at or about this time in the middle of the 40s early 50s we start seeing gentile Christianity start to outweigh. So the very beginning of our faith the first 10 so years there are a lot more Jewish Christians than non-Jewish Christians. Round about when you get to the 50s especially like 8049, they kicked people out of Rome. All of a sudden we start seeing more gentile Christians and of course today we see way more gentile Christians than Jewish Christians. So we start seeing more gentile Christians than non-Jewish Christians. So we start seeing more gentile Christians than non-Jewish Christians. So here is the first or the next fill in the blank letter A on your notes is favoritism is forbidden for all believers. Favoritism is forbidden for all believers. Let's look at verse one. My brothers and sisters. That's four words in English. It is one word in Greek. The word is Adelphos and it literally means Adelphos literally means all of those related in my clan. So I could be like if I was going to try to like translate this I could be like yo fam. Now all the Gen Zers just got it right. So my brothers and sisters he's literally meaning all of you who belong to my tribe my fam my peeps. Listen and then he clarifies who is the my fam believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ. I love the fact I love the fact that this is James the half brother of Jesus. If we're right about who the audience is that James the half brother of Jesus did not come to saving knowledge of Jesus until after the resurrection. So he grew up his whole life just thinking Jesus was his half brother his older half brother. And now all of a sudden here we are AD 45 to 48 and James has completely realized that Jesus is the divine God. And believers are those who have been entrusted or those who trust who do they trust in. They trust in the Lord Jesus Christ the word Lord specifically recognizes authority over what James is saying is. If you are my brothers and sisters you are my brothers and sisters because you have placed your trust or we also say your faith in the glorious Lord Jesus meaning he's the one who has authority over all of us. If you are in that category if you trust in Jesus if you see him as Lord then number one you're my fam. And number two you are not allowed to show favoritism notice how he speaks to the scope first. So one thing we would not be allowed to do is you would not be allowed to take this verse and apply it directly to anyone who's not a Christian. And I think that's important to understand as we move through this text James's audience are believers in Jesus. He is speaking to the first century church whatever lessons we draw from his words they must also apply to Christians. You with me so far I don't think it's too bad. So here we go. And then the word favoritism or some translations say partiality. That's another way to translate that word. It literally means favoring one person or a group based on your personal preference. So I definitely show favoritism for certain types of food. That's my personal preference. My favorite food group is dessert. I take cookies cakes ice cream brownies. That's a food group and I absolutely have a preference for that food group. Right. I got a nice big nod for Mr. Tom in the back. Right. Mr. John ice cream for certain best food group on the planet. Even my daughter in the back. I can show preference. Why? Because when it comes to the foods that I eat I am allowed to show partiality over my own personal tastes. But when it comes to other people in the church we are not permitted to have opinions about favoritism or partiality within the church. That's verse one. We're starting coming out the box swinging hard. Now the question is why is that the case? Why are we not permitted to show favoritism in the church? I think the reason or the answer to that question is actually in verse one. It's the way he titles who we are and who Jesus is. Notice he uses the word Lord. The word Lord in Greek is kourios and it means he who holds authority over others. So here's why I believe James in verse one does not allow us to show favoritism. Because in the kingdom of Christ none of us are the king. Right? The kingdom of Christ has one king and it ain't any of us. It's him. It's Jesus. And if he is truly the Lord if he is the king over the entire church then we are all his servants. This is the logical justification for why you and I are not permitted to show favoritism. Because you and I hold equal rank in the kingdom of God. We are all servants and only he is king. And if that is true that only he is king and all of us are mere servants then that means all of us have equal rank. We all have equal stature and we should not be using our preferences to show partiality. Showing favoritism in the church violates our mutual position as fellow servants and challenges his singular position as the glorious king. And that is why verse one absolutely states favoritism in the church is to be forbidden. All right. Letter B. Not only is it forbidden favoritism is evil and prideful. Favoritism is evil and prideful. Also just like little ADHD side note. Remember the timing here. We're talking 15 18 years after the resurrection itself. And James is already having to write to the church to don't show favoritism. So the idea that we have this pull to rank people either by their income or rank people by their skin tone or rank people by whatever language they learn to speak first. Rank people by you know whatever their driving record is or whatever their checking account is. I want you to see that that's not a new thing. We as Christians have been facing this challenge since the birth of the faith. James is writing something that's still culturally relevant today. Right. It's still culturally relevant to want to rank people by their income. I'll tell you this. There are whole church growth strategies built on classifying people by their income level. There are. It's called donor development. See thanks, good job. I look at her face and my brain works better. There's an entire strategy of church growth called donor development where the pastor needs to know what the giving of everyone in the church is and then he spends his time with the top 10 percent of givers and that's how you grow the church. I just need you to understand that I think that's absolutely demonic and I'll never do it because I need to be able to look out at all of you and treat you as equals. And so I'm not allowed to know any of that information. That was catalyst policy before I arrived. It just happens to be policy that I 100 agree with and I think it's true. But this concept of wanting to rank people is very built into us as humans. So here I need you to see letter B. Favoritism is equal. Let's look at verse two. Suppose a man. Stop. Suppose a man. So here's what I need to understand. The story that James is presenting is fictional. He's creating an example to teach a point. The two people in this example, the wealthy man and the poor man, are not real in the sense that they're historical. They are real because they are being used as an example in a document that's historical. You with me? The same thing applies to like the prodigal son. The prodigal son was never a real person. The prodigal son was never an actual historical human being. The prodigal son is a character in a fictional story that the historical human being Jesus told. Same instance here. So suppose a man comes into your meeting wearing a gold ring and fine clothes and a poor man in filthy old clothes comes in. So in this scenario, two things to note. Number one, it says into your meeting. We are talking about the public meeting of the Christian church. What you and I are doing right now is the setting for which James is talking about in the first century. Suppose a man comes into your meeting and now he gives two instances here. One is the gold ring wearing fine clothes. The other one is the poor man and filthy old clothes. So clearly what we're doing is we are juxtaposing a person of means and a person of need. You see that? I don't think that's hard for our culture to see there. Verse three, if you show special attention, I need you to say something about this. When you show special attention to someone, that means you are looking more favorably on them than others. By definition, I submit to you that favoritism is the other side of the coin from discrimination. I think these two things go together. When I show preferential treatment to one group, in this example, wealthy persons, if I show preferential treatment to wealthy persons, I am also by definition giving less treatment, meaning not necessarily less than I treated everyone else, but it's less than over here because I created preferential treatment here, which means every time you favor someone, you disadvantage someone else. You just get the difference. He's saying within the body of Christ, within the church, we should not do this. If you show special attention to the man wearing fine clothes, here is a good seat for you. But say to the poor man, you stand there or sit on the floor by my feet. So now in this first century parabolic example, James is saying we're looking favorable on the wealthy Christians by giving them good seats. Notice the special action based on the special attention. That's why you got to stop the floodgate at showing special attention to anyone because special attention will always lead to special action. And then the sitting on the floor is the lesser action based on the lesser attention. Or excuse me, the end of verse three, having him sit on the floor is lesser action based on lesser attention. Verse four, have you not discriminated among yourselves? Stop. The word discriminated in Greek doesn't mean exactly what it means in our culture. So in our culture, when we use the word discrimination, it carries a large emotional weight as if you are insulting someone or if you're stepping on them, you're putting them down. In first century Greek, this word means that you are elevating yourself to the position of a judge. When you show favoritism, it's not focused on the person you're showing favoritism to. It's focused on you yourself. You are giving yourself permission to be elevated above them and thereby pass judgment on them. That's what this word discriminated means here. So have you not discriminated, or if I could swap that word out, have you not literally judged someone different as yourself? That's what that word means, to judge something as different than yourself. And then he clarifies the type of discrimination, the type of judgment that has happened is among yourselves. Who is yourselves? Who's the audience that James is writing to? The church. Which means when he says have you not elevated yourself to be judged among yourselves, who's the group that's the yourselves? The church. So verse four, have you not given yourself the authority, that's discriminate, among yourselves within the church and become judges with evil thoughts? The word judges in verse four is the same root word as the word discriminate in verse four. That's, we totally miss that if we read it in English. Judge and discriminate don't sound anything alike in our language, but they are the same exact root word in James's language. That's why I need you to see that when you discriminate, give yourself the authority to judge others, you are automatically becoming the evil judge. So same root word there, and it's rooted on the permission you're giving yourself, not the judgment that you're passing on someone else. Setting standards for how believers should be judged assumes an authority and a position that we do not have. That's why this is wrong. Again, in the body of Christ, we, me included, are all servants, he, all of us excluded, only king. If that is true, we all servants, he only king, then none of us are justified in assuming some level or grander station that we're allowed to become the judge of others. That makes sense? All right, then we get to letter C. The kingdom should not look like the world. The kingdom should not look like the world. The kingdom should not look like the world. Let's jump back in in verse five. Now here he adds a little bit of an emphatic statement. Listen, Adelphos, listen, my brothers and sisters, my fam, my family, my brothers and sisters, my fam, who are all related because we all trust in Jesus, right? Adding that word listen, now he's getting a little emphatic. He's like, this is like a full chest kind of conversation. He's getting a little more stringent on it. Has, and now we give a second example, has God, has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith and to inherit the kingdom that he promised them? So notice in James's example, he started with two fictional characters, the wealthy believer and the non-wealthy believer. He's now kind of flipping that idea of wealth, and he's saying here, has God not chosen the poor in the eyes of the world? So poor in the eyes of the world literally means those who do not have money. You also have to understand that this is happening in first century Rome. In first century Rome, if you had enough money, you didn't have very many problems. You could buy security, you could buy pleasure, you could buy justice. You could literally buy off the judge to hear your case when no one else was around and give the judgment that you wanted to have. So when he says here, the poor in the eyes of the world, that's like the majority of people who live in the Roman Empire. He's saying the poor in the eyes of the world are rich in faith. Now, how is this? How are we supposed to rightly interpret poor in the eyes of the world rich in faith? Well, number one, I would say poor in the eyes of the world is pretty obvious. They don't have a lot of worldly money or worldly wealth. But what is it to be rich in faith? Well, notice what he pairs it with. He doesn't say rich in faith, period, stop, end of sentence. He says rich in faith to inherit the kingdom promised to those who love him. Many parents try to leave an inheritance for their children, yes? Wealthy people leave large inheritances to their children. We even have a term for that in our society today. What's it called? Generational wealth, right? That's been the target. Every rich family wants to remain a rich family. And every person who's not a rich person wants to become a rich person so that their kids can be richer, right? That's just the way the worldly monetary system works. So for those people who do not have a large possession of monetary wealth, how are we to understand them being rich in faith? It is because in the kingdom of God, no matter how much money you have, all of us have the same spiritual inheritance. Every single believer in Jesus will inherit the coming kingdom. Whether you die with $5 or $5 billion, all of the world's dollars stay in the world. What's the old phrase? You can't take it. With you. With you when you go or when you die. You can't take it with you when you die. It's not just you can't take it with you on vacation. We figured that one out. You can't take it with you when you die. Why? Because worldly wealth will always remain in worldly wealth, which also means kingdom wealth is not affected by worldly wealth. And that's what he's saying here. He's saying you must stop judging people as the wealthy believer and the poor believer. Because guess what? Both of y'all have the same inheritance. Keep in mind, we are talking first century Rome. There are no social government policies to help those in need. Beggars die in the street of starvation or are captured and made slaves or are sold by other people to make more money. Human life is incredibly cheap in the Roman Empire. I think at some point they said something like 70% of the people who lived in the Roman Empire were slaves. 70% of the Roman population were owned by some other Roman human. So he's saying for all of you who are the non-wealthy believer, you are still rich because the inheritance in your next life is not affected by the amount of money that you inherited in this life or the amount of money that you will leave behind. Faithful believers will automatically receive the kingdom. And that means you are rich. You can hold out for the inheritance. Now keep in mind, AD 45, we're starting to see some persecution really ramp up. Christians are being murdered for following Jesus. Christianity is still an illegal religion in the Roman Empire. The first few hundred years of our faith, being a Christian was against the law. I don't think we have a frame of reference for that. Listen, I feel very blessed to have grown up in America. We have a lot of privileges in this country. Doesn't mean our country doesn't have a lot of problems. Trust me, there's always going to be problems while humans are involved in power. But we have a lot of privileges and one of them is we're not here today worried that the government is going to crash through the doors and execute us for worshiping Jesus. There are Christians on other sides of this planet who live in constant threat of that today. Those of you who know we support a missionary family in an undisclosed location on the planet where they serve in a hostile territory, they know exactly what that feels like. Where the government itself could put a price on your head or authorize any faithful person to execute you merely because of the name of Jesus. We have a lot of blessings. We have a lot of blessings. But all of the monetary blessings that we have in our country, they remain in this life. You're not going to take a single stitch of it when you go. And that's what makes the poor, in his analogy, wealthy. Also, I would say largely that the wealthy rely on their money and so then there are many times, Jesus even said it's hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Why? Because if you have enough money, sometimes you don't understand your need. If you have enough money that you can just fix all your problems by buying something. If you have enough money that you don't understand what true need is, explaining to someone what their spiritual needs are is very difficult. If you grow up not having a lot, you grow up in struggle. Explaining spiritual struggle is very much easier to understand. So the kingdom of God, the goal is creation. We are waiting for the process where redemption restores us to an uncorrupted kingdom. And that is all of our inheritance. No matter how much money you have or how much money you don't have. But now we get back to verse 6. But you have dishonored the poor. How did you dishonor the poor? You dishonored the poor by making the poor guy sit on the floor by your nasty, stanky feet. And you gave the rich guy the really cool like swivel chair. Okay, let's be honest. They probably didn't have a swivel chair. But if they had a swivel chair, it'd be cool to play with. So you have dishonored the poor. And now he gives a couple of reasons. Is it not the rich who are exploiting you? Are they not the ones who are dragging you into court? And the next verse, are they not the ones blaspheming the noble name of whom you belong? All of these examples are illustrating the difference between first century Roman society and the expectation of how Christians are supposed to treat each other. He is using real life examples of how the rich in first century Rome exploit the poor. And how do they do that? Take a look. Are not the rich exploiting you? They use their wealth to make you do more than they have to. Are they not the ones dragging you into court? Why? Because they can buy off the court. They don't have a blind sense of justice like we do in America. They'll just straight off by the court. And the court will pass the judgments they want because they're going to give the right money to the right person. Then verse seven. Are they not the ones blaspheming the noble name for whom you belong? All of these are first century examples of how the rich stood against the kingdom objectives of the church. And he culminates in verse seven with blaspheming the noble name of Jesus. Why? Because it's the noble name of Jesus that we all find our joint identity. It's the noble name of Jesus that brings us unity. It's the noble name of Jesus that brings us together. If you're going to throw shade on the name of Jesus, you certainly don't respect any of us. But all of that is the first century examples that are juxtaposing these two people. Then you scroll down a little bit more. Letter D. The royal law remains in effect. The royal law remains in effect. This is just the one verse. Verse eight. But if you keep the royal law found in scripture, then he defines what the royal law is. Love your neighbor as yourself. You are doing right. So a couple of key points from this verse. Number one, why are we calling it the royal law? Who's the king of the kingdom of God? Jesus. When a king passes a proclamation, what's it called? A royal law. So how can I justify you that love your neighbor as yourself is something that comes from God? Well, number one, you could have found it in the gospels, but Jesus is actually quoting the Old Testament law. For those of you who are taking notes, write down Leviticus chapter 19 verse 18. Leviticus chapter 19 verse 18. Love your neighbor as yourself is not a New Testament teaching. It is a Levitical law expectation for God's people. It goes all the way back to the beginning. Love your neighbor as yourself. Leviticus chapter 19 verse 18. This exemplifies God's moral law over both the Old Testament and the New Testament. It is the royal law because it comes from the authority of God himself. We don't really have an analogy for this in our culture because of the way our government is designed. We don't have a king who has divine right the way other kings in other countries and empires in the past have. We have elected officials who get elected and then they have to get re-elected, but we don't have somebody who just allowed to pass laws because they were born into it. Think back into old-timey like when it was England and they still operated under a full monarchy, not the way England operates now but under an actual monarchy or the or France before the French Revolution. They had a divine king who could just spit royal law and it be passed for what it is. We don't really have that but you can see the analogy. The king of kings, the king of the kingdom of God has said both in his Old Testament teachings and the New Testament teachings that means that this royal law of love your neighbor as yourself remains in effect for you and I today. It's not just an Old Testament thing that we can let go. It's not just something that Jesus said in the New Testament that was a good moral teacher. No, if he truly is the king then his law is still in effect for you and I today as part of his church. Then letter E, favoritism is sin. There's no way around it. No, if, ands or buts, favoritism is sin. Look at verse 9. But if you show favoritism, you sin and are convicted by the law as law breakers. Now keep in mind if James was writing in AD 45 to 48 and the majority of the Jewish or the majority of his audience are Jews, he's not going to be able to do that. He's referring to the Mosaic law, the Old Testament covenant. In case you were wondering, yes, for those of you who like taking notes, do not show favoritism. Leviticus 19 verse 15. Do not show favoritism is Leviticus chapter 19 verse 15. It is in the Old Testament law and the New Testament law that we are all in favor of favoritism. It is in the Old Testament law and the New Testament law. Why? Because showing favoritism violates the righteous justice of God. And that is why it's a royal law that remains in effect for all of his people for all of eternity. But if you break the law, now keep in mind in a Jewish mindset, they would have not wanted to be a law breaker. They would have not wanted to be found guilty of breaking God's law. So verse 10. For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at just one point is guilty of breaking all of it. Now, he is specifically referencing the Old Testament here. Whoever breaks the whole law is guilty or one point is breaking all of it. You know why? Because obedience is not a piecemeal endeavor. Obedience can't be done step by step. It starts step by step, but it's completed as a whole. If you're obedient, you're obedient. If you're disobedient in one piece, you're still disobedient. If you break one piece of the law, you are still a law breaker. And here James is illustrating that not showing favoritism was still a part of the Old Testament law. So even if they were Old Testament Jews, they should still be obeying it. Verse 11. For he said, you shall not commit adultery and also said you shall not murder, both of those in the Ten Commandments, right? The Decalogue, probably the most famous bit of law from the Old Testament. If you do not commit adultery, but you do murder, you have become a law breaker. This is his justification for why showing favoritism is a law breaker. Do you notice what he is equating favoritism to? He's making favoritism equal to murder and adultery. Probably the two biggest like no-nos from like all the bad stuff you could do. Let's not murder. Let's not cheat. And let's not show favoritism. That's the depth, the weight that James is putting on this idea. That James is equating favoritism or the violence that favoritism does to God's righteousness in the same hand as adultery and as murder. And then we get to verse 12. Speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom. Now he's making a flip. What is the law that gives freedom? He's referencing back to verse 25 of this book, James 1.25. The reason the law gives freedom is we are freed from sin by the law of Christ. We are freed from sin by Jesus. Because keep in mind who's the audience? Christians. He's not writing to unsaved people. He's writing to saved people. He's writing to justify people. He's writing to adopted people. He's writing to people who are already members of the kingdom of God. And what is he saying? That we are freed from sin. Christians should speak and act out of the forgiveness they have received in Christ because that is where your freedom comes from. We are free in Christ and that's where freedom is rooted. We don't have to speak and act a certain way in order to get freedom from God. We speak and act a certain way because we already have received it. And this is really getting to the whole faith and works issue, right? Christians should do good things not to be saved but because they are saved. And we'll deal with that again when we get to law and works later. But I just wanted you to see a proto of that. And then verse 13, because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. Merciful triumphs over judgment. Please, please, please, please, please. Never quote this verse and think it's about salvation. So many people get that wrong. Verse 13, judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. When we, as 21st century Christians, hear the word judgment, we immediately jump to a heaven or hell, salvific style judgment. I have a hard time justifying the idea that because I'm saved through Christ, I still have to also be saved through myself. So what kind of judgment, if he's not referring to the go to heaven or go to hell kind of judgment, and he shouldn't be because the audience are all Christians. If you are a Christian, there is no option for you to go to hell. You've already been saved. When Jesus saved you from your sins, he saved you past, present, and future. Now we could debate so teriologically whether you're capable of committing a sin in the future. I would then have to ask you, did Jesus not know in the past when I came to him, all the stupid stuff I would do in the future? Is the death, Jesus's death on the cross is only good in real time? It's only good for the sins I've committed up to this morning? No, Jesus's death is good for all sin. It's capable of forgiving all sin. So if we're forgiven past, present, and future, and the audience of this book are people who are already forgiven, then we should not read verse 13. The word judgment does not apply to the great white throne judgment. Those who are here when we study Revelation, there are two judgments in Revelation. There's the great, great, the great white throne. Sorry guys. You would think I speak for a living Jim. The great white throne judgment. There we go. The great white throne judgment is the judgment that sends people to hell. But if we are Christian, we've already been saved, we don't ever go to that judgment. There is a second judgment over here. This is called the Bema, B-E-M-A. It's called that because in the first century, the Bema was literally the judge's bench that they sat on. Anybody ever been in a courtroom or seen an episode of like law and order? The judge sits up on an elevated platform, right? What do you call the thing the judge sits on? The bench. The Bema is the first century word for the bench. The only time I've ever been like, well, I've been in a courtroom twice and they were both for family related issues. But the one that I found most terrifying is when we were finalizing the adoption for my oldest daughter and I had to go to the court. And because it was an adoption from the foster system, it was a closed room. There was no audience in the room. So I walked into this room and I'm walking with the attorney that has been working with us that represents the state and is helping to make the adoption finalized. And I walk in with her and I walk in and there's an empty courtroom. There is a very scary looking female judge sitting at the bench. There is an equally scary looking armed bailiff right here. Big dude. There's the stenographer and there's one other attorney. And so I go and I stand at the table where I am like literally scared out of my mind because I've never had to like actually talk to a judge in court. And so I'm at the table and I'm sitting here with the attorney and she looks at me and she can tell I'm a little kind of like nervous. She goes, just remember you're the good guy. Okay. They're not coming for you. So just take a breath. And I go, okay. And then the judge starts the proceedings and makes sure the stenographer is taking the notes and turns to the bailiff and she's like, you got this if we go sideways? He's like, yeah. And then she says, Mr. Yolmes, will you please stand up? Yes, I'm. I said, I said, yes, ma'am. And they went, oh, I'm sorry. Yes, your honor. I apologize. And she goes, I need you to come here. We walk through the thing. I'm literally standing at the bench. I'm not a short dude. The bench is here at my eye level. And she looks down at me and the judge says, I just want you to know I've been watching over your daughter's case ever since her docket hit the court. She has been my pet project. And then she turns a picture frame around. And it was a picture of Zoe that sat on her bench. And she turned it around and she says, I need you to understand how important this young woman is. And I need you to understand how happy we all are that she's going to a family like yours. Because we've all been praying for her for a while. And to my knowledge, the picture is still there. She didn't hand me the photo. So I think the picture is still on the bench. But the reason, and I knew I was the good guy in the story. And I was like, I was still nervous as mess. Because there's an authority that comes from that bench. There's a power that the bench wields. This is the bench that he's referring to in verse 13. He is not referring that we should fear going to hell. Because as Christians, that has already been decided. The blood of Jesus has already given me God's righteousness over top of my sinfulness. I have already been forgiven of the penalties of my sin. But I still got to go stand at the bench and have Jesus review the actions of my life. Exactly. Exactly. That's going to be a nerve-racking moment. The book of Revelation is very clear. God is keeping record of every action, of every moment, of every life. And the judgment that he is referring to here is not the, well you haven't done enough good things so you get to go to hell. Because that's not in the Christian worldview. I know it's not popular to say, but you have to understand, no matter how evil someone's life is, if they truly repent and come to Christ, they are forgiven. If you can't see that, then it's not a problem with Jesus, it's a problem with you. The cross must be big enough. It must be powerful enough. The blood of Jesus must be strong enough to overtake any amount of sin. Because if it's not, then God's not fully just. But the judgment here in verse 13 is called the Bema judgment. What's done at the Bema judgment? The Bema judgment is the reward ceremony that happens at the end of this life as we begin eternity. It's when the actions of your life are reviewed by Jesus. Jesus is the judge at the Bema. God the Father is the judge at the great white throne. Anyone who goes to the great white throne is already destined for hell, that's the judgment that sends them there. Think about you go to jail, then you get a judge, then you go to prison. Same idea. You're in Hades, then you go great white throne, then you go to hell. We go to paradise, we await the end of days, then we go to the Bema judgment, where Jesus opens the book of our life and he goes, okay Jim, here's how this played out. Here's what I gave you, here's what you did with it, these are your rewards for the next life. All right, Jerry, here's how this plays out. Here's what I gave you, here's what you did with it, these are your rewards in the next life. Now let me read verse 13. Judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. Mercy triumphs over judgment. He's not talking about the judgment that sends us to hell. He's talking about how lenient will Jesus be with you when he's reviewing your life and deciding what your rewards will be for all of eternity. I don't know about you, but I'm not sure that makes me feel a lot better. Man, I wish I was more merciful. I have like that Ebenezer Scrooge moment where I'm like, man, I really need to like stop making chains because I feel like I'm not a very flexible person at times. But I know when I reach the Bema judgment and Jesus opens up the ADHD book of Bill, man, I'm hoping, John, are you hoping he's in a merciful mood when he opens your book? You know, Ray, you think he's gonna be in a merciful mood when he opens your book? John, you're merciful mood when he opens your book? Gary, same question. That's the verse 13. And that's why favoritism is so evil and sinful because it pushes us to be the judge of others and it pushes us to judge others in a way that we should not be. So let me give you the takeaways. We bring this in for a landing. Favoritism is sinful. Favoritism is sinful. Let me say that a little bit again. Favoritism is sinful and has no place in the church because believers are equal and Jesus is king. Favoritism is sinful and has no place in the church because believers are equal and Jesus is king.