Well good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us in worship this morning. Whether you are here on campus in our sanctuary or you are joining us online via our virtual service, thank you for choosing to worship and be a part of the Catalyst family. Now here at Catalyst we're about one thing and there's gonna be a fill-in-the-blank here so ready to go. We're about loving people to life change in Christ. Life change in Christ. So if you're worshiping with us this morning, whether it's the first time you've been here or the first time in a long time, we love you. But we love you enough to tell you the truth. We do not want you to stay the same. I hope that being a part of our worship service this morning, that worship will move you, that prayer will move you. Hopefully I will share something from the Bible that you didn't know before and all of that will motivate you to change something in your life. To be more like Jesus because that's what we're here to do. Now this morning we're going to be concluding the teaching series we've been walking through. We've been in the Gospel of John chapter 1. So I'm gonna ask you to open your Bibles to the Gospel of John chapter 1. Turn our top with me. John is the fourth Gospel in the New Testament. Melanie, I totally forgot the handheld mic. Could you bring it to me please? So I want to do something a little different this morning. I would like to ask for a volunteer who wants to help me tell the big Bible story. So who wants to be brave and volunteer? Before I voluntarily told somebody. Kenzie, all right come on Kenzie. Everybody give Miss Kenzie a hand. All right come on. All right so you and I are gonna try to tell the big Bible story from Genesis to John. Ready? So I'm gonna feed it to you. All you gotta do is fill in blank. So come over here just a little bit. Ready? In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. That's right. Adam and Eve lived in the garden of Eden. Correct. Then all of a sudden sin happens in chapter 3. They're pushed out of the garden. In chapter 9 a flood happens and a guy named Noah builds an ark. Right? Then in chapter 12 God chooses a man named, starts with an A. Abraham. Yes! That's right. He chooses a guy named Abraham. God makes a covenant with Abraham and changes his name to Abraham. That's right. Then Abraham has a son named, Isaac has a son named, that's right. That's right. It's totally okay. You can feed her the lines. Here we go. So Isaac has a son named Jacob. Jacob has 12 sons. Then the youngest son is named Joseph. They sell him off into slavery. That gets us to the end of the book of Genesis. Then 400 years they're enslaved. In the beginning of the book of Exodus they're enslaved in Egypt. They cry out for a deliverer and God sends them a man named, starts with an M. Moses. That's right. God sends a man named Moses. Moses redeems the children of Israel. So you get the ten plagues. After the ten plagues they walk on dry ground across the? Oh my gosh. The Red Sea. The Red Sea. That's right. They walk across the Red Sea. Then God points a guy named Joshua. They move into the land of Canaan. Then they have judges. Then what is it that Israel wants like all the other kids have? A king. That's right. They want a king. Who's the first king of the Unanon Marnakee of Israel? Starts with Sones. Saul followed by David followed by Solomon. That's right. She's doing so good with y'all. Back up. Right. Solomon. Then after Solomon what happens? No. No. Civil war. Right. Civil war. We fracture to the northern kingdom of? Anybody know? Starts with an I. Israel and the southern kingdom of? Judah. Right. Then they're in their divided kingdom period for a while and then they still have a disobedience problem and God sends them into exile. Right. Then there's Esther. There's Daniel. Nehemiah. Ezra. They come home. And now how many years of silence between the Old Testament and New Testament? 400. 400 years. And then God ends those 400 years by sending an angel to a guy who's serving at the temple and his name is? Starts with a Z. Zechariah. Zechariah who has a very important son whose name is? John. John. That's right. Alright everybody give Kenzie a hand. Okay so pop quiz. Somebody else is up next week. It's important that we do that. It's important that we review the big Bible story because the Bible is not just 66 random texts that were pulled from out all of history that just randomly go together. I believe that the word of God is the word of God and it's 66 books written by more than 40 human authors over a period of 1500 years on three different continents in three different original languages that tell one story of how much a loving God loves us. That's important to review. So everybody give Kenzie another hand. That was tough. Especially being first out of the gate. So I want to end where Kenzie left off. God sends an angel to a man named Zechariah. That is the first action that kicks off the events of the New Testament. That's kind of the first domino of the New Testament. God tells Zechariah you're going to have a son. His name will be John. He will be filled with the Holy Spirit from birth and he will be the forerunner of the Messiah. So pop quiz. What's the name of the Messiah King of Israel? Starts with a J. Jesus. That's right. Just want to make sure we're all going to the same place, right? So here we are. We're in the Gospel of John chapter one. Let me give you the key thought that's going to make this message tie in with the last three weeks. How we view Jesus affects how we relate to him. John's view of Jesus grounds his message about him. So how we view Jesus directly affects how we relate to him. If we only view Jesus as a first century Jew, as a human who lived and died and doesn't matter anymore, then that directly affects how we relate to him. If we view Jesus as the Jewish teacher but not the son of God Messiah, it affects how we relate to him. If we view Jesus as the Logos, the pre-existent God who then became flesh, who then died for sin, it affects how we relate to him. So here we're going to look today. We're going to look at John chapter one, verse 29 to 34, 29 to 34. So first, I'd like to read it for you. And then I want to sort of chop this up and see how this works and everything that John has been telling us about Jesus. So let's start here, John chapter one, verse 29. I did not know him, but the reason I came baptizing with water was that he might be revealed to Israel. Then John gave this testimony. He is God's chosen one. So that's all we're going to look at. So let's rewind back to verse 29 and then let's remind ourselves where we're at. So John 1, 1, in the beginning was the word and the word was God. Right? In the beginning was the word and the word was God. In the very opening sentence of John's gospel, he wants to make sure that we understand before we get into Nazareth, before we get into miracles, before we get into sacrifice, he wants you to know that Jesus is God. So that was week one. Then week two, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. Everybody think, con carne, carne asada. Everybody, that's all you need to think about to understand this verse. And word became flesh, literally put on meat. God added humanity to his divinity and he became God. Now here we're going to look at, verse 29 says, the next day. So the next day after what? Well, two things you need to realize. First, the next day is a reference to time. This is not just some random made up fairy tale like story. John is telling us actual historical events that took place. Also notice here the word John in verse 29 is a reference to John the Baptist, not John the apostle. Remember, you're reading a book written by a dude named John who's now talking about a different dude named John. So if you'll allow me to add the term in here, the next day, John the Baptist saw Jesus coming toward him and said, look, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. I want to just stay on that sentence for a minute because there's two big things we need to see. First, what is the Lamb of God? Now keep in mind, John the Baptist is the prophesied forerunner. So when we leave the Old Testament, there is an expectation that two dudes are going to show up. The first dude is the forerunner. He's going to prepare the way. Right? We talked about that last week. Make a straight path for the Lord's glory to return to Israel. So that was the forerunner. How you're going to know the Messiah showed up is he was going to have someone come before him. Brother is going to have an entourage clear the streets. Here, clear the way. So John the Baptist is the prophesied forerunner and Jesus is the Messiah. And that's one of the ways you can recognize his messianic identity. That also means that keep in mind, Jesus was a Jew. All of the original twelve apostles were Jews. John the Baptist is a Jew. So when we use a term like Lamb of God, John is not referring to Jesus's physicality. He didn't have a sheep looking face. He wasn't just super chest hairy. He's referring to a theological idea that he's the Lamb of God. So then why would a first century Jew refer to something like a lamb? Well, to understand that, now we've got to go back to the Old Testament. What did the Old Testament show? Well, the Old Testament does show that there are sin offerings. Interestingly though, if you look in the Old Testament carefully, the sin offering that the high priest would use once a year for the sin of the people wasn't a lamb. It was a goat. There's two different words. Just like in English, we have a word for lamb and we have a word for goat. In Greek and in Hebrew, they have a word for lamb and a word for goat. So when we see this term Lamb of God, quickly we want to go to like a sin offering or sin sacrifice. And you could. The problem is, if we're saying sin of the world, this is like a once and for all kind of issue. It's hard to make a relationship with the Old Testament scapegoat, which is actually where we get the term from. So a little Old Testament history, when they would have their annual celebration, the high priest would take a goat and he would symbolically pray over it and imbue on it all the sin of the people for the entire year. And then they would let it go run out in the wilderness. And Nate, they would let it go run out in the wilderness. That's literally the scapegoat, the escaping goat who takes all of our bad stuff away. Just making sure everybody's paying attention. I love how this half laughs and Nate just looks at me and goes. I can't make a goat joke and not be a dad at the same time. Sorry. So I don't think that when John says the Lamb of God, I don't think he's referring to the scapegoat. I think he's referring to the Passover story. So if we go back to where Kenzie was talking about Moses and how Moses redeemed the children of Israel out from slavery. What what did God require his people to do while they were in Egypt to take a lamb, to shed that lamb's blood and to put it on the doorposts over top of their home and in doing so, what did they get for having the lamb's blood over their door? What they got was a rescue from death. Well, what was the death for? The penalty for sin. So I think when John uses the term Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, I do not think he's trying to refer to the Old Testament sacrificial system as much as he's referring to a singular moment of redemptive history where God used the lamb's blood to rescue not only from death, but from slavery, from sin. And you don't get rescue without redemption into blessing. I think the Passover story is the correct frame to see this term the Lamb of God. Because if you go back and read, he had a lot of regulations. Listen, if your family wasn't big enough to eat a lamb by yourself, you're supposed to share it with your neighbors. You weren't supposed to leave anything left. You're supposed to have your cloak. Make bread that didn't have yeast in it because we got to go, man. We got we got a book. We got to get out. So when he says, look, the Lamb of God, I believe that John the Baptist is making a very clear reference not to a sin sacrifice, but to the redemptive lamb, the one from Exodus that redeems all of God's people from slavery, from sin and from death. That's pretty big statement. Lamb of God. And then he defines it. The Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. Everybody. He takes away the sin of the world. And here's the problem. The Old Testament is very clear. You cannot erase sin without sacrifice. And the Exodus story shows that the lamb was slaughtered. The lamb's blood was the evidence of sacrifice to purchase from death. Everybody see that? So when he says, look, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world, to me, John is is is reaching into his cultural past and he's using something that every first century Jew is going to get. Every first century Jew is going to look up to Moses. Every first century's Jews going to know we're the chosen people of God. Moses went up. Moses redeemed us. He went up. He brought down the law. He was a deliverer. He was a lawgiver. And if you keep reading through the Gospels, you're going to see time and time and time again where Jesus is the fulfillment of all that Moses prefigured. Jesus is the new lawgiver. Jesus went up on the mountain to give a teaching. That's Matthew 5, 6, 7, the Sermon on the Mount. The lawgiver goes up on the mountain and gives the new law and the new Constitution for his people. There's so much beauty in here. But when he says, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world, he's prefiguring Exodus. He's prefiguring a lamb whose blood will be shed for redemption from sin, the sacrifice to make the payment. Then in verse 30, he said, So if you weren't here last week, we looked at what John the Baptist's testimony was about Jesus. And John the Baptist both comes before Jesus and yet is after Jesus. And that gets a little confusing. What he meant was, if John 1, 1 is true, in the beginning was the word and the word is God, that means that Jesus is the eternal God. So God exists before humans. But John was sent to prepare the way for the earthly incarnation of Jesus. So John does come before Jesus in the sense of he's the forerunner and Jesus was physically born after him. If you look at the Christmas story, when God spoke to Mary, the mother of Jesus, she went and visited Elizabeth, who's the mother of John the Baptist. And Elizabeth was already well into her pregnancy. So John the Baptist was born before Jesus was born. But John the Baptist did not exist before God existed. So that's what John is saying here when he says, the one who comes after me has surpassed me because he was before me. The reason that Jesus can come after John the Baptist is he was physically and humanly born after John the Baptist. But he pre-existed John the Baptist because he was with God in the beginning at creation. And so now John is taking verse 29, all of that lamb sacrifice, sin redemption imagery, and he's combining it with the pre-existent God and the Messiah of Israel. These two verses are locking in all the right pieces to be able to understand who Jesus is. And he does all of this in John chapter 1, before we ever watch Jesus do any miracles or get his disciples together or mentally box with the Pharisees. And I believe John is doing this on purpose because if we do not properly understand who Jesus is, you will not understand what Jesus did or why he did it. So Jesus is the pastoral lamb, but he is also the one who the forerunner identifies. That's the Messiah. That's the one who's going to bring the glory of God back to Israel. 31. I myself did not know him, but the reason I came baptizing with water was that he might be revealed to Israel. So when John says, I didn't know him, you got two possibilities here. Number one, it is totally possible that John never met the human Jesus, son of Joseph the carpenter, when they were kids. I have no scriptural reference to prove to you that's true, but you only got two choices when he says, I didn't know him. Either John never met his cousin's kid. That's possible. I mean, I have distant cousins who I've never met their children before. Or John could be saying, I did not know the identity that he was the Messiah. See, it's also possible that John totally met Jesus. John and Jesus could have been cousins or distant cousins, and he could have met them when they were kids. I mean, they could have been kids playing out in the back 40 with the watch and the sheep, but you could not know that your cousin is the Messiah, son of God. I mean, like I get that. To me, the second one makes a lot more sense in what John is saying here. But I do want you to say it's possible that John the Baptist never met Jesus as a child. But I can't tell you that for sure because the Bible doesn't say that. The Bible only says here, I myself did not know him. But the reason I came baptizing with water was that he might be revealed to Israel. The revealed part is the Messiah identity of Jesus, which is why I think the second one makes more sense. It's not that he had never met Jesus before, although, Jerry, to be fair, it's possible. But the rest of the sentence is all about identifying Jesus as the one who takes away sin, as the payment, as redemption, and as that Messiah figure. Now, what does Messiah mean? This is what we talked about last week. The word Messiah means the anointed one, the chosen one to do something special that God has chosen. The chosen one is the one that God has preselected. Coming out of the Old Testament, what's the one thing that the first century Jews wanted? They wanted their kingdom back. They're being ruled by Rome. Rome did not take kindly to those who chose to disobey. They'll just kill you and maybe your kids will learn how to obey. And if your kids don't obey, we'll kill you and your neighbors will learn how to obey. And eventually, when I kill enough of you, you will figure out not to test me anymore. That was who the Romans were. In the second century, the Jews are totally ready for not just spiritual freedom, but they want political freedom. We want to go back to the days of Saul and David and Solomon, where the kingdom of Israel was respected. They weren't expecting a Messiah to redeem from sin and not also reestablish a kingdom. They were expecting the political Messiah. They got the Savior they needed. And I would submit to you that the political Messiah is an outstanding promise. So when we make it to October and we start walking through the book of Revelation, I think when you understand the expectations for the Old Testament, you're going to understand a lot better what God is doing in the book of Revelation because he's fulfilling those outstanding promises. I do believe that Jesus will fulfill all of the outstanding political promises of the Old Testament. He just hasn't done it yet. He came in his first incarnation to be the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. When Jesus comes back, he comes back to whip up on sin in a very, very real sense. So John the Baptist in 31 did not recognize the Messianic identity until God revealed it to him. Look at 32. Then John gave this testimony. A couple things I want you to see. Number one, John is giving testimony. It's the same word that we use for our legal proceedings. He is providing verbal, eyewitness testimony of an event. What is that event? The Spirit of God coming down from heaven. And this is super important. The Spirit of God remaining on him. So in the Old Testament, the Holy Spirit is active. We see the Holy Spirit at creation hovering over the waters. We see the Holy Spirit moving and empowering different priests and redeemer characters all throughout the Old Testament. But you know what the Holy Spirit never did until the New Testament? Remained with someone. It's like Samson, who was born with the Spirit, but he lost the Spirit through, we'll just call it disobedience. There's a whole lot of, like, there's a whole lot of 50 shades to that story that we're not going to get into this morning. But let's just understand that the Spirit was involved and then the Spirit left because he was really stupid. But the Spirit remaining, that verb there, to remain, now God is doing something new. Remember, Kenzie pointed out there was 400 years of silence between Malachi and Matthew. God didn't speak to his people. There was no new prophecy. There was no new scriptures. They were just living life by the grind, day by day. And now I saw the Spirit do something. This is what ushers in the Messianic age in a way that differs fully and directly from the Old Testament. When we make it to, you know, spoiler alert, if you haven't made it to the end of the Gospels, Jesus dies. Then he resurrects and comes back. And most of the time people stop there when telling the Christian story. The problem is, is that's not where we should stop. Yes, Jesus is incarnated as a human. Jesus dies on a cross. Three days later, Jesus resurrects. But then what does he do next? He teaches on earth for 40 more days. Now, we have no record of what Jesus taught during those 40 days. But Kim, I got to tell you, if somebody died and came back to life, you better darn well believe. I would listen to whatever they had to say because they've authorized themselves as an authority. And then we make it to the Book of Acts. In Chapter one, Jesus ascends to heaven. And in Chapter two, the Spirit of God descends and remains and remains on the New Testament church. We are seeing a prefiguring of the life, Fred, that you and I experience all the time. We're seeing that prefigured here with Jesus. Jesus is the first fruit, not only of the resurrection, but he is the first fruit of the Spirit doing something new in the Messianic age. Now, do I think that John the Baptist understood all of that? No, I don't. He was a human being. Let's not oversanctify the people in the Bible. Let's give them a clear witness of what they could have understood. He was given knowledge by God, and he was willing to see the Spirit of God descend down onto the person of Jesus. And that was how the forerunner would recognize who the Messiah was. So you had to have the forerunner know who that is, and then you had to have the forerunner's testimony. That man has the Spirit of God remaining on him. He is the one that God has chosen. That's how Israel was supposed to know that Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Also very interesting, the Gospel of John does not mention Jesus' baptism. Matthew, Mark, and Luke, they all mention Jesus being baptized by John. Did you notice that here in John, John the Apostle skips over the baptism. Why? Because he's focusing on the Spirit. He's focusing on the Spirit of God is doing something new with his people. What is he doing that's new? The Spirit of God is remaining with his people. Then we get to 33. He says again, So now John gets a little bit of an insider track. Jesus is going to do something new in the Spirit that has not been done previously. Now John the Baptist is filled with the Holy Spirit from birth. How did John get filled with the Spirit by the way? Anybody remember? While Mary was pregnant with Jesus in utero, Mary goes and visits Elizabeth. And what does Elizabeth say? The baby in my womb has leapt. And from that time John was filled with the Spirit. John was filled with the Spirit because of the presence of Jesus. In the same way that you and I today get filled with the Spirit because of the presence of Jesus. John experienced what you and I live in now as a precursor to this new Messianic age. See if you skip over stuff that just seems like, oh yeah, John was just saying this thing. No, John's making a powerful statement. As we get here to the end of chapter one, he said, Listen, the man on whom you see the Spirit come down, Jesus, and remain Jesus, the one who will baptize with the Holy Spirit. God revealed to John the Baptist that my Messiah isn't just coming to bring you political revival. My Messiah is coming to bring you spiritual renewal. This would be totally foreign to a first century Jewish understanding of what they just wanted, a military Messiah. Give me Hannibal and the 18 and let's, you know, let's wamp up on the Romans. Anybody who grew up in the 80s got that joke. The rest of you, see me after church. Okay? Sorry, I'm old. I have to use old. Listen, you get old guy jokes or you get dessert jokes. That's the only two I got. That's all I got. They wanted political revival. What they got was spiritual renewal. Look at 34. I have seen and I testify. I give you eyewitness testimony as evidence. This is God's chosen one. So now, I mean, let's just layer it in here. John 1, 1 in the beginning of the word was God. Start out your understanding. Jesus, though born as a human, started as the eternal God. Then it was like 1, 14, 15. And God became flesh. He put on seasoned yummy meat. Carne asada, right? He put, everybody's going to have, everybody's going to have Puerto Rican food for lunch. And you're going to thank me. You're going to go, why did Pastor Hildes do this? That's why. God, God then puts on flesh. He dwells in humanity. Remember, he tabernacles just like he did in the Old Testament. But now you couldn't just go to see God. You could meet God. Then John the Baptist says, this God who became flesh, he is the one who will clear the streets and make the way for God's glory to return to Israel. And how is he going to do that? God's glory will return to God's people through a renewal of the spirit that is something new I've never done before. And John, you get the first taste. He was born with the Holy Spirit. We receive it when we're born again. That's John chapter 3. We haven't made it to 3 yet. But that's what happens. You and I have the opportunity to experience the same spiritual renewal, the same life of the Holy Spirit when we are born again. John was just born with it because he was preselected by God. The evidence of who the anointed one would be is the revelation and the presence of the Holy Spirit remaining on us. That's the final thing here in John chapter 1 that John's trying to help us understand who Jesus is. You got to know Jesus started as God. God became a human being and tabernacled among us to have a relationship with us. As a human being, he will then fulfill that forerunner, bring the glory home. And how he will do that is by a spiritual renewal and age of the spirit. There's a lot of theology in these 35 verses. And I want you to understand all of that about Jesus before you go to John chapter 2, the wedding at Cana, John chapter 3, Jesus' conversation with Nicodemus. We learned John 3.16. That's all after this. So if I could bring this one to a close, let me go ahead and give you the takeaway. Here's how we bring this one in for a landing. Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away sin and brings a new age of spirit. It is not enough to see Jesus as one without the other. He is the Lamb of God who takes away sin 100% all day long. But this is only one half of the coin. The other half is Jesus ushers in a new age of the spirit that differs us from Old Testament revelation. See, in the Old Testament they had scriptures. In the Old Testament they had prayer. In the Old Testament they had worship. In the Old Testament they had sacrifice. They had offerings. They had tithes. Do you want to go back and live there? No. What's the one thing that makes the New Testament church different than Old Testament worship? The Spirit of God. And I get that I'm in a Baptist church, right? But the Spirit of God is a theological issue, right? I don't think we get to look at our Pentecostal friends and go, they're the only people that get to talk about the Spirit. They're the only people who get to experience the life of the Spirit. No. If the Holy Spirit is the third member of the Trinity, he's got just as much place in a Baptist church as he does in a Pentecostal church. You notice where all the Pentecostals are sitting in church, right? I just, I remember a conversation with my mom, I don't know, maybe a year or so ago. And she had read Forgotten God by Francis Chan. Wonderful book on the Holy Spirit. Francis Chan, an amazing, wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, Francis Chan, an amazing, amazing teacher. And I remember her saying to me on the phone, she goes, I feel like, I feel like my Christianity was sort of robbed. Like I was taught all about Jesus, my Savior, but I was not taught about the Holy Spirit, my Comforter. Like, what's up with that? Now, my wife, my wife was raised Pentecostal and I was raised Baptist. So as you can imagine, our dining room theological conversations are, are, are quite unique. My children have to survive a pretty big, pretty big onslaught. But John is opening his whole gospel by saying, guys, it's not enough to know that Jesus is God. It's not enough to know that God came in human form to save you from your sins. If you are not living in the new age fueled and renewed by the Spirit of God, you are missing the whole counsel of what Jesus came to do. That's what I want to share with you today. It's not enough to just be saved. That's enough to get into heaven, sure. But I'll be honest, I don't want to be saved and still have to live my life in my own strength. That sucks. That's not comfy. That's not easy. Because Jesus is calling us to a level of sacrifice and a level of missional living that requires the power of the Spirit, that requires that new thing, where the streets are cleared, where the glory of God ushers in this new age. Now, ultimately, we see that in Acts chapter 2. The Spirit comes, there's some cool stuff that happens, gifts happen. We're going to talk about that in a couple of weeks anyways. But I just can't. I would be so upset at myself if I left this little section of John and didn't ask these most basic questions. Number one, do you know Jesus as your Savior? Period. That's the first question. You've got to know Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. That means your sin. That means your sin too. But number two, for those of you who would absolutely say, I am 100% totally a Christian. I know that I have trusted in Jesus my salvation. Do you live in your own strength or do you live by the power of the Spirit? Because I think there's a lot of people who found out that Jesus is my Savior, but who haven't experienced the Holy Spirit as my comforter, the Holy Spirit as my guide, the Holy Spirit as my fruit bearer, my gift giver. Like there's a whole lot of theology over here, guys. And that doesn't mean that we all got to cluck like ducks and speak in tongues. No, there's a whole lot that the Spirit does that just looks like life. I've worked in the Pentecostal church. I can say that. So this is what I'd like to do. For those of you when you walked in this morning, you should have been given one of these bulletins. If you have your cell phone with you, I'd like to ask you to scan this little code here at the bottom where everybody's going to fill out a connect card. Now, if you would prefer not to use the digital card, there are cards in all of the chair backs in front of you. I'd like to ask everybody to get a card, but do not fill it out yet. Don't fill it out. Just get it. Whether you're going to go digital, whether you're going to go with the physical paper card, if you're watching us online, please look at the bottom of your screen. It says connect with us today, catalyst302.com slash connect. I'm going to ask you, go to our website or just punch that in. It'll take you right to the page. And there's two buttons on that page. One says I attended online, the other says I attended on campus. I'm going to ask all of you who are watching virtually, go to that page on our website and click the I attended online. This is your part of my sermon. Maybe you've never been to a church where you have to actually do something. This is that kind of church. It's not enough for me just to stand up here and talk at you. That's not good enough. What we now have to motivate you to do is do something. Remember, we started the whole service, love people too. Life change. Life change is your job, not mine. Praise Jesus. I don't have to answer for your life. I have to answer for my life. And trust me, there's a lot going on there. Right? So on your connect card this morning, here is your engagement step. I need to ask you two simple questions. Number one, do you know Jesus as the Lamb of God who takes away your sins? If you have questions about who Jesus is or what the gospel message really means, when the service is over, I'm going to stand over here in this front corner. I just want you to come down here and talk to me. I promise I can explain the gospel in 90 seconds and make it very simple for you to understand. So if you have questions about why we follow Jesus or who Jesus is, just meet me down here in the front corner when the service is over. But if you're not sure that you've experienced forgiveness through Jesus, that's step one. Number two, for those of you who know that you're Christians, do you live by the power of the Spirit or do you still live by yourself? Are you sure that you're accessing all of that comfort, all of that guidance, all of that wisdom that comes through the Spirit of God indwelling a human being? If you have questions about that, that's what I want you to put on your card. So the first thing is I want you to tell me yes, I absolutely trust in Jesus for my salvation. Hey, I have questions about this whole Jesus thing. You need to understand I'm not afraid of your questions. I love questions. Questions lead to conversations and that's good for me. So if you're not sure who Jesus is, you don't believe that Jesus rose, you don't believe that God exists, please tell me that on your card. I'll buy the coffee, we'll sit down and we'll talk it through. If you know that you're a Christian but you've not experienced the Spirit-filled part of that, the news, the refreshing, the indwelling of the presence of the Spirit, that's something that is yours. That's yours. Jesus already purchased it. God the Father sent it. But you've got to start accessing that and not just your own strength. So on your Connect card, either A, I want to trust in Jesus, B, I really want to learn more about who the Holy Spirit is, or C, pastor, I just don't get it. I've got questions.