So we are going to be continuing our exploration of the book of Jonah this week. Last week we took a look at Jonah chapter 1. This week we're going to take a look at chapter 2. And as you, if you brought your Bibles you can turn or tap with me to the book of Jonah as you're going there. Let me give you the key thought that's going to hold all of these messages together. The book of Jonah reminds us that God loves the disobedient. The book of Jonah reminds us that God loves the disobedient. I don't know about you but it makes me feel good. Because there are plenty of times that I fail. There's plenty of times that I'm the disobedient servant and I'm like, Lord thank you that you did not throw me to the wolves the 50 million times that I've already been disobedient. Now just to give everybody the historical background. Jonah is a prophet in the northern kingdom of Israel during the reign of Jeroboam the second. So obviously I really don't need to go any farther I'm sure everybody has Jeroboam on the tip of their tongue. We're talking about 800 to 750 years before the events of the New Testament. So we're like two-thirds through the Old Testament. If you remember in the Old Testament the children of Israel move into the land. Kenzie can you turn my mic down just a hair? I got a small ring in my ear. The children of Israel move into the land. The Joshua judges period. Then God gives them a king. Anybody remember who's the first king of the United Monarchy of Israel? Saul followed by? Followed by? That's right. Saul, David, Solomon. After Solomon the kingdom fractures into the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. Jonah is a prophet up here in the northern kingdom of Israel just before they are conquered by the Assyrians. The northern kingdom of Israel had a really really really hard time being obedient to God. And so God had to put his kids in time out and he uses the nation of Assyria and he moves them into their time out in captivity. While they're in captivity then you're going to find like the book of Daniel, the story of Esther, Nehemiah, Ezra. Some of those big Old Testament stories happen after this. But here Jonah is ministering. He is a prophet in the northern kingdom of Israel just before the fall to Assyria. Also he is the only prophet in the Bible, the only one to run from God's direction. Normally, and we saw that last week, normally and the word of the Lord came to fill in the blank and God said fill in the blank and his prophet goes uh-huh and they just go do it. Unfortunately, as we saw last week, Jonah falls into the depths of disobedience because he attempts to run from God to the ends of the earth to ignore God's call. This week we're going to pick it up. The title this morning's message is In the Depths of Distress. And we're actually going to start our reading in Jonah chapter 1 verse 17, the last verse of the first chapter. Interestingly, this verse is actually the beginning of chapter 2 in the Hebrew Bible. But in our English Bible, they put it at the end of chapter 1. Please remember that when the Bible books were written, there were no chapter and verse notations, right? Whoever wrote this book, they're not sitting there going, you know what Sharita, this would be a great place for chapter 2. Let's just leave them hanging, make them turn the page. Because there were no page turns. They were scrolls. So we're going to jump into the story here in Jonah chapter 1 verse 17. I'd like to read it to you and then I want to go back and sort of take a look at what's happening in this chapter. So here we go. This is Jonah chapter 1 starting in verse 17. And then we're going to read the 10 verses of chapter 2. Now the Lord provided a huge fish to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. From inside the fish, Jonah prayed to the Lord, his God. He said, in my distress, I called to the Lord and he answered me, from deep in the realm of the dead, I called for help and you listened to my cry. You hurled me into the depths, into the very heart of the seas and the currents swirled about me. All your waves and breakers swept over me. I said, I have been banished from your sight. Yet I will look again to your holy temple. The engulfing waters threatened me. The deep surrounded me. Seaweed was wrapped around my head. To the roots of the mountain, I sank down. The earth beneath barred me in forever. But you, Lord my God, brought my life up from the pit. When my life was ebbing away, I remembered you. Lord, my prayer rose to you, to your holy temple. Those who cling to worthless idols turn away from God's love for them. But I, shouts of grateful praise, will sacrifice to you what I have vowed. I will make good. I will say salvation comes from the Lord. And the Lord commanded the fish and it vomited Jonah onto dry land. Just take that in for a minute. So let's rewind back to chapter one, verse 17. Now I mentioned this briefly last week. There is a debate on what the proper way to interpret the book of Jonah is. Some people see the usage of the miraculous great fish as a reason that this entire book should be viewed as a parable or it should be viewed allegorically because like the Prodigal Son, that was a fictional story that Jesus created to teach us a lesson. Maybe Jonah should be viewed the same way. I'll say the same thing I said last week. I think that is less than true to the whole book of Jonah. First off, Jonah is a prophet mentioned in the book of first kings. Jesus himself in the New Testament mentions Jonah as an actual historical figure. In fact, he says, just as Jonah was in the belly of the whale for three days, so I will be in the belly of the earth. Jesus used the story of Jonah to prophesy his own resurrection. Now could Jesus have done that in an allegorical fashion? He could have, but Jesus doesn't refer to him in any sense as a story. Also, the book of Jonah opens with, and the word of the Lord came to Jonah. In the same way, the word of the Lord came to Isaiah, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, the word of the Lord came to Joel, came to Micah, and none of them are considered allegorical. So let's deal with verse 17 and ask the big question. Is God capable of miracles? Yes. In fact, remember last week? This is not the first miracle in the book. Nobody wants to jump to allegorical when God sent the storm. Nobody wanted to jump to allegorical when God controlled the lots that were in the the sailors to bring Jonah's disobedience out. It's not until we get to this moment with the fish that all of a sudden we have to appeal to a naturalistic or biological explanation. But we also don't have a problem. Hi, by the way. Hi. Good morning. How are you? Worship was great today, by the way. Thanks, babe. So I was thinking, and by the way, I am here today, not to preach because I don't do that. I see myself as a, you know how sports commentators? They can watch a game and they can talk about what's happening in the game. They know the game, but they don't necessarily have the skills to play. That's what we're doing here today. That's right. I'm gonna lay up the play and you're gonna tell everybody what I did wrong. I'm not gonna do that. But it was what I was gonna say is we have no problem discredit. I mean, no problem not discrediting the Gospels when Jesus raises somebody from the dead or like puts a ear back on a dude's head. Yeah. But the fish is too much. I don't know why the fish is the fish is the jump the shark moment. I know it doesn't make sense. All of a sudden, Fonzie jumps the shark and this whole book's gotta go. Well, we know that our God is miraculous God. He's a supernatural God and he's gonna have his way. However, however he designs that. So if it's a fish, it's a fish. So, so let me just answer the question directly that some of you are thinking. Is the fish a real fish? Yes, the fish is an actual real biological fish. Does that mean that we have to find a fish today that is capable of doing this in order for this miracle to be real? No. But. But I in my research this week did come across an article where a lobster fisherman from Cape Cod who was scuba diving finding lobsters was swallowed by a humpback whale and was inside the whale's mouth for, I want to say he said something like 60 to 90 seconds. And then the whale realized that he's not his normal dietary interests. And the whale spewed him out. You can, I kid you not, don't do it right now. But look it up on YouTube. You can see the man's interview on YouTube. And he said, I thought this is how I'm gonna go. I forget what the dude's name is. He said, this is how I died. I'm it. And the next thing I know, I was being hurled into the light. So the humpback whale grabs Mr. Scuba Diving Lobster Fisherman at the bottom and spat him out at the surface of the water. And that was 2000, I mean that was less than 10 years ago. But there another way? There was a female diver who was swallowed by a sperm whale head first down to her knees and held for a while. That was like until almost her oxygen ran out. Yes, and the whale actually broke both of her knees with its mouth. And then again, the whale spat her up at the surface, not below. So is it possible that there are animals alive today who can swallow humans? Could be. A humpback whale definitely could put you in its mouth. Biologists will debate whether the throat opening of the humpback whale is capable of swallowing a human. Do I care about that? No, I don't. Because you know why? You did not ask me to provide a naturalistic explanation of how God could control the storm. We just accept that in his sovereignty, he can do so. You did not ask me for a naturalistic explanation for how did God control the lots to reveal Jonah's disobedience. We accept that in his sovereignty, he can do so. I submit to you church this morning that there is no reason that this fish needs to be a naturalistic explanation. If the Bible contains miracles, just let it be a miracle, man. Doesn't that make sense? We don't discount the gospels. I mean, we don't discount the entire Bible. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Well, our whole faith is based on the fact that a God man raised himself from the dead. Right. So if we can accept the resurrection, Right. maybe we can accept that God, and I mean, God spoke to Balaam through an animal. He did. So the idea that God can't interject his sovereignty in animals is false. True. So I submit to you this morning that this is a real fish. I also submit to you that this fish could have been uniquely designed by God for this singular purpose, and it's the only one of its kind you have ever existed. Or God used an animal that was alive in Jonah's day that is not alive today that is also completely plausible and logically possible. Or three, God used something like a humpback whale that somehow had a mutation and its throat was larger than a current humpback whale. All or sperm whale humpback whales definitely got the mouth for it. So sperm whales, the only one capable. There we go. This is what it's like preaching in 2023. I just want everybody to notice that. It's not what I'm going to do. Bro, you got to be on your game. I'm going to Google it. Somebody sitting there fact checking you faster than you can spit it. Thank you, Dan. Look at that. So church, I submit to you that this is a miracle because we worship a God of miracles. I do not believe we have to discount the entire book because it contains a miracle when our entire faith... I mean, even Paul. I didn't finish reading in 1 Corinthians 15, but Melanie is completely right. Paul said if there's no resurrection, there's no Christianity. If there's not that miracle, nothing else counts. Nothing else matters. I'd also submit to you if God exists, miracles are necessarily possible. For those of you like apologetics, see me afterwards. I'll explain. So 17, now the Lord... Notice again the capital letters there, right? That means Yahweh, the covenantal name for God. The same God who caused the storm, the same God who revealed Jonah's disobedience is now the God who provides the miraculous fish. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish for 3 days and 3 nights. I also need to point out that in the Jewish telling of time, that does not mean you take 24 hours and multiply it by 3. That is not necessary. All it means is that Jonah was in the belly of the fish at some point on day 1, even if it was only for an hour, then all of day 2 and at some point in day 3. That is the Hebrew way of telling time. So for instance, oh, I don't know, Jesus went into the tomb Friday night. He was in the tomb for all of Saturday and then he was in the tomb Sunday morning before he rose. Do you see how that still is 3 days even though it's not a full 3 24-hour periods? That's not the right way to understand it. That's why Jesus used Jonah as a symbol of his prophetic resurrection. Jonah is in the belly of the fish for 3 days. And I just want to point out, Matt and I this morning were talking about how the movie Pinocchio kind of ruined this picture. Oh, yeah. Because when you see Pinocchio, Geppetto is in the belly of the whale, right? He's on a houseboat. He's making dinner. He's got friends hanging out with him, you know, instead of like literally entombed. Yes. And I think the entombed is a necessary factor to understand because what did we learn from chapter 1? That everyone thought Jonah was dead when he hit the water. Even the sailors were like, okay, God, you've clearly going to do what you're going to do. So don't judge me for doing what you say to do. Right. This is an uncomfortable position. Yes. And so when we get to verse 1, from inside the fish, Jonah prayed to the, notice again, covenantial name for God. Do you notice that God has still not forgot his covenant with his prophet even while his prophet is quote, quote, in the tomb? The water is death. Underneath death is entombed. And then we get to verse 2. He said, in my distress. I submit to you this morning, that word right there, distress, is the best key, the interpretive key to understanding this chapter. So every time you come to the scriptures, you want to have the setting, right? We are now in our historical setting. We know where we are, when we are. We know what is relationship with God is. But then within the text itself, where, what am I looking at? This is the opening of, and the rest of this chapter is really Jonah's prayer. I want you to notice that it begins and ends with God. God sent the fish. God told the fish, spit them out here. So it begins and ends with God, just like the whole book begins and ends with God. It's bracketed, but the action taking place now is Jonah. And he says, in my distress, I called to the Lord. That word distress in the original Hebrew means, in my anxiety, in my stress, in my place of restricted or cramped up. That sounds an awful lot like in the tomb of a sperm whale. Not Geppetto with his cast iron, cooking some grits, you know, talking to his friends. He's got a campfire going on. Like, I really, really like the Veggie Tales picture of this. But there were not multiple shipwrecks, right? This is not Davy Jones' locker on the inside of the fish. This is a tomb. He is cramped up. He is stressed. His body is responding in anxiety, in fear. I don't know if you can relate to that. But I'm just saying, like I know I have. There have been moments... Anybody ever feel the pressure? Right? You're living life. You're just going along. And all of a sudden, you wake up and realize, whoa, I'm in a vice. I can feel my... I can... Anxiety is on the tip of my tongue right now. I'm cramped. I'm pressed. I'm entombed in my fears. This is where Jonah is. And if you miss that, then you're going to completely misunderstand his prayer. So that's why I want you to see where the Lord has placed the character before we watch what he says. So verse 2, he said, in my distress, I called to the Lord. Capital letters. I called to the covenant God. And he answered me, from deep in the realm of the dead, I called for help. And you listened to my cry. So when exactly did Jonah call for help? I'm going to say, I think it's when he hit the water. I don't know. The seaweed wrapped around his head might catch me for a second. But I think if we're following the book correctly and the ocean is death, they knew they were killing him. As he starts sinking below the water, he's having the same reaction as the guy at the scuba. This is how I go right here. I disobeyed God. He told me to go to Nineveh. I ran to Tarshish. He sent a storm. God's going to drown me. This is it. He's not expecting a rescue. No, he's not. And to believe that Jonah is expecting the miraculous fish is to read back our perspective into the text. Don't do that. And I would say, too, when he was in the fish, does it feel like a big rescue either? Yes. And that's a great point. In my distress, he answered me, in the realm of the dead, I called for help. You listened to my cry. What did God do to rescue Jonah from drowning? Put him in a fish. He got etched. Put him in a fish. He got etched. It's called time out. No, I need you to see this. What is Jonah's rescue from drowning in the ocean? He done got etched by a fish. Does that feel like a rescue? No, it doesn't. It doesn't feel like a rescue. It feels like, oh, this is... So not only, Lord, have I disobeyed you to the point that I have to drown. I'm going to get eaten. Alive. But you can tell as he goes on, it kind of feels like he deserves it. I think so. I think he does. I just want you to see in verse 2 that he is thanking God for being eaten by a fish. Just let that sink in for a minute. We look back at the story of Jonah and we see God's divine, providential hand guiding Jonah by swallowing him in the fish because we get to read the end of the chapter that God spit him back out on dry land. Jonah can't know that the moment he got eaten. He can't. While he is a prophet, this prayer does not speak like he's prayed. I mean, it's the same thing with King David. Everybody loves the David and Goliath story, right? The little guy facing the giant. But did you read the story carefully? When he stands in front of King Saul and King Saul tries to give him his armor and he said, here, you've got to have my sword and my shield and my armor. And David goes, dude, I can't do that. And what is David's justification for facing Goliath? He said, in protecting my father's sheep, the Lord has rescued me from the claw of the bear and the teeth of the lion. I don't believe in any sense that that moment when David was protecting his sheep from the bear, he's standing there with the sling going, heavenly father, I thank you so much for this opportunity to learn how to save your sheep. Like, let's be real people. If you're trying to save your sheep, which is your livelihood, your food and stop your family from being destitute, and here comes a giant carnivore predator, it's going to kill you too. I just don't believe that we have to over spiritualize everything because when we do, we disconnect from the characters who are in the Bible. Jonah got eaten. We have to not to say that every character in the Bible is supposed to reflect on ourselves. We know the Bible is about God. It's not about the people in it. It's how God works with those people. Right. But you know, the idea that we sit around and when trouble and turmoil comes, Lord, thank you for this trouble. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Thank you for the opportunity for me to work through whatever this is. Yeah, we're all that holy for sure. Yeah. Yeah, every single person here, just so you know, you're all off the hook. The next time you're stressed, just understand that Pastor Bill and Melanie, we think you're so holy that you're automatically going to go, Lord, I thank you for this anxiety. That's great. Lord, I thank you for my fears. You're teaching me how to grow. Lord, I thank you for this stress. I thank you for this entombed death. Yeah, but what happens though, you're in there long enough. To get it right. And that's the response you start to have. Yes, but you got to- It's not as soon as it happens. But when you're in the pressure long enough and it's not ceasing, it's not easing, then that's when you turn. Well, and I think the reason for that is, I think God in his grace, keep in mind, the Bible says that he was in the belly of the whale for three days. The Bible doesn't say how long it took Jonah to pray. Or be thankful. Or be thankful. I mean, at first, he did not realize that the fish is his salvation. I wouldn't. If I'm swimming in the ocean and here comes a fish and it swallows me, I don't immediately go, Lord, where are you taking me today? Thank you for my free travel. Now you go, well- Right? Like, don't- Why not? Okay, Lord, I'm sorry I disobeyed you. Next time we'll stand and not sit to preach your word. I apologize. You know, this idea that the Bible characters know more than we do. We miss their humanity. I think Jonah gets swallowed by the whale. Look at verse three. Jonah knows that it was God who sent the storm, who revealed him through the lots, who ultimately hurled him into the depths. It is God who has placed him in this place of stress, of fear, and of anxiety. His disobedience. But God responds to his disobedience and doesn't let him get away with it. He's running, running, running, and God says, uh-uh, bro, I ain't got time for you running. I got a job for you to do. You hurled me into the depths, into the very heart of the seas. The currents swirled about me. Notice all your waves. All of your waves and breakers have swept over me. Have you ever felt like you were struggling to keep your head above water? And turned and said, Lord, is this storm you? Are you teaching? And I don't think that's our natural assumption. I think our natural assumption is... We got our first response. Oh, this is how I go. This is it right here. Yep, I'm fish food. Had too much sushi and now I get to turn the tables. Got it. I don't know that we always respond as spiritually as we read the Bible. We read the Bible and go, Jen, Jonah knew, right? He's a prophet. He knew he was just waiting. No, I think verse three shows us Jonah knows that God is behind the storm. Jonah knows that he's swirled him in verse four. I said, I have been banished from your sight. Jonah believes that God is killing him for disobedience. And then the back half of verse four, yet I will look again toward your holy temple. Jonah is in this cramped, entombed, crushing, smelly, stinky interior of this miraculous fish. And clearly, he's not saying that he can physically see the temple in Jerusalem because he's in the belly of this fish underwater. But he is praying and ultimately, I would argue, I think the holy temple mentioned in chapter four is not the physical temple in Jerusalem, but God's holy temple in his presence. I think because he's in the middle of this fish, the idea that he's speaking about the physical temple. No, I think he's about to see you. Yeah. We're about to meet face to face. I'm looking to your holy temple because I'm going to be there in like five seconds, right? So I'm looking towards the divine heavenly home of my creator, which apparently I'm going there in a hot second, and I look towards your holy temple. That word look towards after all of chapter ones going in the opposite direction to the ends of the earth. This is that moment where we watch his repentance. We watch his thoughts go, all right, Lord, you might have tossed me into the waves and the crushing depth and the swirling, but I will look toward your temple. I have to admit, I think I fail to do this more than I succeed at it. I think when I'm living my everyday life and we come across something that is stressful, I do not immediately turn to the holy spirit. I immediately turn to I'm going to get angry and I'm going to blow through this brick wall because I'm a doer. I trust in my ability to do stuff, to fix the problem instead of stopping to go, Lord, did you put that wall so I won't go that way? No, my natural reaction is wall must crush. That's all I do. That's all I do. And it takes a wall that I bang my head against enough till I get tired of banging my head. And then I go, oh, well, Lord, are you trying to tell me not go this way? Well, why didn't you just say that? I sent the wall. Right. I sent the wall. Maybe you could have just taken the wall was the sign don't go there. But I feel that way. I feel that way a lot. I'm not sure you're smiling. I'm pleading the fit. I am holding my tongue. You're bleeding. I think I'm bleeding. You're going to bite yourself. I will admit I fail at this. I fail at this all the time because I'm a mountain climber. I love challenges. So when there's a wall in front of me, I take it as a personal challenge to either climb the wall or destroy the wall. I don't stop and ask, Lord, are you telling me to stop going down this road? It is not part of my immediate human response. So if that's you this morning and you're not you find a wall and the first thing you want to do is climb it, go over it or go through it, you're my people. It's okay. We're both wrong. Understand that too. We can be wrong. Sometimes God's trying to say, Bill, if you could stop doing that, it would really make me happy. Bill, Bill, okay, fine. Bang your head a couple of times. I'll be here when you're done. And it's like God waits for me to get tired. He waits for me to get over myself and then go, oh Lord, that's what you said. Verse 5, you're engulfing waters. Notice again, or the engulfing waters threaten me. The deep water surrounded me. Seaweed has wrapped my head. I'm out. Seaweed on my feet freaks me out. Seaweed around my head. Forget it. Well, and I think this also speaks to how far he had sank in the water. Right. Right. So, the seaweed isn't like a floating kelp bed. It is not in the med. It's down. Well, he talks about being what? At the bottom, like where the... Well, we have... That's verse 6, right? The roots of the mountains. So, I think the seaweed in verse 5, the roots of the mountains in verse 6, I sank down and the earth barred me in forever. He is being entombed in Davy Jones locker. Yes. The seaweed is wrapped around his head. The roots of the mountains, that's a poetic way of saying... The bottom of the sea. The bottom of the sea, right? Where the mountains start from all the way at the bottom. And then he said, the earth has barred me in. He sees himself almost as in jail or entombed at the bottom of the ocean where the mountains start rising up, where the seaweed is wrapping and choking me. But you, Lord, my God. You, Lord, my God, brought my life up from the pit. In the midst of this crushing stress, anxiety, entombment, he is able to thank God for being eaten by a fish. I think the most important word in that whole verse is the word, but. I totally agree with you. But you. But God. But God. But God. The word we turn to. No. No. That's not what we do when we're stressed. No. We should. But I don't. I will totally admit to you, my wife is so much more spiritual than me. I am a fighter. I'm a practical person. Give me a problem and I'm going to blow it up and rebuild it into what I need it to be. I don't stop and go, but God. I just super hard headed. I barrel on through. And then she waits for me to bang my head against the wall enough times. To then we come, honey, do you think God is working in this? She's like, yeah, I figured that out two days ago. Just been waiting. Because if she were to try to correct me before my head is tired, she knows, no, I've got more energy. I got to keep banging. I'm going to make it. I'm going to make it through this wall come hell or high water. You just let me know when you don't. No, honey, I think that wall is not moving. Because I'm not the first to say, but God. As much as I would love to sit up here and admit to you as a pastor, I'm always super spiritual and my theology always rules my life. And our family and our marriage never, I can't. I'm not going to lie to you. I identify a lot more with Jonah in chapter two than I do in chapter one. My obedience factor is yes, Lord, go. And we get all the way to verse six. The roots of the mountains we sank down, but you, Lord, brought my life up from the pit. What I cannot wait to find out on my list. Anybody have a list of questions that you want to ask when you get to heaven? This is on my list. How long did it take Jonah to get to the but God moment? Right? How long did it take him to realize? Oh, I'm not dying. I'm not. Wait a minute. I'm not. I'm not being dissolved. I can still breathe. Like how long for those thoughts to start processing? Wait a minute. I can still breathe. I'm not being crushed. I'm not being digested. Is the Lord like is the Lord doing something like those moments where it's still it's quiet. You're still in the middle of being crushed, but all of a sudden your perspective transcends your feelings and you start looking at the big picture. I would love to know how long that took for Jonah. The scriptures don't say right. It's right in the middle of this big prayer. He's rescued from the depths of the ocean by getting eaten by a fish. I don't think that feels like a rescue. How many times has God brought a rescue in your life and you ignored it because you thought it was more punishment? Oh, this is how I go. Yeah, I'm not doing that. I'll stay here and bang my head against the wall. I don't need to lift when God's trying to pick you up and drive you around the wall. And I just I don't know, but there's a moment here in verse six. But you Lord brought my life up from the pit. That is you rescued me from death by the fish. The pit is the symbol of death. You rescued me from death by the fish. Verse seven, when my life was ebbing away, I remembered you, Lord. It's a shame you couldn't remember God at the beginning of verse one when he said, go preach to the Ninevites. No, I don't like them. I don't want to do that. And then we go through the entire disobedience factor. We get to seven. My life was ebbing away. I remembered you, Lord, and my prayer rose to you to your holy temple. I think verse seven is absolutely the heavenly temple because the prayer is rising to where God is. So seven is definitely God's holy temple. His life is ebbing away. He sees himself as about to meet his maker. Literally. I think it's very interesting how spiritual everybody can get when you think you're about to die. When you got nothing left, that's when we turn to Jesus. If I can fix it in my own strength, Lord, I'm going to do that first. Guilty. 100% totally guilty. God's got to let you run out of all your extra steam first. And then all of a sudden you go, okay, Lord, what do you want me to do here? My prayer rose to you and your holy temple. And then verse eight to me is the weirdest sentence in this whole chapter. Verse eight. Those who cling to worthless idols turn away from God's love for them. Now, scholars are divided on what this verse means. I'm going to lay up two choices for you and you can pick the one you want and leave the other behind. Jonah is either speaking about the Ninevites. Those who cling to worthless idols turn away from God's love for them. If that's the case, then verse nine, but I will, but I with shouts of grateful place will sacrifice to you. I have vowed I will make you good. I will say salvation comes to the Lord. Is Jonah bragging about himself? So if verse eight, those who cling to worthless idols turn away from God's love is him doubling down on those are evil sinners, but I'm your favorite kid. That would be eight and nine in that view. The other view is Jonah realizing he's been holding on to the worthless idol of his own prejudice. Those who cling to worthless idols. His prejudice is what caused him to flee from obeying God in one one, right? Or in one three or whatever it was. So if the worst list, if the worth less idol is Jonah and he's realizing, oh, it's me clinging to my own wants and desires that have led me here. My sin brought death to my life. Then verse nine means, but I will shout with grateful place will sacrifice to the Lord. What I have vowed, I will make good. I will say salvation comes from the Lord is almost him preaching to himself. I know my sin has brought me here. I know the consequences of my sin is death, but even in my death, Lord, you are salvation. So Mel, which one do you think it is? It's tough and I'll completely admit to you there's no wrong answer here. So about I read five or six different resources and they're divided. I don't know. I think. I think he's kind of almost returning to. Like, Lord, you know, I'm right, but I will, you know, for the sake of your call, I will bring salvation to, you know, these people. I think he's still stuck. You think he's still self-justifying his own prejudice. I'm just thinking about myself sometimes, and I'll I talk a good game in the first half, you know, and then when it gets to actually. You know, and then when it gets to actually. You know, doing the work of it. I'm like, well, you know, God, you know, I'll do it anyway, but you know, you know how I feel about it. I think I think that's possible. Okay, I could just be cynical, though. That's very possible, but I don't know. I think because we were talking about this again this morning and I was laying in bed this morning thinking about like. Bipolar Spiritualism. Oh, yeah, you know, there are some days where and I was just thinking I was honestly thinking about how I interact with my children, and there are some days when the Holy Spirit is working through me and I respond with kindness and grace and there's other days it's like he does not live inside me at all, and I say what I want to say and how I feel. And my relationship with the Lord didn't change, but my response in the circumstance did. So it's for me, I think and I think we're all that way. There are some days we are on the highest highs of, you know, of our relationship with God and we can walk through anything. We're like, Lord, you're the victor and send the fire and I'll walk through. I will walk through the flames. The next day, like, I don't even want to get out of bed today, you know, so I don't know. I think it could be either. It could be both. I just thought on those days where you're like, you're so spiritually strong and you're so excited. You're like, Lord, if I was Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, I'd have brought s'mores. Like that's how good I feel. The next day, I can't put pants on today. I know, like, oh God, I can't tie my shoes. I know, let's do. I just. That's how I feel. We're so weird. But thankfully. I just wonder what God thinks. He's like, okay, we're going to do that again. You know, like, I don't know. I don't know. But what I love about this story and after worship practice, a couple of us were standing here and we were talking about the overall outline of the book of Jonah. It's only four chapters. Chapter one is disobedient. Chapter two, he worships. Chapter three, he's obedient and chapter four, he's mean. Up, down, up, down. At least if nothing else, I don't feel bad that I struggle with that. You know, I don't feel bad that it's up and down and up and down because I can see that it's recorded in Holy Scripture that other humans have dealt with the same problem. So we get to verse eight. Now, I think the worthless idol is Jonah's self-prejudice. I think he's realizing by putting my prejudice above God's will, he's going to be able to do that. He's going to be able to do that. He's going to be able to do that. He's going to be able to do that. He's going to be able to do that. I believe that above God's will, I made an idol out of myself. And my worthless idol has led me to this place of you having to rescue me from death by putting me in the belly of this crushing tomb of this smelly fish. Verse nine, but I with shouts of grateful praise will sacrifice to you. I have that what I have vowed I will make good. I will say salvation comes from Lord. Bro, that preaches so good. Until you realize that you're not going to be able to do that. Until you remember that he's still being swallowed by a fish. Why he says this. Now, obviously, I do not believe that Jonah actually has pen and parchment inside the belly of the fish. In fact, I'll submit to you that Jonah may or may not be the author of the book. Because the book could be written about him versus from him. And it's still be holy scripture. So either way, all of this was written down after the fact. So Jonah's not actually making a sacrifice, right? This is not the moment where he's building the altar inside the giant whale. And the smoke's coming out. The whale's blowhole when he reads that's not happening. He's saying, but I with shouts of praise will sacrifice to you. In my heart, I will give you the sacrifice of praise. In the midst of my stress, in the midst of my fear, in the midst of my entombment, the crushing weight of my disobedience is upon me. And I will worship you. I think, like I told you, it's time out. I think a lot of times we don't allow ourselves the opportunity to step away. And focus in, Lord, what are you doing? Lord, what am I doing? Where, you know, is it something in my character? Is it something, is it a repented sin? Is it, you know, are you just trying to teach me something? Are you allowing me to go through this in order for someone else to see it? And it be a testimony to someone else? But I think if we don't give ourselves the opportunity to step away, sometimes worship doesn't come. And I would submit that the most intimate worship that happens is when you're in pressure. Yeah, the most intimate worship comes from the most desperate heart. Because it's, you're to a point where there's nothing else you can do. There is nothing Jonah can physically do to outrun God or to get out of the circumstance he's in. He's stuck. He's stuck. And if God uses us to let him go, he's going to be in the stress. So this idea that God only wants what is best for us emotionally, like God only wants my best life. I'm going to be rich and I'm going to be wealthy and I'm never going to be stressed. Well, he doesn't care about our happiness. He cares about our holiness. 100%. And not to say that he doesn't care. I mean, I would love for my child to always be happy and always have joy. But if I, I'm a bad parent if I don't discipline appropriately. And you're a bad parent if you only parent to drive happiness. Sure. And not build character, not drive holiness, not bring righteousness. What I think is amazing about chapter two is the end of verse nine. Notice he says here, I will say salvation comes from the Lord. That's exactly what he was supposed to say last chapter. And he refused because of his prejudice against the Assyrians. So God takes him from the boat, puts him in the ocean, takes him from the ocean, puts him in the belly of the fish. And Lisa, I would love to know how long it took him to bring him back to where he should have started in the first place. Salvation comes only from the Lord. God is allowing him in a microcosmic way to experience the salvation that he was supposed to go bring to the Ninevites last chapter. But isn't it amazing how through all of his disobedience, through all of his complaining, through all of his running from God, from everything that's happened to him, out of his utter disobedience and disrespect for what the Lord was calling him to do, the Lord being gracious and kind allows him the opportunity to be restored, brings him back to the surface. It says, okay, here, let's try again. Oh, the entire thing is a restart. Because remember, he started on land and the trip from where he lived to Nineveh was all on land. He chose to be disobedient to go to the ocean. So from the ocean, he gets to the dock, to the water, to the boat, to the water, to the fish, all to get back to the land. Look at chapter, verse 10 at the end. And the Lord commanded the fish and it vomited Jonah onto dry land. The end of chapter two is 100% the restart. Okay, Jonah, now go do what I told you to do the first time. And how much does that apply to us? There's no amount of running. There's no amount of separation that we try to put between ourselves. And what God wants for us, that in an instant, we can turn. It's not like we have to run back to find him again. It's just a turning. He's right there. He's always there, always waiting. And it's not like we have to do this big penance for whatever we've done in order to get back into God's grace and God's goodness. It is the moment that we repent, the moment that we say, God, I'm going to do what you call me to do. In that instant, he's as close as he's ever been. I think to your point about bipolar spiritualism, in the book of Psalms, David makes it clear, where can I go that you are not with me, right? From the heights to the depths, I can't outrun you. And that gives us comfort when we're hurting that we can never outrun God. But we don't apply the same logic when we're trying to outrun God. When I don't want to hear you, God, you're so far from me. No, like either he is totally omnipresent or he's not. You can't kind of have it both ways. Jonah starts the book by denying God and a disobedience running. And God says, nope, nope, nope. All right. And water and fish and that's my interpretation of the fish. Thank you. Jonah ends at the end of chapter two. Notice again, Lord, capital letters. God's covenant name for him and his prophet, because the word of the Lord came to Jonah. So the God covenant name for his covenant prophet spits him back out onto dry land at the end of chapter two. And now we basically get a restart. Chapter three kind of goes the way chapter one should have gone if we didn't have to deal with the disobedience the first time. So what's the takeaway? Here's what I think the takeaway is from chapter two. Jonah worshiped because he recognized the belly of the fish was God's rescue, not his punishment. The belly is a place to learn not to live. We don't want to live there, right? We don't want to build a home there. This is not the Geppetto moment where you're hanging out with your friends making coffee. The belly of the fish is a place of crushing stress and anxiety and pressure. And all of that pressure is designed to drive us to what God wants us to do. Not away from because keep in mind, if God wanted to kill Jonah, he could have just let him drown. But then he intervenes. And at first, I don't think the intervention felt like a rescue. I think it felt like it never does. No, like punishment. It feels like punishment at first. And it takes you a while to recognize that that which I thought was the doubling down of my punishment is in fact, God's divine hand guiding me out of my own disobedience. So my question to you this morning is where is your in the belly moment? Have you had one? Can you look back now, hindsight being 2020, and see how God was working through a negative circumstance to bring you closer to him or to put you where he needed you to be? Are you currently stressed, fear, anxiety, crushing pressure? And are you asking, Lord, is this you? Because if you're like me and you're just banging your head against that wall, you've got to stop. You've got to wake up. You've got to ask, Lord, is this you? But God, you've got to have the but God moment. God, are you doing this? And if you are, Lord, show me what you're so I had a Jonah moment this week and I'm just now realizing like while you were talking, I'm just now realizing this morning that it was really a Jonah moment. Okay. I had a woe is me moment. I'm sure no one knows what that feels like, but you get one of those moments where you just in a woe is me moment, you're looking at what's going on in your life and you are very displeased with the cards that you've been dealt in what's going on in this moment, in this season. And I'm like, Lord, I am doing everything I can to do everything I can for you. And I don't understand why X, Y and ABC are so difficult. And so normally when I get into these moments, I try to call a few of my pastor friends who've lived this life and who've lived these stresses and try to help me get perspective, right? So that I'm not just focused on my own feelings that my friends can give me wisdom. And I'll be darned if the Lord didn't let any one of them answer the phone. I called 3 different pastors who I love dearly. One of them in Honduras, the other one was in like Ecuador and the third one was out to lunch. Like no one would answer the phone. And I was like, okay, Lord, apparently you would like to talk to me about this issue. And you're not letting me talk to anybody else. And so I find a quiet place and I just I close the door and I close my eyes and I'm saying, okay, Lord. And I just tell them how I feel. I'm hurt. I'm anxious. I'm scared. I'm upset. I'm stressed. I'm all of these negative feelings. And I know that you as a human being, you felt these feelings. So you can see my feelings. You can know them. But Lord, you've allowed them and you've allowed me to feel them. And I don't understand what you're doing. And my confusion is frightening. And it was like a lightning bolt cut through the dark clouds of my heart. And he said, Bill, I'm letting you feel what I feel when you fail me. And I was like, oh, so it's like that. Okay. And then I mean, in a literally a lightning bolt level moment, all of my woe, all of my fear, all of my anxiety, all of my stress, all of these negative emotions that I'm feeling. The Lord was like, Bill, this is exactly how I feel when you fail me, when you disappoint me. Now, God doesn't feel fear the way that I do. But it was I'm living my own parable. God taught me something through my own stress, through my own anxiety. But I tried to get I tried to talk to everybody else before God about it. Right? I tried to get wisdom. I tried to get counsel. I tried to do all these things before I just tried to pray about it. And all of a sudden, like you go to the creator and all of a sudden, he's like, yeah, you go straight to the source. And all of a sudden, God had something to teach me through my own life that I would not have learned had I sought wisdom and counsel or anything else. And I'm just now realizing as we're sitting here that I just lived this in the belly moment, like in the last 7 days. So I want to tell you to pay attention because I believe that God is still living inactive. Amen. I believe that he's still working in our lives. I also believe that none of us are perfect. Thank you. Welcome to church. You're not perfect either. And I believe because none of us are perfect that God is still working on all of us. So I believe there's going to come a moment, whether you're in it right now, whether you're about to get in it. Listen, if you're living in disobedience, trust me, the fish is coming. You know what I'm saying? Like if you're living in disobedience, God's going to give you some line, right? He let Jonah get on the boat. He let the boat leave the dock. And then all of a sudden, set the storm. And the storm leads to the water and the water leads to the belly. And then the belly leads to the real transformation that God wished his servant would have had in chapter 1 and we could have foregone the entire storm. We wouldn't have wrecked those sailors' lives if we had just been obedient the first time. So where's your obedience today? So where's your obedience today? Are you in the middle of that belly moment where there is all kinds of stress crossing down on you? If you are, you need to tell me about it. We need to talk about it. We need to pray and we need the Holy Spirit to show us what is God doing. Because I will tell you this, you will never outrun the spirit of the living God. I can't. Jonah can't. We can't. So what is God doing in your life? And how are you responding to that? That's where I want to leave this today. The belly is not a place or the belly is a place to learn. Don't live there. If you're in stress, ask God what he's doing. Learn the lesson and move on, man. Let's get back to sunny skies. Let's get back to walking on dry land and not the instability and insecurity of the waving tossing ocean.