Welcome to catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for joining us today for being a part of our service Good morning to all of you who joined us on Facebook and are being a part of our service virtually Thank you for worshiping with us. Welcome to catalyst. So here at catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change in Christ life change in Christ and those last two words are arguably some of the most important Because we don't want to just transform our lives through habits even though habits are good We don't want to just transform our lives through the power of our own Self-determination and will although that is also not bad. We want to transform our lives to be more like Jesus Now we're returning to our sermon series about the book of Jonah So if you brought your Bibles, you can turn or tap with me to the book of Jonah Eric I have a small ring in like the upper part of my mic. Can you turn my mic down just a hair? I'm gonna give you the key thought that is sort of wrapping all of these messages together So the key thought is the book of Jonah reminds us God loves the disobedience The book of Jonah reminds us that God loves the disobedient and and don't mistake it There's a lot of disobedience to go around, you know I mean there just is me you Jonah the Ninevites that the sailors There's a lot of disobedience going on in the book But the primary thing that we should remember is that God loves the disobedient The title of this morning's message is in the depth of second chances So if you'll turn with me to the book of Jonah chapter 3 Chapter 3 is only 10 verses, but we're going to get a portrait of what should have been right what should have been so If you've missed the last two weeks, let me give you the background here So the book of Jonah is about a servant of God The book opens and the word of the Lord came to Jonah So he is absolutely a prophet God tells him to go do stuff and he says no I don't want to and instead of obeying God and going the right direction he literally tries to go to the ends of the earth in the wrong direction and God says no God interrupts his running away and interrupts his disobedience with a storm ultimately leading him into the ocean last week We discussed the miraculous fish ultimately leading him back to dry land and here as we begin reading chapter 3 This is the chapter of second chances And I don't know about you But it makes me feel good to see a passage where God gives second chances Because there's been plenty of times in my life that I've needed a second chance now that also comes with a warning Not every biblical character got a second chance, right? Moses didn't get a second chance after he struck the rock Let's see who else didn't get a second chance Saul Saul didn't get a second chance to be king the Spirit of God left Saul and anointed David So I don't want to communicate to you that God always gives second chances because sometimes God says no No, you messed up. You have to experience the consequences of your actions But today we're gonna watch God's grace play out and more than one person is gonna see the second chance love of God So let's first read chapter 3 will first read it Then I want to go back through and I want to talk about What this chapter means as far as in the realm of the whole book and then also how do we apply that to our lives today? So Jonah chapter 3 starting and reading in verse 1 then Probably the biggest word in the whole book then the word of the Lord came to Jonah a second time Go to the great city of Nineveh and proclaim to it the message. I give you Jonah obeyed the word of the Lord and went to Nineveh Now Nineveh was a very large city It took three days to go through it Jonah began by going a day's journey into the city proclaiming 40 more days and Nineveh will be overthrown The Ninevites believed God a Fast was proclaimed and all of them from the greatest to the least put on sackcloth verse 6 When Jonah's warning reached the king of Nineveh He rose from his throne took off his royal robes covered himself with sackcloth and sat down in the dust This is the proclamation he issued in Nineveh By the decree of the king and his nobles do not let people or animals herds or flocks Taste anything do not let them eat or drink But let people and animals be covered with sackcloth Let everyone call urgently on God let them give up their evil ways and their violence who knows God may yet relent and with compassion turn his fierce anger so that we will not perish in verse 10 when God saw what they did and How they turned from their evil ways He relented and he did not bring on them the destruction he had threatened Right like don't you just wish That we didn't have to go through chapters one and two that we could just start here Right couldn't we just start with and the word of the Lord came to Jonah and he said yes, sir And then poof we watched this miracle How many let me say it this way? I feel like I've had a lot of chapter one and twos in my lifetime You know I'm saying I feel like if we were all if we were all super perfect right Kim if we were all Everything God wanted us to be all day long. We were all GI Joe in the faith We would never have a chapter one and two But because at least in my experience, and I'll just I'm not gonna I'm not gonna throw anybody else under the bus I've I've made some failures if I'm the only person who's made some failures. That's okay But I know I've made some failures And I've had some chapter one and two moments and God in his grace in his love in his mercy Allowed me to have a chapter three He didn't just cut me loose at the end of chapter two and say well there you go you're done We'll get somebody else to do your job bill. Sorry about that So was as we go back here, and we start at the beginning of chapter one don't forget the context now Let's go back and and remind ourselves What is the setting in which this book takes place? So the setting Jonah is a prophet in the northern Kingdom of Israel During the reign of Jeroboam the second which is about 800 to 750 BC So we are 800 to 750 years before the events of the New Testament if you remember the Old Testament history God makes stuff then there's a fall Then there's the rest of the book of Genesis God calls him in name Abraham They move into Egypt bad stuff happens. He calls a guy named Moses. They move out of Egypt more bad stuff happens He calls a guy named Joshua They move into Canaan more bad stuff happens the children of Israel finally go We want a king like all the other kids have and then they get a king who is the first king of the United Monarchy of Israel? Saul followed by David followed by Solomon after Solomon God's people can no longer get along they have a civil war and that civil war fractures God's kingdom into two pieces The northern Kingdom was called Israel and for bonus points the southern Kingdom was called Judah that's right 10 of the 12 tribes are up here two of the 12 tribes are down here if You if you understand that one piece of Old Testament history the rest of the Old Testament will totally make sense to you Because then you wonder why is Israel going to war with Judah is because God's people couldn't figure out how to get along and Their civil war fractured their country in two Big surprise right even though we're called by God. We still don't know how to get along. I mean that was for somebody I get it So Here at this moment the northern Kingdom of Israel the top ten tribes the ones up north they have a really hard time living in obedience and God is about to send the Assyrians and carry them off into captivity Jonah's ministry right here Happens 50 years before that captivity just to put it in perspective for you So Jonah is a prophet in the northern Kingdom of Israel He is also the only prophet in the Bible who gets called to do something and says now the only one Everybody right everybody else and the word of the Lord came to bill. Yes, sir. The word of the Lord came to Jonah God I don't like them Yeah, can we have another one like can we roll the dice again like just understand that that's the person we're dealing with right here And when we get to chapter 3 in verse 1 and the word of the Lord came to Jonah Turn back to chapter 1 verse 1 you're gonna notice the same exact Phraseology that's not oh, that's not on accident. That's intentional remember We're reading the book that's inspired by the Holy Spirit we talked about the fact in week 1 we talked about the fact that we should probably be reading this as Prophetic history. It's not allegory Jonah is not a parable and the fish was is the fish could be interpreted as a miraculous fish I don't need a Naturalistic explanation to explain God doing miracles because it's not the only miracle in fact I'll give you a big secret the biggest miracle to happen in the entire book of Jonah happens in this chapter not last chapter Everybody gets distracted by the miraculous fish. You forgot the storm. You forgot the dice You forgot the waves and then we forget here chapter 3 the biggest thing happened So the word of the Lord came to Jonah a second time and that's why I believe you need to when we read this chapter You have to understand it as God offering a second chance now. Here's what's cool God not only offers a second chance to Jonah But through Jonah The second chance is coming to Nineveh now in chapter 1 verse 1 Dan if Jonah had dust just done his job Right if chapter 3 verse 1 was actually chapter 1 Jonah would not be experiencing a second chance But the Ninevites still would be see the Ninevites second chance hinged on Jonah Let me say that again, I feel like only two people heard me the Ninevites second chance hinged on Jonah Jonah was sent by God in chapter 1 verse 1 the word of the Lord came to Jonah go to the city of Nineveh Jonah had a mission Jonah had a God Jonah had a purpose and Jonah had a people to reach and through his own Selfishness his own prejudice his own racism. He decided I don't like them I would rather than be judged. I will run to the ends of the earth rather than teach these people about the love of God Nineveh is now experiencing the second chance It should have gotten in chapter 1 and we get to verse 2 go to the great city of Nineveh and Proclaim to it the message I give you notice again chapter 2 of I mean verse 2 of chapter 3 Mirrors verse 2 of chapter 1 right just flip back and take a look at it Go to the city of Nineveh and proclaim to it the message I give you So I got to point out something that I'll be perfectly honest with you Lisa makes zero sense to me But I'm gonna tell you it because I studied it and I know it's a fact and then maybe together we can put our collective wisdom together and figure this out in verse 2 Go to the great city of Nineveh and proclaim to it the message I give you In Hebrew in the original Hebrew that sentence is the same exact sentence as chapter 1 verse 2 But see in chapter 1 if you flip back in your Bibles and you look at chapter 1 verse 2 it reads Preach against it and in chapter 3 verse 2 it reads Proclaim to it in the Hebrew that verb preach proclaim present Gotel talk stuff right that would be my version go to Nineveh and talk stuff about me. Yes, sir. I got that in The Hebrew that sentence is 100% the same Why the English translators chose to translate it differently? I can't tell you other than there's one stark difference between chapter 3 and chapter 1 and that is in chapter 1 When God tells his servant hey go preach against that city in chapter 1 it includes the detail Because it's depravity. It's sin is great chapter 3 leaves that detail out Go proclaim to it go preach to it because there be sinners and Then we get to chapter 3 God doesn't have to repeat the reason for the instruction I think probably in my mind, okay The people who are translating who decided to switch it around Change the Apparently our parents Because I don't know how many times I have given my child a Directive yep, and then I feel like okay Do I need to talk into your good ear and then I repeat it again I Might not give you the reason the first time because already said it once yeah now it's an obedience problem right now It's an obedience problem. Yep, so I'm gonna go ahead and give you my directive again probably a little more Forcefully than I had the first time But my plans haven't changed and my reasoning and my reasoning hasn't changed, but you heard me the first time You know why and now maybe after we've gone through all we've gone through in chapter 1 and 2 you could just shut up and Do your job? That's right, right Jonah. Just go obey. That's right So when we get to verse 2 go to the great city of Nineveh reclaimed the message I give you I just want you to know that in the Hebrew that sentence is the same structure as chapter 1 verse 2 God's love for Nineveh his desire to see them saved has not changed You know what's changed? His servants disobedience Has been taken out to dry and now Jonah's back and Jonah's going all right Yes, Lord. I'm gonna go do so in verse 3 This is where chapter 1 and chapter 3 are wildly different right and Jonah obeyed the word of the Lord everybody give Jonah a hand Right Kim, that's what should have chapter 1 should have been yeah, and Jonah obeyed the word of the Lord and went to Nineveh Now Nineveh was a very large city it took three days to go through it So now let's let's put our historian hats back on for a minute. There's something I need you to know about verse 3 verse 3 Believe it or not verse 3 right here is one of the biggest reasons that Scholars try to argue that the entire book of Jonah should be allegorical They actually don't hinge on the fish They hinge on this verse right here, and it says Nineveh was a very large city It took three days to go through it well we know roundabout when we're talking about we're 800 to 750 BC Historians know the size of the city at that time Right, that's a that's an extra biblical detail that we can learn from history We don't need to throw out everything that's outside the Bible it can help illumine and educate our understanding of the Bible So your your ancient history your ancient Near Eastern historians They want us to discount the entire book of Jonah off of this verse right here that says it was a very large city It took three days to go through it because at this time the city of Nineveh circumference its circle Wasn't big enough that it three days to walk all the way from one side to the other side So here's where I think a little bit of common sense can come into play right Do you believe so the verse doesn't actually say it took three days to cross? Right it doesn't say that it doesn't say it took them three days to walk across the city It took him three days to what? To go through the city so number one those scholars who want us to believe that the Bible is being undescriptive They're making an interpretation over what that verse says and then choosing the interpretation that disagrees with their knowledge The body is it though that there are people who are paid Daily big dough to discredit the Word of God. Yes That's what I mean that is their job is to go in and find every little Minute detail everything that could possibly go wrong to say ha ha we got you however It's been how many years and the Word of God still stands strong still says firm and there's nothing they can do To discredit it actually in so there was a book that I had to read in our master's program That was biblical archaeology and so in my apologetics program was biblical archaeology. I can tell you assuredly There has not been a single archaeological discovery ever made in the history of mankind That has contradicted the Word of God So I'll give you the best-known example in the in the Gospel of John the Gospel of John mentions a place in Jerusalem Called Solomon's porch that had seven covered porticoes in it, right? So it mentions this place where there were seven covered porticoes and then Jesus did some ministry there for years and years and years Solomon's porch was used by critical scholars as a point to say listen We have no external biblical archaeological evidence that this place that your Bible claims to exist has ever existed So therefore it's false First off that's not a logical argument because the absence of evidence isn't the evidence of absence So just because you have no proof it weren't there doesn't mean that it weren't there It just means that you won't believe the Bible without external proof. That's what that really means, right? What it means is you won't believe anything the Word of God says if you can't validate it from outside the Word of God Which means you're already coming to the text with skepticism But then I believe it was the late 70s They discovered Solomon's porch. They discovered the covered porticoes and they counted them and there were exactly seven and That's just one one minor detail that I happen to remember from that whole class In the news I want to say two or three months ago They discovered a piece of writing because there has never been any archaeological evidence David for the kingdom of David That's right David being the king of Israel and they just found this Scroll or whatever it was a shard. Yes that talked about the kingdom of David. Yes Yep, talked about there being a war between I think was it Jeroboam? I Mean could it preach is good And the kingdom of David yes, it's the first time in history they've seen a Mention of the kingdom of our David being king. And so now that's come into question Oh, well, maybe there wasn't a king. Yeah, maybe there was a historical David, right? We're still not gonna call it the biblical David, but we'll call the historical David So obviously since we are all sitting here in a church of Jesus Christ, we accept that the Bible is the Word of God But here's what I need you to know the Bible doesn't have to be the Word of God to be historically accurate It is historically accurate and it is the Word of God, right? One does not differentiate the other but here in this instance Critical scholars have tried to say that well Nineveh wasn't that big but where you and I sit right now If you were to ask somebody hey, where y'all at? Oh, you know, we're like the Wilmington area But I know because of the police having to come to the church that we are outside the official City of Wilmington barrier by like a scotch and a half, right? When like the last time we had to speak when I last time I had to speak to the police They had they had called and left it actually was Tyler, right? So they had called you'd talk to an officer They had a crime that had happened on the street They saw that our cameras faced the street and they wanted to know if we could do something And they wanted to know if we could give them some footage and I was like, yes, sir Just tell me the block of time my wife and I'll we watch crew time documentaries So it was like having our own little TV show at home. We pull up the cameras Well when I call When I called Newcastle County and I gave them the church's address they said oh, that's not our jurisdiction you need this and I said No, sir. I promise you it is we had a incident happen last Easter. They had to come to our church I promise you this is your jurisdiction if you could just look it up. I want to help you with what you've asked so We're not in the city of Wilmington proper But Wilmington could still clearly describe where we are at So there's two different ways to interpret this verse that don't mean you have to all of a sudden believe that the Bible's not true Number one the text doesn't say that he had to walk all the way across it like, you know a diameter It just says it took him a while to get through it if he stopped at every major Marketplace along the way in the city to preach to as many people as possible that totally makes sense especially for the mission also Just like in the New Testament during the Jewish festivals The city of Jerusalem's width would extend out into the countryside because so many people would go there Then all of a sudden it was Jerusalem not Jerusalem proper, but the metropolitan Jerusalem area We have that in Florida a lot we used to live near the city of Orlando We didn't live in the city of Orlando limits But anybody who wanted to know where we were from if we just told them Orlando they all of a sudden knew the general Area we were talking about so for all of those reasons I think we should accept verse 3 as not only historically accurate but still biblically inspired Nineveh was a very large city Here's what's super hilarious about that word very large city it literally in the Hebrew means it was a great city To God or a great city in God's perspective an entire city of Pagans was great was important in God's perspective So when we're looking at the whole story that Jonah why is the city of Nineveh? important in God's perspective I Would offer you today that after everything God has gone through to give Jonah the second chance to make sure that Nineveh gets the second chance God knows judgment for sin is right around the corner and The souls who are in that city were important enough to give him one last chance well the field was ready The field was ready for harvest right and so a field that is ready for for picking is important is important and valuable Yep So then we get to verse 4 so now we've dealt with the critical problem with verse 3 verse 4 Jonah began By going a day's journey into the city proclaiming 40 more days and Nineveh will be overthrown that one sentence is the only thing That the book records Jonah saying to the Ninevites Now you got to ask yourself a question Rick is he is he dropping a one-sentence sermon or? Is it that this one sentence is the summation of His preaching ministry in Nineveh I submit to you this morning that the latter is more accurate that 40 more days and Nineveh will be overthrown is Absolutely the main point the main thesis of what Jonah came to Nineveh to deliver them y'all Judgment is coming. I need you to hear me now because of the way the Ninevites respond I would argue That unless you repent those three little words right they had to be a part of Jonah's preaching ministry Right. I just think that unless you repent is sort of almost understood Based on the way we watch this chapter happen So Jonah began by going a day's journey into the city and then he delivers the message You all got 40 days to get right with God because he is tired of y'all's mess That's the new international bill translation He is tired of the mess that y'all got going on. He is tired of the sin He is tired of the evil. He is tired of the wickedness and Judgment is coming on the wicked y'all got 40 days to figure it out You're not 40 days clean this mess up and then in verse 5 the single greatest miracle in the entire book of Jonah the Ninevites believed God That four word sentence is actually the biggest miracle in the book And it's one that we just readily accept as believers as people who already know Jesus That sentence isn't hard for us. That sentence isn't challenging for us, but you've got to put yourself in the historical context we are 150 to 800 years before the events of the New Testament That means there's no Holy Spirit Except for on God's call on Jonah, you know, he shows up to a city that is wicked to the core they're just they're just yoloing it up finding every possible sin that they can get into and one man comes to preach and the entire city Everyone repents Everyone believes I Don't know about you but like I would like to preach like that Especially if I could do it one sentence, right just one like man who needs to study right? Who needs this who needs a who needs an entire 75 minute church service? It saved the entire city of Wilmington with one sentence wouldn't you do it? Yes, why because all of the souls who live in this city are loved by God. I Don't care if you're black or white I don't care if you're gay or straight Every human being is created and loved you created in the image of God and loved by the God whose image they bear Everyone and so in this moment chapter 5 the Ninevites believed God This is the hallelujah moment. This is what we want Everyone to turn and believe God and they believe God so much and I really love this over five a Fast was proclaimed all of them From the greatest to the least put on sackcloth The rest of verse 5 after the belief shows me that this wasn't just an emotional appeal, right? so when we talk about salvation, we have to make a distinction between remorse and repentance Right. So remorse That's what you just feel bad right so remorse is Don't raise your hand, right? So I'm gonna raise my hand, but you don't raise your hand This is not this is not the moment to call yourself out. Has anybody ever felt bad about their sin? Yeah, right. You give you all of a sudden realize ooh, I should not be doing that no mo right. That's remorse Remorse is feeling bad about something Repentance is not feeling bad repentance is the turning the changing of action if We just stopped at the Ninevites believed God Then we could be tempted to believe that they just had some emotional experience When we follow it up with a fast was proclaimed all of them now there's an action to follow along with that emotional response and so that's why this needs to be interpreted as true repentance for sin It's not just they felt bad, right? And I'm sure we've been there done that you felt bad about your sin The question is does feeling bad about your sin to make you stop doing it Right. Is there a change of action? Is there a turning away from that and towards God, right? So it's like two sides of a coin in my opinion faith and repentance have to come together Right because I turn towards God by turning away from sin. So they comes down to What does it mean to believe? Yes, I would argue That if you truly believed something You would live that way If I truly believed I could fly I'd be jumping off every rooftop and you know, whatever it may be But I mean truly when you talk about what you believe what you really believe You don't really believe it unless you're walking it unless you're living it unless you unless your actions show That that belief changes something about you It has to change the way you walk the way to talk the way you interact with your family and your children and your spouse And your co-workers. I mean truly Believing something Means it becomes part of your worldview Right and I think that's a super important distinction not just for Jonah but for us because If if faith was only what you thought about right? They call that the mental ascent. So when we talk about having faith in Jesus Jesus can just be a character in a book that you've read about and you've heard about and it's just all just here It's cerebral. It's mental. I know facts about first century Palestine. I know what Jesus is like in Luke I mean you can even know that Jesus died for your sins You can even believe that to be true. Well, I mean, let's talk about Bart Ehrman New Testament scholar at UNC Chapel Hill is an atheist and he probably knows more about the historical Jesus than every single person in this room and everyone Watching online all of us put together and yet He's still an atheist He knows more about New Testament documents and history and he is my favorite source when I'm talking about Jesus with a non-believer Because he is a qualified source to talk about New Testament history, but he's also an atheist So when Bart Ehrman says it is a 100% incontrovertible historical fact that the historical Jesus Lived in Palestine was crucified under Pontius Pilate If the atheist is gonna give that to me and That his belief his followers claimed he rose see Bart will still give me that one, too Doesn't mean he believes he rose because there's knowledge and then there's I'm gonna walk out that knowledge Which is for me faith has to be trust in action. It has to go from here. Yes to here To here to walking it out to here, right? And so when we see in verse 5 the Ninevites believed God That's their original mental acceptance of Jonah's message. Then a fast was proclaimed immediately It transferred through the heart into the into the hands and feet and now they're living out this new faith How many of us do that on the daily and this is again not the point to raise your hand but how many of us are Belief in Jesus our worship of him is the Savior Change anything about our life Monday to Saturday Like I get it believing in Jesus should change your Sunday morning. I'm down with that. I appreciate that But does your belief in Jesus change your Monday morning? Does it change your Wednesday nights? Does it change your Thursday mornings? Does it change your Friday nights your Saturday nights? That's when all of a sudden faiths really starts getting walked out That's what is happening in verse 5 a fast was proclaimed for all of them from the greatest to the least they put on sackcloth wearing sackcloth is an illustration of Repentance in this history at this time. It was one of the ways they Illustrated it's part of mourning. Yes, sin that you've committed that is totally right It is mourning and illustrating their sorrow Over the sin that they now recognize that they have then we get to verse 6 when Jonas warning reached the king of Nineveh The word king does not mean royalty here. It means highest rank and governing official in the area We could use the word mayor. We could use the word governor. We could use the word ruler We could use the word president So it's another reason critical scholars want to throw this book out is because at this point Nineveh wasn't the capital of Assyria It was a major province and so therefore it wasn't a king. Well that word king can just mean ruler It doesn't mean born royal the king Verse 6 he rose from his throne. He took off his royal robes He covered himself with sackcloth and he sat down in the dust Even the ruler of the city the highest ranking person in Nineveh Repents at Jonah's word seven. This is the proclamation he issued So now not only does the ruler of the city repent personally He repents professionally because he uses his professional influence his governmental influence over the city and he goes y'all we got a sit We got it. We got to do this now What is he doing in two steps? He's recognizing God's authority is greater than his Because if the whole city doesn't repent the whole city can still be destroyed He recognizes that God's authority is greater than his and he also recognizes that his responsibility and his authority answers to God It's you can totally recognize number one and not recognize number two. That's why I got to point him out separately In this verse where he uses the word proclamation He is exercising his governmental authority over the city To say y'all we got to repent together. We got in this mess together. We've done done all this sin together I would like our city to still be here 41 days from now We need to repent together by decree of the king and his nobles and then he goes through do not let people animals Turds flocks taste eat or drink everyone needs to wear sackcloth and then in verse 8. Here's the big part Let everyone urgently Or call urgently on God So whilst the king is legislating repentance from the top down each individual person is repenting from the bottom up and This is why the whole city gets saved This is why God relents for the destruction to come from sin. The wages of sin is death right God is promising to deal with this city and bring death because of their sin and You see grace offered in the form of faith here in in verse 8. Let everyone meaning on an individual basis call urgently on God and In the last sentence in verse 8 let them give up their evil ways and their violence This sentence is really important for our understanding of what's happening their evil ways Refers to the moral evil that exists in the heart of mankind So that word evil is that's the moral distinction of man my heart can come up with some messed up stuff their violence is The working out of evil in the actions of their lifestyle right, so there's the evil in the heart and Then there's the evil in the hand and the word and the deed and the relationship and the action If you just deal with this evil and don't have God deal with this evil This evil will keep bearing fruit over here. You've got to deal with the root which is the moral evil inside the heart Clearly The word of God wants us to see that in the repentance that the Ninevites have in responding to Jonah They are not just repenting of the things they did wrong They're repenting of being wrong of being morally evil in their hearts If you cut the root of the evil tree out of your heart You will stop bearing evil fruit if all you do is just trim the buds every time evil grows You're still letting evil take root in the heart this is important For where we live today The moral evil that humanity experiences in its heart That's what Jesus needs to heal That's what each and every one of us need to give over We need to give take the the barbed wire fences and the the guard attack dogs and the laser sharks down from our heart right Laser sharks for all my James Bond fans We need to stop defending the moral evil that exists in the heart of humanity and Start healing it and start experiencing the love of God Penetrate to the depth of human morality to where we desire That which is good. We turn from the darkness towards the light as the gospel John says because if you do that You'll fix the evil action problem if all you do is try to get people to stop doing evil actions You have not transformed the evil heart This is super important if we're gonna understand that We still have a job to do today that like Jonah. We still have a people to reach today So verse 8 lets us know that the two forms of evil the moral evil the action evil then verse 9 I love that verse 9 opens with who knows Right. He's like, yeah We're gonna give it a shot who knows God may yet relent with and with compassion turned from his fierce anger At the moment that the ruler of Nineveh Told all of his people they needed to repent He did not know God's loving character Not like Jonah did Jonah knew remember last chapter when Jonah's in the belly of the miraculous fish and he's going but I will still turn towards the temple I will still praise my God who is full of love and forgiveness Jonah knows God's love The Ninevites do not They are repenting in the hopes that Judgment will will not come. Well, they're also use. They're not they're not a godless society, right? They're also used to praying and I'm sure fasting and doing other things to other gods all kinds of sacrifice Right all kinds of crazy strange things So because they've never seen their God come through before. Yep. So now they're saying Who knows it might be it might be and I think that's a great point Because the society that we live in today 2023 here in America There's a lot of different gods on the table There's a lot of different competing religions competing worldviews competing choices and ideas I mean, it is like a sushi menu of religion when you walk through the marketplace of America So in a lot of ways, we're very similar to the original Ninevites because I mean I I spend a lot of time talking to people about other religions, obviously But there's a lot of choices out there and if they believe in the truth And if they believe if they if someone has put their faith in any number of gods or worldviews And then those gods and worldviews have let them down They're going to have less faith to believe that the one true god can come true on his word And yet in this moment the entire city of Nineveh Is ready to put it all on the line And step out and trust This god who sent Jonah I also wonder if he took a bath before he got there Like did brothers still smell like rotten fish? Like i'm saying that I don't know that might be testimony right there. I'm saying that's a pretty powerful testimony like whoa Fish smell it, you know, yeah like right here here this chunk right here that I got that out of his teeth. Yeah You know like when Jonah got there He's walking into a polytheistic society where all sorts of gods all sorts of competing ideas of what gods do and don't do And how loving they are or not and how vicious they are or not and he says listen Unless you repent the one true god Is going to kill you He's going to judge your sin Find you guilty and destroy your city And they respond who knows god may yet Relent, I don't know that he's going to relent but he might it is possible He might relent and turn from his fierce anger so that we will not perish The other thing that the ruler of Nineveh knows in verse 9 is he knows my sin is going to lead to my death Our collective sin Through judgment will lead to death I don't think he got that unless Jonah was preaching it You know what I mean? So that's why I think that sentence 40 days and Nineveh will be overthrown must be the summation of Jonah's preaching message Because I mean that's a paulian level theology right here that's 750 years even before Jesus let alone paul He may yet relent so that we will not perish There's faith There's repentance there's turning from sin turning towards god turning towards grace turning towards love And then we get to verse 10 when god saw When god saw What they did? And how they turned from their evil ways He relented and did not bring on them the destruction he breathed Here's what's great 750 years before Jesus god still responds to faith and repentance Yeah 800 years before the cross God responds to faith and repentance in a polytheistic pagan hedonistic non-covenant loving god-knowing society faith and repentance brought salvation because one guy Was given a second chance And that one second chance led to the salvation of an entire city And I know you know we were saying Nineveh Wilmington Nineveh only had one person To tell yeah only had one person who was sharing the truth about god How many do we have? in our own city We have everyone in this room Even if all we had all we had was even if all we had was this the only church in wilmington, right? With this one. We're the only group of christians in the entire state of delaware The impact of one man's obedience. There's got to be at least 50 70 people in this room. That's 50 to 70 times what jona had right? One man who was obedient knowing the full measure Of god's love and his punishment Yes, and it's so important like and and i'm gonna get on my soapbox for a minute because I can um Because it's 1103 and I can afford yeah, because I have the mic and I can afford to be on my soapbox our culture today Believes that god is loving But they make a mistake When you overextend god's love over all of his other character attributes You make a caricature Out of god, right? So caricatures are those comics where somebody draws a comic and they make one part of the comic Overly large, you know, sometimes it's the nose. Sometimes it's ears Right, right sometimes a super big head and a little big body you make a caricature of god When you get his character out of balance God is 100% Endlessly loving there are no ends to his love But he is also 100% Endlessly holy There is no unholiness in his love. He's also 100% endlessly righteous and endlessly just and endlessly merciful and you cannot take one Characteristic of the almighty god and say this characteristic is so important that he lacks his justice And here's why This is what happens if you take god's love out of context In your opinion Do mother theresa And hitler Deserve the same eternal rewards Just ask yourself, you don't have to say it out loud, but just think about it if if you had to choose Do you believe? That mother theresa and hitler deserve the same eternal rewards if you got to heaven and you saw That hitler was given all the same rewards as mother theresa or mother theresa was given all the same punishment that hitler received Would you find that fair Most people say no That's what happens if you try to take god's love to an extreme There's no more justice What do you say? To someone who has experienced a horribly violent crime And that person through some little small hole in the legal system got away with it. They didn't get punished in this life Guess what? You you may you may have minorly escaped the court of the united states of america But you will never escape the court of the living god That's god's justice People want to tell us that god judging sin is wrong. Your god is not loving for judging sin No, my god is so loving. He doesn't let it slide He doesn't let it be okay that people get hurt and don't have to answer for it He doesn't let it be okay that horrible atrocious things can be done by humans in this life And never receive punishment because there will be a judgment And that judgment is in his love Now, how do we balance? god's love With his justice here it is God is so loving It's like going to court being found guilty and then you have to go over and you have to pay the fines, right? So you you you go to court you're found guilty now. You got to pay your court costs You got to pay your court costs God can find you guilty and pay your bill at the same time Why because he is the only authority in the right position? to decide the payment And so since he's the guy up here making the making the decision Bill you are guilty Here you go. I will come down from the bench and I will pay your bill That's the god of the bible. We never escape his love. We never escape his justice In his mercy, he pays the bill that none of us could pay So the next time you say well your god is not loving. No, no, no, no, it's unloving to ignore justice You can tell that to every single person who's ever experienced being a victim. It is unloving to ignore justice God is so loving that he brings justice Through mercy and he brings mercy through justice and they go together Don't miss the beauty of god's love And don't make it into a caricature where god's nose is so big you can't see the rest of his face That's my that's my soapbox on god's love. I don't get it man. I've sat with people whose lives have been horribly fractured by violence by evil by atrocity Things that one human being should never do to another human being Should never do to another human being violently ugly stuff Where was god? That's the question Why did god let this happen? Where was he? And I can say number one he was suffering right along with you because he's omnipresent There's not a moment of your suffering. He did not experience himself He did not only witness but knew about ahead of time and still stood by you But number two that person never gets away with it That to me is the biggest promise of the bible no matter how much wrong someone has done to me They never escape the all-seeing eye of god's recorded justice But neither do we Let's let's let's put that shoe on the foot come on we never escape god's justice either That's why it's so important that we see That jona got a second chance to save the city well We all have God gives us chances Over and over and over and over again Because there is a commandment that he's given all of us. Yes He's told each and every one of us Go, yep Right go into all the world preach the gospel baptize teach The disobedience the church is living that right now We should be the ones in sackcloth 100 We should be the ones mourning our sin Because if you truly believed That people without the savior Would live forever separated from him again. It's the difference between understanding and belief I can understand it But if I believed it Would I let anyone outside my realm of influence? Not have the opportunity to know him, too And when we choose not to take that We are living in disobedience. We're the chapter one. We're chapter one 100 If you do not take the command to share the gospel and make disciples baptize and teach seriously You're still living jona chapter one and our disobedience causes death for others 100 We as a church Need to repent For not believing and for not just not believing for running For missing the opportunity to go the other direction to go out of the way, right to not share the gospel, right? Because here's what I know We live in an unrepented culture Just like ninava We live in a polytheistic culture just like ninava And we are each individually called To share the message of jesus Just like jona How many of you still live in chapter one How many of you live in chapter two where you haven't you haven't quite gone Okay, god, I will finally turn around. I will I will share the gospel with this person that you're putting in my life That was my bad. That was my sorry god. I apologize right there. Let me get back on track The only reason I have to just 100 agree with my wife I believe The only reason christians do not share the gospel Is they either don't believe in hell? Or they don't believe in jesus If you believe in jesus and you believe in hell, you don't let lost people die without jesus Period it's just like didn't you use the the the drowning? Yes lifesaver analogy Yes, if we're on a boat And we look out in the ocean and there are people about to drown and die and you have the life preserver To hold on to it and go someone's going to throw you their life preserver I'm going to pray for you. I'm going to pray that someone gets the call and jumps and reaches you When you're holding the life preserver yourself Unfortunately, once you're on the boat all you care about is being on the boat And then we argue you don't look at we argue about the color of the boat We argue what kind of music they should play on the boat We argue about all this other crap when there are people out the boat that are drowning And we're all holding a lifesaver. Yeah Now I will be 100% honest with you if you do not feel adequately prepared to share the gospel That one's on me We just did it a couple of Saturdays ago those who came to the how to share the gospel without preaching workshop If you are not ready to share the gospel right now when you walk out of this building That's your next step today. You better put that mess on your connect card I'll schedule another class and I'll teach you all over again But if you know how to share the gospel and you don't Then you're Jonah chapter one I And i'll be honest me personal bill I want to see revival not just in our church But in our city There are tons of people outside this this this church walls that need the love of god to transform their lives and save their eternities But revival is not going to start just because we can sit up here and be excited. It doesn't happen in here No revival sparks here and burns out there, right? Right when you leave the church you go into the mission field when you leave the church You're walking into our modern day Nineveh Revival is the church Revival is not a pep rally for god. No, no, it's not revival is souls changed Repentance marriage is changed families for families changed, right? Yeah, that's real revival and don't be wrong I do love a good worship service. Don't be wrong when the worship team is up here and they're cutting loose man You could feel the spirit. That's great. That's not revival revival Is when salvation breaks loose in an area and people repent of their sin are transformed By the power of the word of god and the spirit of god. That is true biblical revival Doesn't mean we don't enjoy restoration. We don't enjoy worship. There's a lot of things to be enjoyed about about christianity. Don't get me wrong But I feel like i'm looking at a room full of jonah's And the only question that's left in my heart is How many people can we get saved by next sunday? That's my question How many people can get saved by next sunday? How many people can we baptize seven days from right now? Because somebody's going to go out and be jonah chapter three instead of jonah's chapter one and two If you are not adequately prepared to leave here right now and share the gospel see me after church We'll we'll i'll find a time. We'll make it work if you are adequately prepared then bro. It's on you Somebody Is waiting for you To make it into the city and reach them So here's your takeaway. Here's how we're going to bring this in for a landing Like jonah we face a culture that is unrepentant We must not stop sharing the gospel with those who need it regardless of our feelings And we'll get a little bit more into the fields next week when we get to chapter four and we see how jonah responds to god's love in ninnabah But just remember the book started with jonah running the other way so if you're Running from sharing the gospel today, then you're jonah chapter one If things in your life are not going well because you're running from god, you're jonah chapter two Revival doesn't happen until jonah chapter three We all got to get on board with chapter three. We've all got to get on the same page Jesus himself said all authority has been given to me Therefore go make disciples Go baptize go teach them to obey all that I have commanded you and I will be with you Every day to the end of the age When you go out to make disciples you go out not only in the power but with the presence of jesus himself at your side That is our sacred mission For this city for this local little area right here Bring as many save as many as you can Save as many as you can every single day every single time And i'll also be perfectly honest like not to be overly preachy But for all of you who actually get the privilege of having a job that's not at church right A lot of times I talk to pastors and there's two kinds of pastors They're pastors who want to work at church And there are pastors who are biblocational meaning they have another job in in in conjunction with their ministry When you get a bunch of pastors together the biblocational guys always feel bad, right? They're like oh if I just had more time to work at the church I love working here But you know one thing that I struggle to do is meet people who don't know jesus Because three days out of the week it's me and miss donna and the rest of this building is empty You know and miss donna knows jesus. She loves jesus. We talk about jesus a lot We we talk about we talk about jesus a lot, but I do not get the opportunities that you get When you go talk to your neighbor when you're talking to your friends at work When you're out at the basketball tournaments and mowing your lawn in the summers Every single opportunity that you have to have a conversation Could lead to the gospel if you had a strategy If you were ready To play the game So every one of you who doesn't come to work here every day, which is basically everyone except for me and miss donna How many gospel opportunities do you walk by every day and miss? Because you're not looking because it might not be on your radar, right? So anthony you go to work and you're in your work brain. You're in your work mind I get that the gospel is probably not a part of your of your work paradigm Add it I'm not saying you work for the gospel. No, we carry the gospel wherever we go. We we carry the gospel in whatever we do That's what's important That's How jona chapter 3 comes to life? That's our life application for today Is tomorrow I want you to get up And I want you to tell yourself All right. Today's my chapter 3 Here's my second chance I'm going to go to work and i'm going to keep my eyes open and listen You might not find that person to share the gospel with on monday I'm a firm believer that you need to build relationships that you do the work of pre-evangelism first So that when you're ready to share that gospel message it's received with good soil, right?