Well, good morning. Good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you for joining us for worship today, whether you are here in the sanctuary or you're joining us online via our virtual service. Thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family. Now, here at Catalyst, we're about one thing, and that is loving people to... Life change in Christ. To life change in Christ. So if you're here this morning, I want you to know we love you. But we love you enough to tell you the truth, which is I hope that you do not remain the same tomorrow. I hope that day by day, inch by inch, as followers of Christ, we become more like him as we learn more about him. And one of the ways that we transform our lives is by studying his word together. And so that's what we're going to do this morning. We're going to be concluding our Love Like Jesus teaching series this morning with one final message. I entitled this one, Story Like Jesus. And I know that story is a noun and I'm using it as a verb, but I'm not good at the grammars and it's my sermon title, so you just got to go with me on that. So let me give you the key thought that connects this one to the previous messages. Here it is. The love of Jesus leaves behind lessons to learn and an example to follow. I know I've said this, I think each week, I'll say it again. I think if we could do nothing but mirror the love and compassion of Jesus, we'd be a whole lot more successful at evangelism. We'd be a whole lot more successful at leading people to know who he is, to learn what he taught and to follow him for who he was. I think one of the biggest challenges is learning to love and balancing that truth and compassion. Jesus was 100% truth and 100% compassion all day. And I think if you over accentuate one over the other, both are mistakes. You have some people who are so about truth that they forget to be compassionate. And you have some people who are so about compassion that they forget about things like truth. I challenge us this morning to be both. We need to be truthfully compassionate and compassionately truthful. So that's the last time you have to hear that introduction, I promise. I'm going to ask you to turn in your Bibles with me to John chapter 9. Now this is the gospel of John. Early on in my pastoral career, I said just turn to the book of John and I had a young man in my congregation who came up to me after service and he said, Pastor Bill, I think there's something wrong with my Bible. And I said, why is that? And he said, well, you told me to turn to John 17 and my book has four Johns and none of them have a 17. And so the gospel of John is the fourth book of the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. We're going to go to the ninth chapter. You can see there on your screen or if you're watching online at the bottom of the screen, we're going to be in John 9. We're going to use two different sections of John 9 and I'm going to explain why when we get there. While you're turning to John 9, let's review the big Bible story of how we got to this point. So here we go. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. He made a garden at a place called Eden and in that garden, he planted two human beings, Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve then disobeyed God's instructions. Sin enters the world. They are pushed out of the garden of Eden. You could fast forward a little while. Sin became rampant. God decided to give humanity a restart. He sent a flood. He chose a very special man, told him to build a boat that was called the Ark. That man's name is Noah. Noah and his wife and his three sons and their wives, they survived the flood. They begin to restart humanity. That's Genesis 9. Fast forward to Genesis 12. God selects one man and he tells him, I want you to move from Ur of the Chaldeans to the land that I will show you and I'm going to make a covenant with you. I'm going to be your God. You're going to be my people. I'm going to bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you. Look to the north, south, east and west. All this land, I'm going to give your descendants. That man's name was? Abraham. Abraham. Good job. And God changed his name to? Abraham. God told Abraham, you are going to have a son of promise. It's not going to be the son you already have. It's going to be a son that I give you. And the son of promise born to Abraham was? Isaac. And then Isaac's son of promise was? Jacob. And then Jacob had how many sons? Twelve. And those sons become the twelve tribes of Israel. So as we get to the end of the book of Genesis, Jacob and his family all moves into Egypt. They survive a famine, which is ultimately what drove them into Egypt. Their younger brother had been sent there 13 years ahead of time. And then they survive. And that's the end of Genesis. There's an awful lot that happens there. Then 400 years go by and the children of Israel now enslaved in the land of Egypt. They cry out to their God, we need a deliverer. Send us a rescuer. And God sends them a shepherd from the land of Minian who saw a burning bush and God told him to go back to Egypt. And that dude's name was? Moses. Whose brother's name was? Aaron. Whose sister's name was? Miriam. That's right. Moses and Aaron, they perform the miracles which we know as the ten plagues of Egypt. They part the Red Sea. They leave. Miriam leads the women of Israel in worshiping God. And that trio of two brothers and a sister lead God's people out of the nation of Egypt. And they should have gone right into the promised land. But unfortunately we have an obedience problem. And they wander in the wilderness for how many years? 40 years. After 40 years, God raises up a new leader to lead the nation of Israel into the land of Canaan. His name is? Joshua. That's right. Joshua leads them into the nation of Israel. They don't do a great job of moving in the way they're supposed to. And that starts the period of the judges. The key thing you need to know about the book of judges is everyone does right with their own eyes. Everybody did what they thought was right. It was very pluralistic, relativistic in its nature. You want to understand relativism? Go look at the book of judges. It totally is in there. And after a while, Israel gets jealous. They want something like all the other nations have. What does Israel want? They want a king. They ask God to give them a king. He goes, fine, I'm going to give you a king. But you need to understand. I was supposed to be your king and treat you right. You're going to get a human king. He's going to conscript your sons into military service. He's going to put your daughters into his harem and he's going to tax the mess out of you. But since that's what you asked for, I'm going to give it to you. And the first king of the Monarchy of Israel is? Saul. Followed by? David. Followed by? Solomon. Followed by? Civil War. There's only three, they only make it three kings. That's it. This isn't the Christmas story. This is the middle of the Old Testament. They only made it three kings. And then all of a sudden they fracture. And civil war. And the nation divides into the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. For bonus points, everyone but Casey. How many tribes make up the northern kingdom of Israel? Ten. And how many are left in the bottom? Two. Anybody can do the good math. 12 minus 10 is two. Good job. So, then they continue on as separate nations and they still can't obey God. They still struggle to live in a way that pleases Him. And He says, okay fine, now I'm going to have to put you in a time out. And God brings an external pagan nation to conquer the northern kingdom of Israel. What is the name of that pagan nation? Assyria. Assyria conquers the northern kingdom of Israel. That's like 722 BC if my memory serves correct. Then they go off into captivity. But the southern kingdom of Judah still is around for another like hundred and something years. Still 586 BC. While they're in captivity, who defeats Assyria? Babylon defeats Assyria. Then Babylon marches down and defeats Judah. And they carry off. That's where the book of Daniel begins. Daniel and his cohorts are carried off into the land of Babylon. And then they're in captivity for a full 70 years. The entire nation is given a time out from their own homeland. Then while they're in captivity, Babylon falls to another pagan nation. That is Persia. Once Persia takes over, the lead king of Persia at the time says, listen, I don't need to keep everybody from their ancestral homelands. If you want to go home, you can go home. Que Ezra, Que Nehemiah. Esther happens during that time period. So they come back into the land. They start rebuilding the land. There's Hezekiah, right, where they're building their houses but not the temple. All of that happens there. They finally move back into land. They get the temple restarted. They get everything restarted. And then there's crickets from God. How many years of silence from the end of the Old Testament to the beginning of the New Testament? 400 years. That's right. For 400 years, God doesn't say anything to his people. There's no new prophets. There's no new scriptures. And then God breaks his silence by sending an angelic messenger whose name is Gabriel to the temple to speak to a priest who's ministering before the Lord. He promises that priest, you're going to have a very special son. The name of the priest in the temple who first heard God break his silence's name is Zechariah. His promised son is named John the Baptist. He's the forerunner of the Messiah. After God sends that angelic messenger, he sends another angelic messenger to speak to a young woman named Mary and promises that she too will have a very special son who will be the promised Messiah of the Jewish people. And the name of Mary's son is? See everybody gets that one. That's good. All right. Then Jesus is born. That's the Nativity story, the beginning of the Gospels. Then Jesus at 12, he's in the temple about his father's business. Fast forward to 30, he gets baptized. The Holy Spirit descends upon him like a dove and then his ministry begins right at about the age of 30. And that's where we're at in the story. If we didn't do that every single week, you could get tempted to myopically only look at this one part of the Bible and not realize that it's all connected and not realize that what God's doing in the New Testament echoes through things he's already done in the Old Testament and promises that he made in the Old Testament, find the fulfillment in the New Testament. I also just want to point out if this is your first Sunday, I did not expect you to get all of those things right. But we've been doing that little story for like two years and just each week we just review and we review and then everybody starts to have a framework for when you approach the Bible. Here's how it all fits together. So now we are in the earthly ministry of Jesus. Jesus is born at or about, I'm going to go with 4 BC. For what I've been able to study, Jesus is born at or about.