Welcome to catalyst my name is Bill Thank you so much for being here and being a part of our service whether you are Physically here in our sanctuary or you are joining us online virtually Thank you for being a part of the catalyst family now here at catalysts we're about one thing and that is loving people to To life change in Christ and those four words really encompass two basic ideas number one that every day every Christian Can change their life to be more like Jesus and the second is he is the focal point of our change He's the north that we point to we want to change to be like Jesus In one of the ways in which we do that is by studying the scriptures together And especially I'm gonna start a brand new series this morning entitled love like Jesus I think there's probably no better example of how we should love our fellow man than the Savior when he walked the earth So for the next few weeks We're going to be looking at the person of Jesus in his earthly ministry on earth dealing with individuals dealing with specific conversations face to face with real-life human beings and Seeing how the love of Jesus played out relationally So if you have your Bibles, I'm gonna invite you to turn or tap with me to the gospel of Mark So it's the second book in the New Testament Matthew mark. We're gonna go to chapter 10 mark chapter 10 While you're tapping and turning there Let's go over the big Bible story so we can review how we got to mark ready So here we go in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth into the garden at Eden he placed two human beings Adam and Eve Adam and Eve ultimately disobeyed God thereby bringing sin and death into the world They get kicked out of the garden sin runs rampant God decides to send a flood and in order to redeem humanity from the flood. He asks a man named Noah to build an ark Noah is on board with his three sons and all of their wives So there are eight human beings on the ark when the flood is over humanity Rebegins and then a few generations later God makes a very special covenant with a guy whose first name starts with an a his name is Abraham and his name got changed to Abraham that's right, and he says I'm gonna be your God and you're gonna be my people through through your descendants the entire world will be blessed I'm gonna give you this land to your descendants as a everlasting inheritance then God repeats the covenant promise to Abraham's son of promise who is Isaac that repeated again to Isaac's son of promise who is Jacob and then God changes Jacob's name to Israel and then he has 12 sons and so then begins we go from the family into the nation So at the end of the book of exit or the end of the book of Genesis Jacob and his whole family moves into Egypt They're then in Egypt for 400 years a Pharaoh who did not remember what the Jewish people and Joseph did for them He puts him in slavery and then they cry out to their God for a redeemer and God sends them a man named whose brother is Aaron whose sister is Miriam and Moses along with arian bring down the ten plagues Miriam leads the children of Israel and the women leading and worship on their way out Of Egypt and I wish it was so simple as they just did what they were supposed to do But humanity has humanity has an obedience problem and so they wander for the wilderness for how many years? 40 years in the wilderness till that old generation dies off and a new leader who actually studied underneath of Moses a new leader arises name starts with a j His name is Joshua Joshua leans the children of Israel across the Jordan River It actually parts and stands up on end just like the Red Sea did coming out of the Exodus the Jordan River stands up 26 miles of the Jordan River stopped so that they could cross into the promised land Then they move into the promised land and again I wish Dan I wish I could just tell you they did what they're supposed to do But they didn't so they go to the judges period where everybody does what's right in their own eyes And then all of a sudden they decide I Want to have something like all the other kids have Israel wanted a King the first king of the United Monarchy of Israel is Saul followed by David followed by Solomon and then what happens to the people of Israel? Civil war and that's the big pivot point in the Old Testament at after Solomon There is a civil war that fractures the people of God they go into two different countries one is starts with an I Israel the other is Judah I have to make a correction a few weeks ago when we did this I got the geographic locations which ones in the north Israel which ones in the south? Judah forgive me I got that one wrong caught last time so then they go as two separate nations Still not being able to be obedient if you're noticing the theme right still not being able to be obedient and then finally God says Okay, I'm gonna have to put you in a timeout and then along comes What is the first pagan nation who defeats the northern kingdom of Israel? Assyria Assyria beats the nation of Israel carries them off into captivity, but then Assyria gets overtaken by Babylon and then Babylon comes in and destroys Judah and carries everybody away into exile and then they're defeated by Persia and in the Persian Empire lets the children of Israel come home, so they come home they begin to Rebuild their nation think Ezra think Nehemiah think Ultimately Hezekiah then to Malachi the end of the Old Testament ends the children of Israel had moved back into the promised land That was told to them all the way back in Genesis 12 But all of that obedience getting all the way down then there is a period of silence between the Old Testament and the New Testament How many years? 400 years God doesn't speak to his people the last thing he sends them is the prophet Malachi and he says I'm going to send you a Messiah and you'll know it's him because I'm totally gonna send a forerunner It's like the new international bill translation God's like and I'm totally gonna do this I'm gonna send a forerunner ahead so you'll know who it is then for 400 years. God doesn't speak to his people There's no new prophets There's no new scripture and then God breaks the silence by sending an angelic messenger To the temple to speak to the father of a very special prophet That father's name that starts with a Z is Zechariah Zechariah is the first human being to hear from God in over 400 years and God sends him an angel and he says listen Zech You're gonna have a very special son and he's gonna have to live according to a special set of rules because he's gonna be a Nazarene he's gonna be dedicated to me from birth Zechariah questions How this is going to be like most guys, huh? We're thinking about the how not about what God's doing And then after an angel speaks to Zechariah an angel appears to a young woman pledged to be married and her name is Mary and her son's name is Jesus and that's where we get in the big Bible story all of that leads us to this moment Jesus is born from Mary rate raised in the father of Joseph the carpenter Ultimately he get we see he goes to the temple at 12 And then the next thing we see is he's baptized at age 30 and he begins his earthly ministry and it's during that period With all of that history leading up to it. That's where we jump into we're gonna read mark chapter 10 We're gonna start in verse 46 and read to 52. So it's only a few verses, but that's because this story In my opinion, I have to admit this has been one of my favorite Jesus stories since I was in youth group and like wow It was like a long time ago. That was like before iPhones y'all Right, I just have to say personally since I'm an old person I think youth group was way cooler when we didn't have cell phones That's just me. I great I get it young people. I'm old. I'm great. That's fine. So here we go Mark chapter 10 I want to read 46 to 52 and then I want to go back and sort of unpack this as we examine how jeez Oh, I completely forgot. Let me do the key thought. Sorry, Dino So here's the key thought that's gonna put all these messages together the love of Jesus leaves behind Lessons to learn and an example to follow I submit to you this morning There is no better example on planet Earth for how to love our fellow man Than Jesus himself when he walked in the Gospels. I just I submit that to you as a premise I believe that Jesus is the greatest example of how to love others that we ever have to follow So here we go mark chapter 10 starting in verse 46 Then they came to Jericho as Jesus and his disciples together with a large crowd were leaving the city a blind man Bartimaeus which means son of Timaeus was sitting by the roadside begging When he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth. He began to shout out Jesus son of David have mercy on me Many rebuked him and told him to be quiet, but he shouted all the more son of David have mercy on me Jesus stopped and he said call him So they called to the blind man cheer up get on your feet. He's calling you Throwing his cloak aside. He jumped to his feet and he came to Jesus What do you want me to do for you? Jesus asked him the blind man said Rabbi I want to see Go said Jesus your faith has healed you Immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus along the road Super short super quick super beautiful moment where Jesus decided to get personal in the middle of a Noisy ruckus II crowd they were traveling. This is one of those on-the-way kind of stories This is not a destination like John chapter 3 when Jesus is having the upper the rooftop discourse with Nicodemus, right? He's sitting and they're eating and relaxing. This one is in the middle of traveling. So let's go back verse 46 Then they came to Jericho, so here's what I need you to understand By placing the story in Jericho, obviously we don't live in the first century But Mark was likely the first gospel written probably. I mean the earliest dates I've seen for marker in the late 40s to early 50s max Everyone would have known where this was in as much as I said, hey, you know me and Dan and Liz were traveling through downtown Wilmington like you would have immediately Place this in an actual setting the New Testament city of Jericho is about Two miles to the south of the Old Testament city of Jericho that Joshua would have originally fought at so same region So if you remember to know your New Testament geography any of you who are actually physically taking notes You can draw what I'm about to tell you to draw So I want you to draw a snowman three circles, right? One two three stacked a snowman and then next to the snowman. I want you to draw a barbell So a small circle with a line and another small circle if you can remember this simple picture a snowman Standing next to a barbell you can remember everything you need to know about New Testament geography. Okay, I know that sounds really weird But I'm ADHD so you have to follow me and it'll make sense when we get to the end So the snowman the three circles represent the three countries in the New Testament. So the top up here, that's Galilee So Nazareth is up here. This is where Jesus was born This is where Peter James John Andrew all that bundles fishermen they're all from up here then in the middle that Samaria The Jews don't like Samaria. So they usually go around it and in the bottom is Israel. That's where Jerusalem is That's where Bethany is it's where like Lazarus was raised from the grave. That's where Mary and Martha live So the snowman is the top is Galilee. The middle is Samaria and the bottom is Israel now the barbell standing next to next to my wife's telling me I'm on the wrong side But the barbell next to the snowman the circle at the top is the Sea of Galilee The bar is the Jordan River and the circle at the bottom is the Dead Sea Those two pieces, you know, I should probably do mail I should probably draw this and put it on the screen the next time I go through this and we'll just have it as a Graphic this makes so much sense when you start remembering they're traveling around they're going from place to place They're going from country to country. So as soon as we get here and then they came to Jericho bottom of the snowman That's where we're at and also super close to the barbell because remember Joshua crossed over the Jordan River and then he hit the Old Testament town of Jericho So we're on the bottom of the snowman next to the barbell and if you're still with me, you're probably ADHD to just saying All of that to say is I want you to remember that the stories in the Gospels took place on the real world They took place in human history with real people in a real geography And then when you understand the snowman and the barbell we can start building more places to the outside of that So they came to Jericho two miles south of the Old Testament city of Jericho Closer to the Jordan River and Jesus and his disciples together with a large crowd were leaving the city a blind man named Bartimaeus is by the roadside begging so if this was a Movie clip and we're fading into the story, right? So you started a black screen and you fade in and here's Jesus and his disciples and a large crowd and they're all traveling out of Jericho Does that make you ask a simple question Where they going why all of a sudden why am I jumping into the story and they are? Traveling out more than likely. This is one of those times where there's an annual festival and everybody's traveling together But in the midst of everyone traveling One character is not There is one character in this opening verse that's not traveling He's just sitting and here in begins the tension of this story There is one man by the name of Bartimaeus and then you have that little parenthetical note Bar means son of so Bartimaeus literally means son of Timaeus Thankfully, we don't do that anymore because then my son's name would be bar bill And that doesn't make a whole lot of sense So Micah I'm glad that your name Micah and not bar bill So there's one man sitting by the roadside begging the final thing I need you to understand before we make it out of verse 46 is this is first century Rome There is no social services There is no social security there is no food stamps there is no social structure in place to help someone in need That is why verse 46 ends with sitting by the roadside begging Because there is nothing else for him He literally lives day to day on the good will of those who walk by because since he's blind and What's interesting is the story doesn't tell us if he was born blind or if he just went blind The story doesn't sell us if you know He was in the acne chemical plant and got dropped into a vat of acid and that's why all of a sudden He's blind in a Batman villain Nobody got nobody got the Batman joke. Thank you for the one guy who gets the Joker joke Nothing is explained to us about why Bartimaeus is blind It's only explained that he's in the middle of this moment where everyone else is walking by and he's waiting to see if Anyone will help him meet his most basic needs Because if no one gives him any alms if no one gives him any money Bartimaeus will starve to death. He lives on the goodwill of others Then we get to verse 47 So here into this first century city while everyone is walking by and Bartimaeus is stationary Waiting to live off the goodwill of others 47 and when he heard Why does he have to hear? Because he can't see right so he hears that it was Jesus of Nazareth So next question, how does Bartimaeus sitting by the roadside hear Jesus walking by in a crowd of other footsteps? I think the obvious answer is Somebody had to tell him right either that or they're walking by and they're like, oh my gosh, is that Jesus? I think it is isn't that the one right? So Bartimaeus is picking up on what's going down around him whether somebody came to him directly and said Bart That's Jesus bro, or he just happens to hear a couple walking by and they're speaking about Jesus either way Auditory is the only sense he has to work with Unless he's literally gonna walk up and touch Jesus's face to recognize him and even then you'd have to know what Jesus's face felt Like so he hears The one sense that does work he hears That it was Jesus of Nazareth and he begins to shout and his opening statement is money gold watch this Jesus okay Jesus is like the name Joshua. There's probably at least three Joshua's in any given crowd in the first century But what does he say next? son of David this one blind man sitting by the roadside Sees something that the crowd does not this one blind man Recognizes and I won't say sees how about we change it this one blind man recognizes or identifies the real Messiah of Israel and He's the blind one You don't find that ironic Jesus is walking through an entire crowd of people on his way out of Jericho likely traveling to Jerusalem At a time that's a that's a religious festival There's a whole bunch of people around him and the blind dude sees him for who he really is and he shouts out Jesus son of David have mercy on me That that opening statement is so full of faith He can he can't even see Jesus He just hears and here's the other thing if he's blind Can he possibly know how close Jesus is at the moment? He utters Jesus Jesus is at the moment he utters the sentence. No, so what's the most likely thing that he did? Yeah, why do you think he shouted at the top? I'm not gonna yell because I'm wearing a microphone But let's why do you think he shouted at the top of his lungs? Because he has no idea how far or close he is He's hearing a crowd a throng full of people are walking by tons of footsteps tons of ambient noise Tons of animal sounds because they were traveling with animals. He just belts it for all he's got Jesus son of David Have mercy on me and Again, I would love to tell you that everybody supported him and they rallied around him and they encouraged his faith But that is not how we get to verse 48 48 many Rebuked him and told him to be quiet Why why does the crowd Tell this one blind beggar to shut it Because the crowd has already pre decided That Jesus's time is more valuable than this man's problems and they go Don't but you know, don't bother the teacher. Can you shush? Hey, we've already given you your arms You're gonna get you got what you're gonna get. Can you please just shut up? Don't bother him Right. That's the crowd's attitude here This man who lit and the man who lives by the charitable giving of others is being told to shut it and So his response now at this moment you got two choices you're either gonna go along with the crowd Or you're gonna be bill and you're gonna tell the crowd to shove it and do what you want Anyways, which is what he does in the end of verse 48 son of David have he doubles down son of David have mercy on me While everyone is telling him to be quiet while everyone is telling him to shush he Identifies the Messiah a second time and he yells out son of David have mercy on me. Why? Because the crowd did not see Jesus the way Bartimaeus did They saw what was in front of them Bartimaeus had the faith to see what wasn't Readily visible but was still very real is Jesus the promised Messiah of the of the Jewish people. Yes is Jesus the Savior of the world. Yes Did the crowd recognize that in this moment? No, so don't get it twisted if they can literally be walking side-by-side with Jesus and not get who he is We today can share a Bible verse with someone and them not get who Jesus is Identifying Jesus has to be more than something you see Has to be more than just sharing a quick Bible verse or a tick-tock video or an Instagram reel Because they were walking by the flesh and bone body of the Savior and they didn't see what Bartimaeus saw through his faith son of David second time have mercy on me and Then in verse 49 Jesus stopped Now I think built into the the reason I titled this this sermon listening like Jesus is because I think Jesus stopped implies That Jesus heard right? I think that's that's clear by the verse 49 Jesus stopped and said call him Jesus didn't make it up Now what's interesting is the Bible doesn't say whether Jesus heard him the first time He doesn't the Bible just gives us these verses in order Bartimaeus cries out the crowd tells him to be quiet Bartimaeus cries out again, and then Jesus goes well Yeah, that dude bring him over here and now Jesus hears Something that the rest of the crowd doesn't hear so it's interesting is Bartimaeus is blind But sees Jesus through he is and the crowd is deaf and he hears Bartimaeus for what he's really saying You see all these these ironies are built into this cute little story that you might just walk by and just Oh, it's just a healing story. Let's move on. No, there is so much humanity packed into this Jesus is in the middle of this big loud traveling crowd that are trying to tell the blind man to shut up and he hears Something through the noise That the rest of the crowd doesn't hear Just as much as Bartimaeus saw and actually if we go up to the beginning Bartimaeus heard something that the crowd didn't hear and he knew it and he says So verse 49 Jesus stopped and said call him two word response. Yo, give me that guy So they called to the blind man cheer up This is so funny All of a sudden now the crowds like oh, this is so good for you Right the same people who are standing there and they're like, oh, I'm so sorry Oh, this is so good for you, right the same people who are standing in front of like Dan when you shut up Oh, but guess what? Oh Dan Jesus wants to talk to you. Let's cheer up Just the sheer Hypocrisy of the crowd to me is humorous. They're all of a sudden. Sure. Sure. Sure. Oh Dan. Jesus wants to see you Oh, come on, bro. Let me help you what I was just telling you to shut up 30 seconds ago Cheer up get on your feet. Why? because Jesus Made it about him see the crowd thought that Dan wasn't good enough for Jesus Jesus didn't see it that way Jesus need now there's a giant rebuke here to the crowd that kind of goes unsaid, right? The crowds telling him to shut up the crowds telling him to shut up and all of a sudden when Jesus stops the crowd stops When Jesus refocuses the crowd refocuses and now the crowd goes along why because Jesus makes Bartimaeus the point Bartimaeus by himself identifying Jesus and Messiah crying out to him wasn't enough But Jesus simply says two words Call him and now the crowd stops and now the crowd begins to back Bartimaeus cheer up Get on your feet. He's calling you and then in verse 50. Here's Bartimaeus his response throwing his cloak aside Let's just let's just take those four words first What's in what's let me try to say this way what's in Bartimaeus his cloak Everything he has if he was begging by the roadside and people were throwing alms Or or denarius or whatever to him. Where do you put it? In his pockets in his cloak and when he throws his cloak aside He is also throwing aside Anything he earned that day He is throwing aside the throwaway alms of the crowd to rush to Jesus There's a priority here in those throwing his cloak aside those four words Bartimaeus is saying I want what Jesus has for me more than I want any of y'all's leftovers Because what Jesus can give me what he can do for me Will change my life in ways that the leftovers that you guys throw at me The leftovers that you guys throw at me can never do see the leftovers you give me might sustain me for a day or two He can change my life forever and that's all built into this. He throws his cloak aside Jumps to his feet. Do you see the the sheer magnitude of those those words? He throws his cloak aside. He jumps to his feet and he came to Jesus Now what's also interesting is this point? He's still blind so a blind man throwing his cloak off and Jumping to his feet Still had to be guided to Jesus Unless Jesus like unless they did like a part the seas kind of way and they just waited for him to stumble forward It doesn't seem to me that way. He came directly to Jesus He throws aside the cloak. He throws aside any of the worldly provision. He rushes to Jesus and In classic Jesus fashion 51 Jesus has to go So Jesse, what do you want me to do for you? Let's just be honest Anytime Jesus asks a question we have to ask ourselves. Why does Jesus ask if you Bob you're good-looking today. I'm gonna pick on you next Bob if you were Jesus, so everybody else take five. I'm just gonna ask Bob a question Bob if you were Jesus and There's a blind man beside the road begging and he calls out for mercy and then they bring the blind man to you What do you think the blind man wants? right Does that seem obvious to you? Now here's something you may not know. Do you know what one of the Old Testament expectations of the Jewish Messiah is? That he would give sight to the blind The deaf will hear and the blind will see in the great and glorious day of the Lord, that's an Old Testament reference Jesus allows Bartimaeus To tell him what's really going on. He says what do you what do you want me to do for you and The blind man said rabbi now that word rabbi is very important that word rabbi doesn't just mean like teacher it means it's really more of Any Star Wars fans anybody really like Star Wars? All right. Yeah, you're my boy, right? So In Star Wars and it is gonna make sense ADHD. Just go with me So in Star Wars anytime the Jedi are getting trained you have the younger Jedi and they're paired with the experienced Jedi, right? What does the Padawan Jedi call the experienced Jedi I Heard it somebody say it starts with an M Master right doesn't matter whether you're talking about the good ones or the bad ones It doesn't matter we're talking about the way that Anakin spoke to Obi-Wan or the way that Obi-Wan spoke to Qui-Gon see geek skills right there They called the younger called the greater master I'll give you two guesses what rabbi translates to in English Master it doesn't just mean that you're more educated than me, right? That's what teacher kind of means teacher means you are more educated and you have more knowledge than me Master means you have more everything than me and I willingly submit to learn from you You see the difference the Star Wars Jedi culture very much fits this idea of what a rabbi meant in first century Judaism when he says rabbi you could substitute Anakin speaking to Obi-Wan I got to get the order right yeah, so Anakin speaking to Obi-Wan master I want to see Obi-Wan speaking to Qui-Gon master I want to see so on and so forth all the way back up so when he says rabbi. He's not just saying Jesus I know you know more than me. He's saying master I Submit myself to you you are greater than me. I want what you have Master in this moment I want to see all of that is buried in that word rabbi that we kind of pass by because we just think of rabbis We almost in English we use rabbi for the word like Jewish priest Jewish pastor, right? Just like we would use the word imam for a Muslim. Holy man We use the word rabbi for a Jewish holy man, and we use pastor priest bishop and all those other words for a Christian holy person But in this culture that word has a totally extra context which is master I want to see now If there's an entire crowd witnessing this event it is possible that the crowd didn't know he was blind Unlikely if they're assisting him to get to Jesus What Jesus does in verse 51 is he undoes what the crowd had said to Bartimaeus The crowd told him to shut up the crowd told him he's not good enough Don't waste the master's time here here just take Dan take some alms go get some Taco Bell go have fun Leave him alone When Jesus stops the motion stops the crowd and Jesus makes it about Bartimaeus all of a sudden He gives Bartimaeus the opportunity to speak over the rest of the crowd Whereas the crowd was trying to get Bartimaeus to shut up Jesus turns it on its head He gets the whole crowd to shut up because now everyone's gonna watch what the miracle worker does So whereas the crowd was ultimately choking out Bartimaeus Jesus puts Bartimaeus center, and he says now what do you want me to do for you? Master I would like Cheesecake Factory He says Rabbi I want to see and in verse 52 Jesus also has a very very clever way of responding in verse 52 Go said Jesus Your faith has healed you Now that's a very clever statement because Jesus did not say I heal you Right. Just didn't say that Even though we know from the beginning of the story Bartimaeus Correctly identifies Jesus as the Jewish messianic figure Which means Bartimaeus is correct in his belief that Jesus can heal his blindness Because the Old Testament promised that the Jewish Messiah would bring sight to the blind Interestingly in this story the entire crowd is blind and only Bartimaeus sees Jesus for who he really is The entire crowd is deaf and only Jesus hears the voice of faith coming from Jesus Because Bartimaeus is the one who correctly identified who he is and in 52 Jesus now says go Your faith has healed you And if the next sentence was not a part of verse 52 Also, remember side note when your body when the Bible was written when this original document was written There were no chapter and verse notations. It was just a book right mark was just writing down his gospel He did not stop and go Liz. I think we should put 52 here. That's a good idea So if the story stopped with go Jesus said your faith has healed you it would still be an awesome miraculous healing story of the Messiah But there's one final detail that I think turns the entire story on its head number one Immediately the brother is healed Bartimaeus is standing in the middle of a crowd where he was just begging for help Of a crowd where he was just begging at the roadside and now he has sight and now he can what was that moment like? I have no idea It had to be and this is going to sound stupid to say it this way. It had to be miraculous It had to be a moment where the Jewish Messiah See Bartimaeus identifies Jesus as the Messiah and now Jesus identifies himself as the one who brings sight to the blind In response to Bartimaeus's faith But that's still not the end of the story then Immediately he received his sight that could be the end of the story and it would still be an awesome miracle But there's one final detail and followed Jesus along the road If you take and followed Jesus on the road And you fold the story back on itself and you go back to the end of verse 46 where we started Together with a large crowd were leaving the city a blind man Bartimaeus Was sitting by the roadside begging These this is this is how the story brings itself full circle 46 He's blind By the roadside begging waiting for the goodwill of other people 52 He's now not where he started He's now sighted when before he was blind And and and now he's following where before he was just sitting His faith changed his entire life circumstance Sitting changed to walking blind changed to sight begging changed to following He's not waiting for people to throw him coins anymore He's following the one who has everything he needs when he said master I want to see he was committing himself to following Jesus and then he follows through In verse 52 when he got his sight he could have been like Thanks, man But he doesn't do that Bartimaeus ultimately responds to his healing now Claudia I have to say the story doesn't say that he ever went back for his cloak Did he Well, I don't know. I don't know how much money he had that day, you know But what I like about the story not saying it Is it alludes to the idea that he left the old life behind and he walked on into a new life? And that's normally where this sermon ends for me Normally you get to the moment where Bartimaeus's life is radically transformed by his faith You challenge everybody. How is their faith challenging their faith? Challenging their life you go to the altar call moment and we're done That's normally where this sermon would end but jim. That's not where we're going to end today Because this story or this sermon series has me coming at this story from a completely different angle And that is I don't want you to identify with Bartimaeus I want you to identify with jesus The series is love like jesus So how do we walk through this story? And love like jesus loves through the story. Here's what I think Is it true that jesus is just going about his day? This is a story that we're going to talk about today Number one we need to recognize jesus was just going about his day This was just an airy day. This was not a religious moment. We're not at church. We're not feeling super holy We're literally just on the road getting from a to b So I would say the first thing in order to list the so the title of this morning's sermon is listen like jesus In order to listen like jesus you have to be ready to listen at any moment That is jesus is just like a Is a program that leaves the ears and our brain smoke Is like a sneaker special And that terry is like And maybe we're talking about Jesus. I know this past week. I have gotten a million texts and phone calls about the eclipse tomorrow Everybody is super certain that Jesus. I'm like We just finished studying revelation. We just finished studying relation. Did nobody come to church? No, most of most of them are from my friends who are out of town because they weren't here like we were Life has a lot of noise You know, I'm still trying to figure out learn how to use social media be perfectly honest with you. I hate it But it's a part of our culture when in Rome you got to learn to speak to Romans. There's so much noise Are you ever actively listening? For the small sound of faith in the midst of the noise of life. I will admit to you. I'm not I just I'll admit it there are days that I get up and it's just an a to b kind of day I'm just trying to check the to-do list I'm trying to get work done so that I can get home and get my housework done so that I can then eat dinner Go to bed do my schoolwork done, right? And it's just checkbox after checkbox after checkbox if life becomes a series of checkboxes We will miss the moments where people's lives are ready to be changed and we're too busy checking boxes and in this moment Surrounded by a crowd with a whole lot of noise traveling from a to b Jesus listens through that noise and he hears the one voice that needs his attention If that's the only thing you take away from today's sermon go do that this week. I Guarantee you there are small voices of faith little whispers now for me almost every time somebody's somebody comes to me my my new favorite sentence So I have a question I Get it all the time I get it at home for my nieces from my children I get it like at work. I get Facebook messages text messages. So I have a question What I have learned is That's the sound of faith in my life I have somehow become the guy that everybody feels comfortable asking questions to so that's my trigger sound When I hear that so I have a question I'm like, huh? I Was out yesterday Running some errands for my sister-in-law and my niece texts me and she's like so I have a question And it was it was it was a it was a theology question It was a question about God and I happen to be driving by where she goes to work So I pulled in I'm literally on the phone with her I pull in she goes Oh, there you are And so I go in it takes me what I think five seven eight minutes To try to give a quality answer to a question of why because she was in the middle of a conversation with somebody else About God that I wasn't a part of but she needed some backup to help explain something in a way that her friend could get And so I quickly I dart in I'm there Of course, if you're at Duncan got to eat a donut So I got I got a reward for being able to be there for my niece like a good uncle should I? Grab a donut and so there's that sound so I have a question Do you know what the sound of faith sounds like in your life? Do you know when you're when your kid comes to you? so What about fill in the blank? I mean whatever it is if you ever come to eat at my dining room table I'm just gonna apologize ahead of time. No idea what questions come across my dining table They could be anything from the eclipse to God to demons to AI to end of the world dystopian dramas like no idea But there's a moment where you hear that sound of faith in the midst of life and then there's still one moment to come after that You got to choose whether you're gonna stop your day Or whether you're gonna let that sound fade away Because if Jesus had kept on walking he would have eventually walked away and not been able to hear Bartimaeus cry and Then Bartimaeus could have yelled till he was blue in the face Once Jesus was out of acoustic range That moment has passed by As I was studying this sermon for this week. I really had to ask myself How many times was I so in tune to my to-do list that I passed by opportunities And I'm not saying opportunities to share the gospel watch somebody get saved baptized and filled the Holy Spirit all in the same one day No, maybe just plant a seed I think if we just take the pressure off of we all have to preach the gospel every single day to every single person we meet And maybe all you need to do is just plant a seed that God still loves you Maybe you just plant that seed God knows what you're going through and he's not happy about it either You need to plant that seed girl. You're not alone. There are other people hit me up when you're ready to talk like sometimes It's just Greg Cocoa would say it's it's putting a pebble in somebody's shoe Give him a little idea and let him walk on it Give him a little thought and let him hang on it and then let him come back in this moment Jesus hears that sound of faith. He stops. What is going on and he makes that sound the focus That's my challenge to you this week how often How often are we ready and willing and even attentive To their people all around us could be our neighbors. It could be our co-workers. It could be somebody on social media who's Man, they're like inches away from asking the real heart question that they want to ask But they don't think anybody's paying attention they don't think anybody's willing to listen and Then that and then that moment passes and then their heart question gets buried with life and and and struggles and man do it I hear you life is stressful. It is But I believe that the church was designed to be the mechanism that shares the love of Jesus with the world around us We can't do that if we're not listening We can't do that if we're not paying attention If we are not ready and here's the other thing if you're not ready to stop Then there's no point in listening Right if you're not willing to stop and take eight minutes out of your day Then either a you are so super busy. We need to figure out how to change your schedule or be you don't care Like I got to be just perfectly honest with you. Some people don't listen because they are too busy Some people don't listen because they just don't care and if that's if you're in the latter category then I would really rather talk to you because Hell is a real place and the gospel is a real thing and Jesus is a real Savior and there was a real resurrection And that's why people need to know that Because the consequences are we leave people blind begging in the gutter When they could be cited and following Jesus, I Want more people cited and following Jesus and if that means I need to you know Take the pedal off the off the accelerator a little bit slow my life down Listen to the opportunities there around me and wait to hear that sound and it might be hey, so I got a question It might be hey you go to church, right? Dude, that's a big whoa whoa big green light. That's about to be a God centered question. Take it you go to church, right? Okay, so I don't get it, especially with the Eclipse tomorrow for the love of goodness Everybody's thinking about Jesus coming back even if they don't even know who he is They just think you know, I mean because why because right now God and and and end times on stuff is is in our cultural view the camera has panned that way So are we listening that person? You know doesn't go to church that might actually ask a God question Jump on it. Take it go for it. Call me if you need backup, but don't let it pass by Because and I know I've spoken with some of you you have that one co-worker who you know is adamantly Against faith but asks good questions Let me cue you in on something. They're not as against faith as they say they are if they're still asking questions Don't close the conversation Keep it open and listen like Jesus So let me give you your takeaway while I ask the ushers to get ready and the worship team to come back up Here's your takeaway Jesus listened through the noise of the crowd and Responded to the one whose life was ready to be changed By faith That's what I want you to take away from this story today Jesus listened through the noise of the crowd and he responded to the one whose life was ready to be changed by faith I submit to you that that is what you and I Need to do this week Because I believe There is someone With the number of people that we have just in this room not even counting all of you who join us online I totally forgot to look at you this morning I love you. Thank you for being there hank. That's probably you over in louisiana Or mississippi. I forget one of those southern states with a bayou in it and gators. That's how I remember it With all the people we have here. I guarantee you there's at least one person in our extended sphere of influence Who's ready to have a god conversation who's ready to talk about jesus who's ready to be invited to church? But if we're not paying attention If we're it's not on our radar then we're going to miss the opportunity to see somebody's life changed Now are we the one who changes it? No Jesus does that But we're the one to introduce him to the guy Who changes their life just like the person said here here. Let me help you up and he's calling for you Somebody's heart is here. Jesus calling for them and they just need a little help to get there and that's how we change people's eternities You