Created to be MEN
Wednesday, February 2, 2022 11:24 AM
Created to be MEN
Genesis 1:26–31
We are created to be IMAGE BEARERS
26 Then God said, “Let us make mankindin our image, in our likeness, so that they may ruleover the
fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the livestock and all the wild animals, and over all the
creatures that move along the ground.”
Mankind-this word refers to all humans, it is a gender neutral word. ALL people are image-
bearers
Our image-the plural word is a veiled reference to the Trinity, man has the ability for spiritual
relationship
They may rule-mankind was created to be God's regent, a ruling representative of HIS authority
We are created to be MEN
27 So God created mankind in his own image, in the image of God he created them; maleand female he
created them.
Created them-to make something that has not been before, to shape or craft
Male-our sex is not an accident or a dice roll, we were CREATED to be men
We are created to be LEADERS
28 God blessed themand said to them, “Be fruitfuland increase in number; fill the earth and subdue it.
Rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky and over every living creature that moves on the
ground.”
Blessed them-to praise; to fill with strength; the "atta boy"
Be fruitful / increase in number-this is not only the ability to reproduce, but the responsibility to!
Subdue it-to lead, direct, dominate, control, govern… to be IN CHARGE
We are created to be STEWARDS
29 Then God said, “I give youevery seed-bearing plant on the face of the whole earth and every tree that
has fruit with seed in it. They will be yours for food. 30 And to all the beasts of the earth and all the birds
in the sky and all the creatures that move along the ground—everything that has the breath of life in it—
I give every green plant for food.” And it was so.
I give you-God not only gave us a mission, He gave us provision to do it
Yours for food-God's provision required stewardship
We were created to SERVANTS
31 God saw all that he had made, and it was very good. And there was evening, and there was
morning—the sixth day.
Very good-this is the only time in the chapter creation is VERY GOOD
Aggression = the desire to compete and accomplish a goal NOT BAD
Violence = the use of force to accomplish a goal NOT BAD
Aggressively pursue Godliness
Violently protect your marriage and family from outside distractions
Mens Page 1

Passivity = avoidance of activity due to selfishness or fear
Mens Page 2

Men as Guardians
Wednesday, March 2, 2022 10:37 AM
Genesis 3:1–24 (NIV)
1 Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals the LORD God had made. He said to the
woman, “Did God really say, ‘You must not eat from any tree in the garden’?”
Sin always begins by questioning the truth of God's Word
2 The woman said to the serpent, “We may eat fruit from the trees in the garden,
3 but God did say, ‘You must not eatfruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden, and you
must not touch it, or you will die.’”
Men have a responsibility to teach their families to obey God's Word
4 “You will not certainly die,” the serpent said to the woman.
5 “For God knowsthat when you eat from it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing
good and evil.”
Sin falsely presents God's purposes behind His Word
6 When the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to the eye, and also
desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and ate it. She also gave some to her husband, who was
with her, and he ate it.
Men must stand up against sin, not silently participate in it
7 Then the eyes of both of themwere opened, and they realized they were naked; so they sewed fig
leaves together and made coverings for themselves.
Sin affects the whole family, not just one person
8 Then the man and his wife heard the sound of the LORD God as he was walking in the garden in the
cool of the day, and they hid from the LORD God among the trees of the garden.
9 But the LORD God called to the man, “Where are you?”
10 He answered, “I heard you in the garden, andI was afraid because I was naked; so I hid.”
Sin always affects our relationship with God
11 And he said, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded
you not to eat from?”
12 The man said, “The woman you put here with me—she gave me some fruit from the tree, and I ate
it.”
13 Then the LORD God said to the woman, “What is this you have done?” The woman said, “The serpent
deceived me, and I ate.”
Mens Page 3

deceived me, and I ate.”
14 So the LORD God said to the serpent, “Because you have done this, “Cursed are you above all
livestock and all wild animals! You will crawl on your belly and you will eat dust all the days of your life.
15 And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and hers; he will
crush your head, and you will strike his heel.”
16 To the woman he said, “I will make your painsin childbearing very severe; with painful labor you will
give birth to children. Your desirewill be for your husband, and he will rule over you.”
Eve's consequences focused on HER
17 To Adam he said, “Because you listened to your wife and ate fruit from the tree about which I
commanded you, ‘You must not eat from it,’ “Cursed is the groundbecause of you; through painful toil
you will eat food from it all the days of your life.
18 It will produce thorns and thistles for you, and you will eat the plants of the field.
19 By the sweat of your brow you will eat your food until you return to the ground, since from it you
were taken; for dust you are and to dust you will return.”
Adam's consequences affected CREATION ITSELF
20 Adam named his wife Eve, because she would become the mother of all the living.
21 The LORD God made garments of skinfor Adam and his wife and clothed them.
God provided a covering for the consequences of human sin
22 And the LORD God said, “The man has now become like one of us, knowing good and evil. He must
not be allowed to reach out his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat, and live forever.”
23 So the LORD God banished him from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he had been
taken.
24 After he drove the man out, he placed on the east side of the Garden of Eden cherubim and a flaming
sword flashing back and forth to guard the way to the tree of life.
Mens Page 4

Men as Worshipers
Wednesday, May 4, 2022 2:52 PM
Genesis 4:1–7 (NIV)
1 Adam made love to his wife Eve, and she became pregnant and gave
birth to Cain. She said, “With the help of the LORD I have brought forth
a man.”
Made love to… pregnant - Men are designed to be husbands and
fathers
- God's original command/blessing is not destroyed by sin (1:28)
Forth a man - Eve was expecting Cain to be the Messiah promised
in the last chapter
2 Later she gave birth to his brother Abel. Now Abel kept flocks, and
Cain worked the soil.
Later - Cain is the older of the two sons
Brother - Cain and Able have the same parents
Flocks/Soil - there is no indication that one vocation is preferred to
the other
3 In the course of time Cain brought some of the fruits of the soil as an
offering to the LORD.
Course of time - as life was happening, worship and was a normal
part of everyday life
Some of the fruit - not the first or best, just some of the fruit
Mens Page 5

Some of the fruit - not the first or best, just some of the fruit
Offering - giving offerings to the Lord is a normative part of a life of
faith
4 And Abel also brought an offering—fat portions from some of the
firstborn of his flock. The LORD looked with favor on Abel and his
offering,
Also brought an offering - Adam taught his sons to worship the
Lord
Fat/firstborn - the best of the offerings, not just "some"
Looked with favor - the Lord was pleased with the Abel's offering
5 but on Cain and his offering he did not look with favor. So Cain was
very angry, and his face was downcast.
Did not look with favor - God does not receive all offerings the
same way
Very angry/downcast - Cain is angry and depressed that God won't
accept offerings "his way"
6 Then the LORD said to Cain, “Why are you angry? Why is your face
downcast?
Said to Cain - even after the fall, and Cain's own mistake, the Lord
still spoke to him
Mens Page 6

still spoke to him
Why…? - you can't do things your way and claim they are God's
will
7 If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? But if you do not do
what is right, sin is crouching at your door; it desires to have you, but
you must rule over it.”
What is right - this implies a standard of "rightness" that exists
outside of us all, God's standard
Do not do - we have the choice to choose our own way over God's
will
Sin - to miss the mark of God's perfect plan, an archery term
Desires to have you - meaning, desires to be your master
Closing thoughts:
As Christian men, we are both Adam and Cain.
As Adam, we must teach our children to worship the Lord and give
offerings to Him as a normal part of our faith
Ad Cain, we must prepare for the inevitable failures that will come and
not allow anger/depression to drive us to sin
Mens Page 7

Men as Failures
Wednesday, June 1, 2022 3:42 PM
Genesis 4:8–16 (NIV)
8 Now Cain saidto his brother Abel, “Let’s go out to the field.” While they were in the field, Cain
attacked his brother Abel and killedhim.
SAID -this implies conversation between the brothers.
TO THE FIELD-while this can be seen as premeditation, the field is also Able's workplace
KILLED HIM-anger left uncheck always kills
9 Then the LORD said to Cain, “Where isyour brotherAbel?” “I don’t know,” he replied. “Am I my
brother’s keeper?”
WHERE IS -God questions Cain the same way He questioned Adam & Eve, like His own children
BROTHER - the term here can mean brother, blood relative, tribesman, clansmen, etc
KEEPER - the term here implies responsibility for, like an older brother
10 The LORD said, “What have you done? Listen! Your brother’s blood cries out to me from the ground.
LORD SAID -like Adam, the Lord is speaking to Cain
FROM THE GROUND -the source of life and main job for Adam and Cain, Abel's murder polluted
it.
11 Now you are under a curse and driven from the ground, which opened its mouth to receive your
brother’s blood from your hand.
NOW… UNDER A CURSE -the "curse" is a response to Cain's violent actions, failing to obey God
FROM THE GROUND -the ground again is featured as a part of the story, Cain's livelihood
12 When you work the ground, it will no longer yieldits crops for you. You will be a restless wanderer on
the earth.”
WORK THE GROUND -Cain would still need to eat, still need to work
NO LONGER YIELD -Cain experienced a failure in work because of an act of disobedience to God
13 Cain saidto the LORD, “My punishmentis more than I can bear.
CAIN SAID -now Cain finally speaks to God without the attitude
MY PUNISHMENT -the word can also be: sin, misdeed, mistake, iniquity, etc
14 Today you are driving me from the land, and I will be hidden from your presence; I will be a restless
wanderer on the earth, and whoever finds mewill kill me.”
DRIVING ME FROM THE LAND -again, the theme of "the land" for Cain is His provision and job
HIDDEN FROM YOUR PRESENCE - Cain is being exiled from the land of His birth and from God's
presence
WHOEVER FINDS ME -this verse implies there are other people on the earth, Gen 5:4 guarantees
it
15 But the LORD said to him, “Not so;anyone who kills Cain will suffer vengeance seven times over.”
Then the LORD put a mark on Cainso that no one who found him would kill him.
Mens Page 8

Then the LORD put a mark on Cainso that no one who found him would kill him.
NOT SO -God would not allow the situation that Cain is worried about, oddly as a murderer he's
afraid of murder
Mark on Cain-Scripture does not give any clues as to what this mark was. Whatever it was, it was
interpreted by those other humans living at that time as a mark of protection
16 So Cain went out from the LORD’s presenceand lived in the land of Nod, east of Eden.
FROM THE LORD'S PRESENCE -the presence is the relationship or closeness of creation to Creator
Lived in the land of Nod-"Nod" is a play on "NAD" meaning wanderer, literally, "The Land of
Wandering"
Cain reminds us that as men, anger and violence are well known to us. We must all realize even after we
have failed at something, God is His grace is still making a way for us. Forgiveness does not always mean
absolution, it means a new start.
Mens Page 9

Men as Second Chance Leaders
Wednesday, July 6, 2022 3:58 PM
Genesis 6:9–22 (NIV)
I. The Flood Narrative is about Humanity's Second Chance, not just Noah
being a good man.
9 This is the account of Noah and his family. Noah was a righteous man, blameless
among the people of his time, and he walked faithfully with God.
The account of Noah - /Toledot/ of Noah
And his family - Noah is the main character, but not the only character, this
is about Humanity's Second Chance
Three descriptions of Noah
Righteous man
Blameless amount the people of his time (how great the wickedness of
the human race 6:5)
Walked faithfully with God
10 Noah had three sons: Shem, Ham and Japheth.
3 Sons - Adam also had 3 sons: Cain, Abel, and Seth
- Noah is in viewed as a "second chance"
II. Because of human sin, the land itself is corrupted
11 Now the earth was corrupt in God’s sight and was full of violence.
Earth was corrupt - the earth or land, sin has scarred the planet, just not
people
In God's sight - sin is always defined in God's sight, not ours
Full of violence - one of God's names in the Word is "Jehovah Shalom" "You
are my peace"
12 God saw how corrupt the earth had become, for all the people on earth had
corrupted their ways.
Mens Page 10

Corrupt the earth - corrupt, lit. "to ruin, destroy, annihilate"
The cause effect here is the sin of humanity has corrupted the earth itself
III. God's plan for Noah was the same as Adam: CREATE & CULTIVATE
13 So God said to Noah, “I am going to put an end to all people, for the earth is
filled with violence because of them. I am surely going to destroy both them and
the earth.
So God - God responds to the sin of humanity causing the corruption of
creation
Put an end to all people - God targets the source of sin's corruption… people
14 So make yourself an ark of cypress wood; make rooms in it and coat it with
pitch inside and out.
Ark of cypress wood - an ark is a boat, basket, chest or casket
15 This is how you are to build it: The ark is to be three hundred cubits long, fifty
cubits wide and thirty cubits high.
This is how - God already had the plan before speaking to Noah
16 Make a roof for it, leaving below the roof an opening one cubit high all around.
Put a door in the side of the ark and make lower, middle and upper decks.
17 I am going to bring floodwaters on the earth to destroy all life under the
heavens, every creature that has the breath of life in it. Everything on earth will
perish.
I am going to bring - the flood was directly FROM GOD
To destroy - this a judgment on the sin of humanity and its effect on creation
18 But I will establish my covenant with you, and you will enter the ark—you and
your sons and your wife and your sons’ wives with you.
But - God's plan is for redemption in the midst of destruction
I will establish - just as the flood was from God, so is the covenant with
humanity
Mens Page 11

humanity
19 You are to bring into the ark two of all living creatures, male and female, to
keep them alive with you.
You are to bring - this was Noah's responsibility in the flood
Two of all living creatures - God's provision for "new life" in the restart
Keep them alive with you - Noah's responsibility was to guard life
20 Two of every kind of bird, of every kind of animal and of every kind of creature
that moves along the ground will come to you to be kept alive.
21 You are to take every kind of food that is to be eaten and store it away as food
for you and for them.”
Take every kind of food - Noah's responsibility was to provide for those in his
care
22 Noah did everything just as God commanded him.
Noah did everything - the chapter begins and ends with praise for Noah
Like Noah, we are:
- Called to be second chance leaders, not just "good guys"
○ Christ has offered each of us the "second chance" to live and lead
righteously
- Live in a culture that is wicked and must be different
○ Thought culture may be bent towards sin, we must lean towards God
- Must CREATE and CULTIVATE the "living space" to redeem our families
from sin
○ Paying the bills is not enough for a Christian man! We must provide
BOTH the financial "living space" and lead our families in the right way
to live!
- Will be measured by our obedience, not our intentions
○ You ARE leading your family right now… where are you headed?
Mens Page 12

Men as Self-Worshipers
Wednesday, August 3, 2022 10:24 AM
Genesis 11:1–9 (NIV)
This is the only narrative story between the genealogies from Noah > Shem and
then Shem > Abraham
This illustrates that even after the flood, humanity still is affected by the fall
NOTE: God's directive was to spread out over the earth (1:28, 9:1)
1 Now the whole world had one language and a common speech.
Whole world - all of humanity is still in view at this point
One language/speech - this isn't just the "words" but the intention of their
efforts
2 As people moved eastward, they found a plain in Shinar and settled there.
Shinar - same place as Babylon, implying a place of disobedience and
idolatry, the "anti-Kingdom"
3 They said to each other, “Come, let’s make bricks and bake them thoroughly.”
They used brick instead of stone, and tar for mortar.
Make bricks - this is a technological advancement, not wrong, but used
wrongly
4 Then they said, “Come, let us build ourselves a city, with a tower that reaches to
the heavens, so that we may make a name for ourselves; otherwise we will be
scattered over the face of the whole earth.”
Build ourselves - working together is NOT the problem, it's the focus of the
work
To the Heavens - the height of the city was an idol to human achievement
So that we - there is the positive purpose behind the project
Mens Page 13

So that we - there is the positive purpose behind the project
Name for ourselves - the focus is on people, not on God
Otherwise/be scattered - humanity wanted to exalt itself rather than obey
God
5 But the LORD came down to see the city and the tower the people were
building.
LORD - the covenant name for God
Came down - in reverse of man trying to "go up" the LORD "comes down" to
resolve the problem
To see - lit. to examine, to inspect, to consider
People were building - the Lord 'inspected' and 'considered' the work of man
6 The LORD said, “If as one people speaking the same language they have begun
to do this, then nothing they plan to do will be impossible for them.
LORD - the covenant name for God
One people - the unity in idolatry
To do this - the 'this' is idolatry, the purpose, not the project
7 Come, let us go down and confuse their language so they will not understand
each other.”
Let us - the same "us" as Genesis 1:26 who chose to make man in "our
image"
Confuse their language - a judgement creating a condition leading men back
to obedience
Will not understand - this is both a judgment and a grace, obedience is what
is best for man
8 So the LORD scattered them from there over all the earth, and they stopped
building the city.
Scattered them - this brings humanity back onto the plan of God (1:28, 9:1)
Stopped building - the idolatry is judged and stopped
9 That is why it was called Babel—because there the LORD confused the language
Mens Page 14

9 That is why it was called Babel—because there the LORD confused the language
of the whole world. From there the LORD scattered them over the face of the
whole earth.
Babel - in Hebrew means: to confound or to confuse
Confused the language - by separating the understanding of language, God
guides humanity back to His will
The Takeaway:
If the LORD were "examine" your actions, are they for HIS PLANS or YOURS?
What mind the LORD be confusing in your life to guide you to HIS PLAN?
Mens Page 15

Men as Covenant Leaders
Wednesday, October 5, 2022 1:29 PM
Genesis 12:1–5 (NIV)
This is one of the most important passages in the Bible. Known as the "Abrahamic
Covenant" it lays out the calling of Abram and the people of Israel who would
come from him. He is the most used example in Scripture of a man who had the
faith to follow God.
1 The LORD had said to Abram, “Go from your country, your people and your
father’s household to the land I will show you.
LORD – the covenant name for God
Abram – at this point, an everyday pagan man of his day
God called Abram leave four things behind:
country – His place of identity
people – His existing relationships
Father's household – His known reputation
I will show you – The comfort of his surroundings
2 “I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you; I will make your name
great, and you will be a blessing.
I will make – God is active agent in all the following actions
Great nation – the followers of Abrham would become "great"
Bless you – to fill with strength and praise-worthiness
Your name great – again, this is God as the active agent
Will be a blessing – the purpose of blessing is to be a blessing to others
3 I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you I will curse; and all
peoples on earth will be blessed through you.”
Mens Page 16

I will bless – God is seen again as the active agent
Who bless you – God's blessing is pre-figured to extent beyond Israel
I will curse – God uses both blessings and curses to accomplish His will
All people – God's plan of blessing is for the whole world (Jesus!)
4 So Abram went, as the LORD had told him; and Lot went with him. Abram was
seventy-five years old when he set out from Harran.
Abram went – the first action on Abram's part, one of obedience
LORD – covenant name for God
Lot went with him – original obedience extended to family
5 He took his wife Sarai, his nephew Lot, all the possessions they had
accumulated and the people they had acquired in Harran, and they set out for the
land of Canaan, and they arrived there.
Wife, nephew, & people – Abram's obedience directed his household
All the possessions – there was nothing "held back" from his obedience
For us to be the effective leaders Abram was called to be.
We must actively:
1. Find our identity in Christ.
2. Frame our relationships around ours with Christ.
3. Found our reputation on our obedience to Christ.
4. Choose obedience over comfort.
Mens Page 17

Men as Selfish Deceivers
Wednesday, November 2, 2022 2:19 PM
Genesis 12:10–20 (NIV)
10 Now there was a famine in the land, and Abram went
down to Egypt to live there for a while because the
famine was severe.
Famine - a lack of food (prosperity) in the land God
had just led him to!
Down to Egypt - Abram leaves the promised land and
tries to "fix" the problem himself.
To live there - Abram LIVES in a pagan land instead of
the promised land!
Abram lacked trust in God's DIRECTION
11 As he was about to enter Egypt, he said to his wife
Sarai, “I know what a beautiful woman you are.
About to enter - He waited until the last minute,
clearly he did not discuss this with her before they
left… again doing it himself
His wife - we learn two things here:
Mens Page 18

His wife - we learn two things here:
a: Sarai was beautiful
b: Abraham loved himself more than his
wife
12 When the Egyptians see you, they will say, ‘This is his
wife.’ Then they will kill me but will let you live.
When they - Abram makes his decisions based on
OTHERS reactions instead of GOD'S instructions
They will kill me - This was Abram's plan to go to
Egypt! Why not choose somewhere that they
wouldn't kill you or take your wife?
Abraham lacked trust in God's PROTECTION
13 Say you are my sister, so that I will be treated well for
your sake and my life will be spared because of you.”
You are my sister - a half-truth, intentional deception
So I will be treated well - Abram's focus is himself,
not Sarai
Mens Page 19

Because of you - Sarai was the fare, Abram was the
beneficiary
14 When Abram came to Egypt, the Egyptians saw that
Sarai was a very beautiful woman.
The Egyptians saw - Abram was right in his
assessment, but very wrong in his actions
15 And when Pharaoh’s officials saw her, they praised her
to Pharaoh, and she was taken into his palace.
Into his palace - to be a part of his harem, for the
purpose of sexual service to the pharaoh
16 He treated Abram well for her sake, and Abram
acquired sheep and cattle, male and female donkeys,
male and
female servants, and camels.
Abram acquired - Abram basically whored out his
wife to get rich in a pagan land instead of living in a
promised one
Mens Page 20

promised one
Abraham lacked trust in God's PROVISION
17 But the LORD inflicted serious diseases on Pharaoh
and his household because of Abram’s wife Sarai.
Diseases on Pharaoh - pharaoh pays the price for the
adultery; God's promised to "curse" anyone who
cursed Abraham (12:3)
18 So Pharaoh summoned Abram. “What have you done
to me?” he said. “Why didn’t you tell me she was your
wife?
What have you done? - Pharaoh knew it was wrong
to take another man's wife, but didn't know the truth
about Sarai
Why didn't you tell me - deception is always
deception
Mens Page 21

19 Why did you say, ‘She is my sister,’ so that I took her
to be my wife? Now then, here is your wife. Take her and
go!”
Take her and go - Pharaoh wants to be freed of God's
curse
20 Then Pharaoh gave orders about Abram to his men,
and they sent him on his way, with his wife and
everything he had.
Sent him on his way - Abram is escorted out of Egypt;
he may have kept his ill-gotten wealth, but his is still
back to relying on God instead of his own schemes
Pharoah gives the same "leave his land" command as did
God at the beginning of the chapter. Yet, this is giving in
dishonor, not blessing.
HOW we serve reflects directly on WHO we serve.
How do we today struggle to trust in God's DIRECTION,
PROTECTION, and/or PROVISION?
Mens Page 22

Love Your Wife
Wednesday, January 4, 2023 11:28 AM
Ephesians 5:25–33 (NIV)
25 Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her
Husbands-a special role that only a man can do
As Christ-Jesus is our example
Gave himself-the idea of the verb here is "handed over" for a purpose
For her-the purpose for the "giving himself" is the benefit of his wife
26 to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the word,
Make her holy-this is the RESULT of Christ's action for His Church
Cleansing / washing-these are both actions done BY Christ, but FOR His Church
27 and to present her to himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but
holy and blameless.
Present herself to him-the outcome of Christ's work is a holy relationship with His Church
28 In this same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves
himself.
Same way-our example is Christ, HE is who we must emulate
Husbands ought to-there is a moral imperative for husbands to follow Christ's example
Their own bodies-we are to love our wives as much as we love ourselves
29 After all, no one ever hated their own body, but they feed and care for their body, just as Christ does
the church—
Their Own Body-we all love ourselves enough to care for ourselves, we are expected to treat our
wives the same way
30 for we are members of his body.
Of his body-just as the church is Christ's, our wives are ours, we must take this responsibility
seriously
Mens Page 23

31 “For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and the two will
become one flesh.”
For this reason-Paul relates our responsibility to God's installation of marriage
The Takeaway:
How will lead your wife with love this year?
Mens Page 24

Men as Cultural Compromisers
Wednesday, February 1, 2023 2:23 PM
Genesis 16:1–16 (NIV)
1 Now Sarai, Abram’s wife, had borne him no children. But she had an
Egyptian slave named Hagar;
No children: Read Gen 15:3-6, God had promised him a numerous
descendants of his own flesh and blood
2 so she said to Abram, “The LORD has kept me from having children.
Go, sleep with my slave; perhaps I can build a family through her.”
Abram agreed to what Sarai said.
LORD - God's covenant name for His people
Kept me from having - this is wrong attitude, "not yet" is not the
same as "not at all"
Sleep with my slave - this was a normative practice at this time… it
was CULTURALLY RIGHT
3 So after Abram had been living in Canaan ten years, Sarai his wife
took her Egyptian slave Hagar and gave her to her husband to be his
wife.
Living for 10 years - God is not required to work in OUR TIME
Sarai - in a repeat of the fall, the WIFE suggests the disobedience to
God's plan
4 He slept with Hagar, and she conceived. When she knew she was
pregnant, she began to despise her mistress.
Mens Page 25

pregnant, she began to despise her mistress.
He slept with Hagar - just like Adam, Abram is guilty of HIS actions
And she conceived - sexual sin always bears fruit beyond the act
itself
Despise her mistress - sexual sin always brings hatred and division
in relationships
5 Then Sarai said to Abram, “You are responsible for the wrong I am
suffering. I put my slave in your arms, and now that she knows she is
pregnant, she despises me. May the LORD judge between you and me.”
You are responsible - She is not wrong. Abram was responsible for
his family's obedience
May the LORD judge - funny how Sarai was fine with the Lord
judging but not ok with waiting and trusting
6 “Your slave is in your hands,” Abram said. “Do with her whatever you
think best.” Then Sarai mistreated Hagar; so she fled from her.
In your hand - Abram doesn't intervene but hands the problem
back to his wife
Sarai mistreated Hagar - by not taking control, Abram allows more
malice and mistreatment in his house
So she fled - this mistreatment reach a level where Hagar fled,
taking Ishmael from his father
7 The angel of the LORD found Hagar near a spring in the desert; it was
the spring that is beside the road to Shur.
Mens Page 26

the spring that is beside the road to Shur.
Angel of the LORD - this is a Christophany or a visitation of the pre-
incarnate Christ
Spring in the desert - a place of life in the midst of barren dryness
and death
8 And he said, “Hagar, slave of Sarai, where have you come from, and
where are you going?” “I’m running away from my mistress Sarai,” she
answered.
Hagar - Jesus speak to the woman by name
Where are you - asks her questions, like the garden to give her a
chance to speak
I am running - the malice was bad enough she risked death for her
and her child
9 Then the angel of the LORD told her, “Go back to your mistress and
submit to her.”
Go back and submit - God's love language is obedience!
10 The angel added, “I will increase your descendants so much that they
will be too numerous to count.”
I will increase - this is a second promise to come from the LORD
Too numerous to count - the same as the promise to Abraham, but
not the same people
Mens Page 27

11 The angel of the LORD also said to her: “You are now pregnant and
you will give birth to a son. You shall name him Ishmael, for the LORD
has heard of your misery.
You will give birth - the child conceived in disobedience would also
carry a promise
Heard of your misery - remember Hagar is an Egyptian slave at this
point… what grace!
12 He will be a wild donkey of a man; his hand will be against everyone
and everyone’s hand against him, and he will live in hostility toward all
his brothers.”
Wild donkey of a man - he will be a travelling Bedouin
Live in hostility - from the time they were children Israel and
Ishmael have been at odds
13 She gave this name to the LORD who spoke to her: “You are the God
who sees me,” for she said, “I have now seen the One who sees me.”
God who sees me - the grace here is amazing, Jesus visiting the
slave girl in the desert is beautiful
14 That is why the well was called Beer Lahai Roi; it is still there,
between Kadesh and Bered.
This is why - the cultural practice of naming places after God's
moving is well seen in the Bible
15 So Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram gave the name Ishmael to
Mens Page 28

15 So Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram gave the name Ishmael to
the son she had borne.
Abram gave him the name - this shows she went back and obeyed
God's directive to submit
16 Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore him Ishmael.
Abram was 86 - the passing of age and generations is a part of the
book's organization
The Takeaway:
We as men are faced with the choice to follow culture or follow Christ.
Sexual sin is destructive on a generational level to families. We must
lead our families to obey and not waver.
Mens Page 29

Men as Sign Carriers
Wednesday, March 1, 2023 2:00 PM
Genesis 17:1–14 (NIV)
1 When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the LORD appeared to him
and said, “I am God Almighty; walk before me faithfully and be
blameless.
99 years old - this relates the events in this chapter to previous life
events
In the land for 24 years (12:4)
Ishmael was born 13 years ago (16:16)
LORD - Covenant name for God
Walk Blameless - this is not a condition, but a response to God's
covenant
2 Then I will make my covenant between me and you and will greatly
increase your numbers.”
I will make my covenant - God is the only ACTIVE participant in the
covenant
Increase your numbers - literally, his descendants; also his
influence and importance
3 Abram fell facedown, and God said to him,
Fell facedown - this is the only proper human response to God's
presence
4 “As for me, this is my covenant with you: You will be the father of
many nations.
My covenant with you - again, this covenant was FROM God to
Mens Page 30

My covenant with you - again, this covenant was FROM God to
man
5 No longer will you be called Abram; your name will be Abraham, for I
have made you a father of many nations.
Abram - lit. "Exalted Father"
Abraham - lit. "Father of a multitude"
6 I will make you very fruitful; I will make nations of you, and kings will
come from you.
I will make - God's actions
Nations / kings will come - again, God's actions not Abram's
7 I will establish my covenant as an everlasting covenant between me
and you and your descendants after you for the generations to come, to
be your God and the God of your descendants after you.
Descendants after you - God's covenant with Israel is for ALL TIME
8 The whole land of Canaan, where you now reside as a foreigner, I will
give as an everlasting possession to you and your descendants after
you; and I will be their God.”
I will give - the land is an inheritance from God to the people of
Israel
9 Then God said to Abraham, “As for you, you must keep my covenant,
you and your descendants after you for the generations to come.
As for you - God is not giving Abraham's "conditions" but
Mens Page 31

As for you - God is not giving Abraham's "conditions" but
responsibilities in response
Keep my covenant - the covenant was always God's, but Abram
had to keep it
10 This is my covenant with you and your descendants after you, the
covenant you are to keep: Every male among you shall be circumcised.
Every male - the inheritance was "held" in the flesh of the male
descendants
11 You are to undergo circumcision, and it will be the sign of the
covenant between me and you.
Be the sign of the covenant - the sign is the symbol of NOT the
means of
12 For the generations to come every male among you who is eight
days old must be circumcised, including those born in your household or
bought with money from a foreigner—those who are not your offspring.
Generations - the continued theme of an everlasting covenant
8 days old - Vitamin K & Thrombocin
Including… foreigner - the covenant could include outsiders from
the start
13 Whether born in your household or bought with your money, they
must be circumcised. My covenant in your flesh is to be an everlasting
covenant.
Born or bought - the total inclusion of the "natural and wild olive
branch"
My covenant / your flesh - the promises are Gods, the carriers are
Mens Page 32

My covenant / your flesh - the promises are Gods, the carriers are
humans
14 Any uncircumcised male, who has not been circumcised in the flesh,
will be cut off from his people; he has broken my covenant.”
Cut off - the double meaning "cut off skin or cut off from people"
Broken my covenant - this is the same language used of sinning
later in the OT
Takeaway points:
1. God's promises to Abraham are forever
2. Jesus is the "blessing" promised to the world from Abraham's line
3. Baptism is the symbol of the new covenant in the same way
4. Like Abraham, we are called to LIVE OUT our covenant
Mens Page 33

Men as Promise Fixers
Wednesday, May 3, 2023 2:20 PM
Genesis 17:15–27
Setting:
God has just given Abraham the sign of circumcision as the symbol of
being in covenant relationship with Him.
15 God also said to Abraham, “As for Sarai your wife, you are no longer
to call her Sarai; her name will be Sarah.
Sarai - "one who strives" possible allusion to Hagar
Sarah - "princess" one who gives birth to kings
16 I will bless her and will surely give you a son by her. I will bless her so
that she will be the mother of nations; kings of peoples will come from
her.”
17 Abraham fell facedown; he laughed and said to himself, “Will a son
be born to a man a hundred years old? Will Sarah bear a child at the
age of ninety?”
Facedown - usually a sign of submission
Laughed - Abraham responds to with a lack of faith, or wonder and
awe
18 And Abraham said to God, “If only Ishmael might live under your
blessing!”
If only Ishmael - Abraham tries to "help" God by doing it his own
way
19 Then God said, “Yes, but your wife Sarah will bear you a son, and you
will call him Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him as an
everlasting covenant for his descendants after him.
Isaac - lit. "yits-haq" which means laughter in Hebrew
Mens Page 34

Isaac - lit. "yits-haq" which means laughter in Hebrew
I will establish - the covenant was in God's authority, not
Abraham's
20 And as for Ishmael, I have heard you: I will surely bless him; I will
make him fruitful and will greatly increase his numbers. He will be the
father of twelve rulers, and I will make him into a great nation.
As for Ishmael - God did hear Abraham, but didn't change His plans
for Isaac
21 But my covenant I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah will bear to
you by this time next year.”
This time next year - God was specific about the timing of the new
son
22 When he had finished speaking with Abraham, God went up from
him.
23 On that very day Abraham took his son Ishmael and all those born in
his household or bought with his money, every male in his household,
and circumcised them, as God told him.
That very day - Abraham's immediate obedience illustrates his faith
Every male - notice whether born or bought, all males in the house
were cut
24 Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised,
25 and his son Ishmael was thirteen;
26 Abraham and his son Ishmael were both circumcised on that very
day.
27 And every male in Abraham’s household, including those born in his
Mens Page 35

27 And every male in Abraham’s household, including those born in his
household or bought from a foreigner, was circumcised with him.
Abraham is fully obedient to the Lord's direction in v12.
Takeaways:
1. God's promises are His to fulfill, not ours to fix
2. Abraham's "short cut" also "short changed" Sarah's blessing
3. Trusting God is waiting while believing
Mens Page 36

Men as Righteous Just Leaders
Wednesday, June 7, 2023 3:20 PM
Genesis 18:16–33 (NIV)
Setting: The previous two scenes focus on the Abrahamic
Covenant being fulfilled through Isaac and not Ishmael.
The covenant is the context of this conversation.
16 When the men got up to leave, they looked down toward
Sodom, and Abraham walked along with them to see them on
their way.
17 Then the LORD said, “Shall I hide from Abraham what I am
about to do?
18 Abraham will surely become a great and powerful nation,
and all nations on earth will be blessed through him.
1: Abraham will surely become a great & powerful
nation…
The revelation of God's coming actions were due to his
election of Abraham as the progenitor of a people who
will bring blessing
19 For I have chosen him, so that he will direct his children and
his household after him to keep the way of the LORD by doing
what is right and just, so that the LORD will bring about for
Abraham what he has promised him.”
Mens Page 37

So that he will direct his children and his household…
What is right and just…
This entire conversation is so that God can teach
Abraham the way in which he is expected to lead his
family.
Abraham is about to lead the family that will become
the nation founded on righteousness and justice.
This passage is about Abraham's lesson, not his prayer
life.
20 Then the LORD said, “The outcry against Sodom and
Gomorrah is so great and their sin so grievous
The outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is go great…
The "outcry" is the call for the justice in the face of
unrighteousness. A holy God is only being who can
JUSTLY judge sin. The sin of Sodom was ready to be
judged
21 that I will go down and see if what they have done is as bad
as the outcry that has reached me. If not, I will know.”
I will go down and see…
God did not need to "go down and see" as He is fully
omniscient and omnipresent. This is called
ANTHROPOMORPHISM and is using a human
description (sight) to describe a Godly action.
Mens Page 38

description (sight) to describe a Godly action.
22 The men turned away and went toward Sodom, but
Abraham remained standing before the LORD.
23 Then Abraham approached him and said: “Will you sweep
away the righteous with the wicked?
Will you sweep away the righteous with the wicked?
God is teaching Abraham about justice. Abraham is
asking:
Will God judge (kill) the righteous along with the
wicked?
Is God just in judging sin? (Yes.)
Is the proper penalty for sin death? (Yes.)
So are there ANY "non-sinful" people in Sodom?
(No.)
Is it just to kill the righteous because of the sinful?
(No.)
Is it just to spare the sinful because of the righteous?
(No.)
24 What if there are fifty righteous people in the city? Will you
really sweep it away and not spare the place for the sake of the
fifty righteous people in it?
25 Far be it from you to do such a thing—to kill the righteous
Mens Page 39

25 Far be it from you to do such a thing—to kill the righteous
with the wicked, treating the righteous and the wicked alike.
Far be it from you! Will not the Judge of all the earth do right?”
26 The LORD said, “If I find fifty righteous people in the city of
Sodom, I will spare the whole place for their sake.”
27 Then Abraham spoke up again: “Now that I have been so
bold as to speak to the Lord, though I am nothing but dust and
ashes,
28 what if the number of the righteous is five less than fifty?
Will you destroy the whole city for lack of five people?” “If I find
forty-five there,” he said, “I will not destroy it.”
29 Once again he spoke to him, “What if only forty are found
there?” He said, “For the sake of forty, I will not do it.”
30 Then he said, “May the Lord not be angry, but let me speak.
What if only thirty can be found there?” He answered, “I will not
do it if I find thirty there.”
31 Abraham said, “Now that I have been so bold as to speak to
the Lord, what if only twenty can be found there?” He said, “For
the sake of twenty, I will not destroy it.”
32 Then he said, “May the Lord not be angry, but let me speak
just once more. What if only ten can be found there?” He
answered, “For the sake of ten, I will not destroy it.”
33 When the LORD had finished speaking with Abraham, he left,
and Abraham returned home.
Mens Page 40

God's lesson to Abraham's early faith is this:
God and God alone is the righteous judge of sin. Only He can
judge because sin is an afront to Him.
God is also the one who chooses, blesses, and promises. Only
He can make one righteous by faith because He is the source of
righteousness.
Mens Page 41

Men as Culture Sponges
Wednesday, July 5, 2023 1:39 PM
Genesis 19:1–13 (NIV)
1 The two angels arrived at Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the
gateway of the city. When he saw them, he got up to meet them and bowed down
with his face to the ground.
Two angels - two that had just been with Abraham
Sodom - this is where we get the word "sodomy" from
Gateway of the city - center place of business and civics
Bowed - a sign of respect or reverence
2 “My lords,” he said, “please turn aside to your servant’s house. You can wash
your feet and spend the night and then go on your way early in the morning.”
“No,” they answered, “we will spend the night in the square.”
Your servant's house - Lot takes on the responsibility of hospitality
3 But he insisted so strongly that they did go with him and entered his house. He
prepared a meal for them, baking bread without yeast, and they ate.
Insisted strongly - Lot knew what the men of his city would do
4 Before they had gone to bed, all the men from every part of the city of Sodom—
both young and old—surrounded the house.
All the men - illustrating the whole city's wickedness
Young and old - the wickedness was generational
5 They called to Lot, “Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them
out to us so that we can have sex with them.”
Bring them out - Lot would have to violate his protection of them
Have sex - this story is 100% about homosexual gang rape
6 Lot went outside to meet them and shut the door behind him
7 and said, “No, my friends. Don’t do this wicked thing.
Mens Page 42

My friends - lit. "brother / tribesman" a term of relationship
Wicked thing - Lot understands their intentions are evil
8 Look, I have two daughters who have never slept with a man. Let me bring them
out to you, and you can do what you like with them. But don’t do anything to
these men, for they have come under the protection of my roof.”
Two daughters - two more people who Lot needed to protect
Never slept with a man - illustrates the sexual nature of the request
9 “Get out of our way,” they replied. “This fellow came here as a foreigner, and
now he wants to play the judge! We’ll treat you worse than them.” They kept
bringing pressure on Lot and moved forward to break down the door.
As a foreigner - the people of Sodom still saw Lot as an outsider
Play the judge - "judgment" refers to the claim of evil for the actions
Break down the door - this is forcible gang rape at its worst
10 But the men inside reached out and pulled Lot back into the house and shut the
door.
Pulled inside - Lot is protected by those he was protecting
11 Then they struck the men who were at the door of the house, young and old,
with blindness so that they could not find the door.
Blindness - men are often aroused by sight
Lot had lived for some time in Sodom, apparently at ease with the culture. So
much had seeped into him, that he offered his daughters as fodder for the lustful
crowd.
How much does culture vs scripture define our decisions and actions?
Mens Page 43

Men as Imperfect Prophets
Wednesday, August 2, 2023 3:39 PM
Genesis 20:1–18 (NIV)
1 Now Abraham moved on from there into the region of the Negev and lived
between Kadesh and Shur. For a while he stayed in Gerar,
Gerar - the land of the Philistines; pagan people
2 and there Abraham said of his wife Sarah, “She is my sister.” Then Abimelek king
of Gerar sent for Sarah and took her.
My sister - second time he has used this lie (Gen 12:13)
3 But God came to Abimelek in a dream one night and said to him, “You are as
good as dead because of the woman you have taken; she is a married woman.”
God came - God spoke directly to a pagan king
Married woman - God defined & defends marriage
4 Now Abimelek had not gone near her, so he said, “Lord, will you destroy an
innocent nation?
Lord - lit. /adon/ "Lord, Master, Sovereign"
Innocent nation - same prayer as Abraham at Sodom
5 Did he not say to me, ‘She is my sister,’ and didn’t she also say, ‘He is my
brother’? I have done this with a clear conscience and clean hands.”
He/she say - Abimelek points the blame at Abraham/Sarah
Clean hands - no moral culpability here
6 Then God said to him in the dream, “Yes, I know you did this with a clear
conscience, and so I have kept you from sinning against me. That is why I did not
let you touch her.
Yes, I know - God recognizes Abimelek's innocence
I have kept you - God restricted his choices to protect him
7 Now return the man’s wife, for he is a prophet, and he will pray for you and you
Mens Page 44

7 Now return the man’s wife, for he is a prophet, and he will pray for you and you
will live. But if you do not return her, you may be sure that you and all who belong
to you will die.”
Man's wife - God's view of marriage: one man & one woman
He is a prophet - God's covenant is not swayed by Abraham's sin
8 Early the next morning Abimelek summoned all his officials, and when he told
them all that had happened, they were very much afraid.
Early the next morning - illustrates priority; no waiting to obey
Very much afraid - they are afraid of God, not Abraham
9 Then Abimelek called Abraham in and said, “What have you done to us? How
have I wronged you that you have brought such great guilt upon me and my
kingdom? You have done things to me that should never be done.”
What have you done? - Abraham is the morally guilty one
Upon me and my kingdom - Abimelek experienced the consequences
10 And Abimelek asked Abraham, “What was your reason for doing this?”
Your reason - Abimelek wants to know WHY Abraham did this
11 Abraham replied, “I said to myself, ‘There is surely no fear of God in this place,
and they will kill me because of my wife.’
Said to myself - Abraham made two wrong assumptions:
1. There is no fear of God in these people
2. Deception is the only way out of danger
12 Besides, she really is my sister, the daughter of my father though not of my
mother; and she became my wife.
She really is - Abraham is trying to escape guilt; refusing the blame
13 And when God had me wander from my father’s household, I said to her, ‘This
is how you can show your love to me: Everywhere we go, say of me, “He is my
brother.” ’ ”
God made me wander - Abraham knows God sent him away
My father's household - Abraham's pagan roots are showing
Mens Page 45

14 Then Abimelek brought sheep and cattle and male and female slaves and gave
them to Abraham, and he returned Sarah his wife to him.
Cattle and slaves - both considered wealth at this time
15 And Abimelek said, “My land is before you; live wherever you like.”
My land is before you - Abraham is able to live in the land
16 To Sarah he said, “I am giving your brother a thousand shekels of silver. This is
to cover the offense against you before all who are with you; you are completely
vindicated.”
To Sarah… brother - Abimelek calls Abraham her "brother"
17 Then Abraham prayed to God, and God healed Abimelek, his wife and his
female slaves so they could have children again,
Abraham prayed to God - Abraham still operates as the prophet
18 for the LORD had kept all the women in Abimelek’s household from conceiving
because of Abraham’s wife Sarah.
The LORD - Covenant name for God
Kept… from conceiving - consequences kept Abimelek from sinning
The Takeaway:
Like Abraham, our mistakes do not dissuade our mission. As men, we must shake
it off, step up, and be the imperfect prophets in our homes and lives.
Mens Page 46

Men as Friction Fighters
Wednesday, September 6, 2023 1:01 PM
Genesis 21:1–21 (NIV)
1 Now the LORD was gracious to Sarah as he had said, and the LORD
did for Sarah what he had promised.
Did for Sarah - God promised a son in Gen 17:16
2 Sarah became pregnant and bore a son to Abraham in his old age, at
the very time God had promised him.
Promised them - Isaac is the "son of promise"
3 Abraham gave the name Isaac to the son Sarah bore him.
Isaac - the name means "he laughs",
they both laughed at God's promise (Gen 17:17, 18:12)
4 When his son Isaac was eight days old, Abraham circumcised him, as
God commanded him.
Circumcised - as part of God's covenant with Abraham (Gen
17:9-14)
5 Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to
him.
100 years old - Abraham was 75 when God promised Isaac (Gen
12:4)
This means he waited 25 years of Isaac!
6 Sarah said, “God has brought me laughter, and everyone who hears
about this will laugh with me.”
Laughter - an interesting play on the name, she now laughs from
Mens Page 47

Laughter - an interesting play on the name, she now laughs from
joy
7 And she added, “Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would
nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age.”
8 The child grew and was weaned, and on the day Isaac was weaned
Abraham held a great feast.
Weaned - this refers to a "stepping out" from mom's direct
supervision and care, not just the transition from breast milk to
solid food. Usually 3 years of age.
9 But Sarah saw that the son whom Hagar the Egyptian had borne to
Abraham was mocking,
Mocking - play on words /sah-hakh/ sounds like /yit-sakh/
Ishmael is about 16 or 17
Isaac is around 3 years old
Strife between brothers is a re-occurring theme in Genesis
10 and she said to Abraham, “Get rid of that slave woman and her son,
for that woman’s son will never share in the inheritance with my son
Isaac.”
Never share - jealousy drives Sarah's actions
in the same way that doubt/fear drove her to choose
Hagar
Inheritance - it's always about the money… God already told
Abraham Ishmael would not be the "son of promise" (Gen 17:19)
11 The matter distressed Abraham greatly because it concerned his son.
Distressed - Abraham loved Ishmael, and had to live in the friction
Mens Page 48

12 But God said to him, “Do not be so distressed about the boy and your
slave woman. Listen to whatever Sarah tells you, because it is through
Isaac that your offspring will be reckoned.
Because - God allows Abraham to send them away because the
promise is from Issac, this is the focus of Abraham's call and faith,
to begin the nation set apart by and for God
13 I will make the son of the slave into a nation also, because he is your
offspring.”
Nation also - this is a providential act of God, not required by
covenant
14 Early the next morning Abraham took some food and a skin of water
and gave them to Hagar. He set them on her shoulders and then sent
her off with the boy. She went on her way and wandered in the Desert
of Beersheba.
15 When the water in the skin was gone, she put the boy under one of
the bushes.
16 Then she went off and sat down about a bowshot away, for she
thought, “I cannot watch the boy die.” And as she sat there, she began
to sob.
Hagar doesn't know or doesn't believe God will make Ishmael into a
nation
17 God heard the boy crying, and the angel of God called to Hagar from
heaven and said to her, “What is the matter, Hagar? Do not be afraid;
God has heard the boy crying as he lies there.
Angel of God - this is a theophany or an appearance of God in the
OT
God speaks to Hagar as He did before (Gen 16:7)
Mens Page 49

God speaks to Hagar as He did before (Gen 16:7)
18 Lift the boy up and take him by the hand, for I will make him into a
great nation.”
I will make - Ishmael's future is also promised by God
Here we see God's grace on those outside Covenant
community
19 Then God opened her eyes and she saw a well of water. So she went
and filled the skin with water and gave the boy a drink.
God provides water as He did before (Gen 16:14)
20 God was with the boy as he grew up. He lived in the desert and
became an archer.
21 While he was living in the Desert of Paran, his mother got a wife for
him from Egypt.
The Takeaway:
Abraham ultimately had to "reject" the "son of doubt" of the past in
order to fully commit to the "son of promise" God had made for the
future of his family.
• Ishmael is the fruit of trying to "help" God's plans through man's
schemes
• Ishmael was never the "son of promise" yet is rescued by God twice
and promised a future anyway
• The friction between wives is Abraham's fault, he could have told
Sarah "no" 16 years ago when she offered Hagar as a second wife
• Abraham had to "let go" of the ties to the mistakes of the past in
order to lead his family into the "promised" future God had in
store.
Mens Page 50

store.
Mens Page 51

Men as Test Takers
Wednesday, October 4, 2023 2:22 PM
Genesis 22:1–19 (NIV)
1 Some time later God tested Abraham. He said to him,
“Abraham!” “Here I am,” he replied.
God tested Abraham - this event is FROM God, FOR
Abraham
Here I am - Abraham admitted he is ready to obey
2 Then God said, “Take your son, your only son, whom you
love—Isaac—and go to the region of Moriah. Sacrifice him
there as a burnt offering on a mountain I will show you.”
Your only son - better translated "unique" son, the Son of
Promise
Sacrifice him there - this was normal for this time
3 Early the next morning Abraham got up and loaded his
donkey. He took with him two of his servants and his son Isaac.
When he had cut enough wood for the burnt offering, he set out
for the place God had told him about.
Early the next morning - Abraham didn't wait to obey
He set out - similar to 12:1 when Abram left home to follow
God
4 On the third day Abraham looked up and saw the place in the
distance.
5 He said to his servants, “Stay here with the donkey while I and
Mens Page 52

5 He said to his servants, “Stay here with the donkey while I and
the boy go over there. We will worship and then we will come
back to you.”
WE will / WE will - both of these are plural in the Hebrew!
Abraham knew the son of promise would return with him
6 Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering and placed it
on his son Isaac, and he himself carried the fire and the knife. As
the two of them went on together,
Placed the wood on his son - like Christ carrying His cross
7 Isaac spoke up and said to his father Abraham, “Father?”
“Yes, my son?” Abraham replied. “The fire and wood are here,”
Isaac said, “but where is the lamb for the burnt offering?”
Where is the lamb - Isaac knew how to give offerings to
God
8 Abraham answered, “God himself will provide the lamb for
the burnt offering, my son.” And the two of them went on
together.
God will provide - better translated "God is providing"
9 When they reached the place God had told him about,
Abraham built an altar there and arranged the wood on it. He
bound his son Isaac and laid him on the altar, on top of the
wood.
Bound his son - Isaac had to be willing, this is a huge part of
this story
Mens Page 53

this story
10 Then he reached out his hand and took the knife to slay his
son.
11 But the angel of the LORD called out to him from heaven,
“Abraham! Abraham!” “Here I am,” he replied.
12 “Do not lay a hand on the boy,” he said. “Do not do anything
to him. Now I know that you fear God, because you have not
withheld from me your son, your only son.”
Now I know - of course God's foreknowledge saw, but it is
now realized through Abraham's obedience
13 Abraham looked up and there in a thicket he saw a ram
caught by its horns. He went over and took the ram and
sacrificed it as a burnt offering instead of his son.
Looked up - like Hagar and the well with Ishmael
14 So Abraham called that place The LORD Will Provide. And to
this day it is said, “On the mountain of the LORD it will be
provided.”
15 The angel of the LORD called to Abraham from heaven a
second time
16 and said, “I swear by myself, declares the LORD, that
because you have done this and have not withheld your son,
your only son,
17 I will surely bless you and make your descendants as
Mens Page 54

17 I will surely bless you and make your descendants as
numerous as the stars in the sky and as the sand on the
seashore. Your descendants will take possession of the cities of
their enemies,
Descendants - God promised descendants THRU Isaac
18 and through your offspring all nations on earth will be
blessed, because you have obeyed me.”
Thru your offspring - Jesus is the descendant of Isaac
19 Then Abraham returned to his servants, and they set off
together for Beersheba. And Abraham stayed in Beersheba.
Keys to understand:
1: This is a test (v1)
2: The object of the test is Isaac who is the Son of Promise (v2)
3: Abraham's trust and obedience to God's Word is being tested
4:
Mens Page 55

Men as Cultural Negotiators
Wednesday, November 1, 2023 1:47 PM
Genesis 23:1–20
1 Sarah lived to be a hundred and twenty-seven years old.
127 years old - Isaac is now 37 years old (Gen 17:17)
2 She died at Kiriath Arba (that is, Hebron) in the land of
Canaan, and Abraham went to mourn for Sarah and to weep
over her.
That is, Hebron - Abraham, Sarah, Isaac, Rebekah, Jacob,
and Leah are all buried in the same tomb mentioned here.
Mourn / weep - a godly man doesn't shy from his emotions
3 Then Abraham rose from beside his dead wife and spoke to
the Hittites. He said,
4 “I am a foreigner and stranger among you. Sell me some
property for a burial site here so I can bury my dead.”
Foreigner and stranger - While Abraham has already been
deeded the land by God, the culture around him would not
have agreed with his worldview. Abraham describes himself
in THEIR TERMS, not God's.
Sell me some property - Abraham purchases the land;
committing himself and his family to the promises of God.
Mens Page 56

committing himself and his family to the promises of God.
There is no "going back" to Mesopotamia.
Establishing a family burial site is an act of faith that God's
promise will come true, but not in his lifetime.
5 The Hittites replied to Abraham,
6 “Sir, listen to us. You are a mighty prince among us. Bury your
dead in the choicest of our tombs. None of us will refuse you his
tomb for burying your dead.”
Choicest of our tombs - They try to meet Abraham's need,
but don't understand the faith commitment behind his
actions.
Refuse you his tomb - in their first offer, they still retain
ancestral rights to the land, Abraham remains a foreigner.
7 Then Abraham rose and bowed down before the people of the
land, the Hittites.
Bowed down - Abraham is not worshiping them, but
showing them honor and respect. He is speaking to them
IN THEIR CULTURE, not bashing them over the head with
HIS.
8 He said to them, “If you are willing to let me bury my dead,
then listen to me and intercede with Ephron son of Zohar on my
behalf
If you are willing - Abraham starts with something they
already offered… allowing him to bury his wife in their land
Mens Page 57

already offered… allowing him to bury his wife in their land
9 so he will sell me the cave of Machpelah, which belongs to
him and is at the end of his field. Ask him to sell it to me for the
full price as a burial site among you.”
Sell me / belongs to him - Abraham speaks to the Hittites in
their language… business transaction.
Full price - Abraham does not ask for a discount
Burial site - Abraham is clear about his purpose and intent
10 Ephron the Hittite was sitting among his people and he
replied to Abraham in the hearing of all the Hittites who had
come to the gate of his city.
Gate of his city - the location is important as "the gate of
the city" is where government decisions are made and
business is transacted.
11 “No, my lord,” he said. “Listen to me; I give you the field, and
I give you the cave that is in it. I give it to you in the presence of
my people. Bury your dead.”
I give you the field - this is form of ancient near eastern
bargaining. He's not "giving it away" for nothing, but
offering it as a "gift" in exchange for something from
Abraham.
Presence of my people - Ephron knows he is speaking in
front of an audience!
Mens Page 58

12 Again Abraham bowed down before the people of the land
Again Abraham bowed - Abraham is going out of his way to
meet the Hittites where they are, and not assume his
worldview over theirs.
13 and he said to Ephron in their hearing, “Listen to me, if you
will. I will pay the price of the field. Accept it from me so I can
bury my dead there.”
I will pay the price - Abraham offers in the front of the
crowd to pay full price for the field. There is no
misunderstanding in his words.
14 Ephron answered Abraham,
15 “Listen to me, my lord; the land is worth four hundred
shekels of silver, but what is that between you and me? Bury
your dead.”
The land is worth… between friends - Ephron is very slick in
the way he offers the price and the land. He is requiring a
very high price at the same time sounding gracious to the
foreigner. This is middle easter hospitality and negotiating
at its best.
16 Abraham agreed to Ephron’s terms and weighed out for him
the price he had named in the hearing of the Hittites: four
hundred shekels of silver, according to the weight current
among the merchants.
17 So Ephron’s field in Machpelah near Mamre—both the field
Mens Page 59

17 So Ephron’s field in Machpelah near Mamre—both the field
and the cave in it, and all the trees within the borders of the
field—was deeded
18 to Abraham as his property in the presence of all the Hittites
who had come to the gate of the city.
Abraham agreed… deeded to Abraham - taking the offer,
Abraham pays the full price for the land at the city gate,
establishing a legally binding transfer of property. This is the
only part of the entire promised land Abraham ever got to
"see" his descendants own.
19 Afterward Abraham buried his wife Sarah in the cave in the
field of Machpelah near Mamre (which is at Hebron) in the land
of Canaan.
20 So the field and the cave in it were deeded to Abraham by
the Hittites as a burial site.
Deeded as a burial site - this is the establishment of the
"occupation" of the promised land. Abraham and his
descendants legally purchase the first piece of the land
deeded by God from the Hittites who would not have
respected Abraham's theological claim to the land.
In this way Abraham commits his family to the land and the
promise of God for his lineage. He also finds a way to deal
with a "non-believing" culture and keep his faith rather than
see them as at odds with one another… BUT it cost him.
How much are we willing to "pay" to find ways to work with
culture while honoring our legacy of faith?
Mens Page 60

culture while honoring our legacy of faith?
Mens Page 61

Men as Torch Passers
Wednesday, December 6, 2023 3:18 PM
Genesis 24:1–9 (NIV)
1 Abraham was now very old, and the LORD had blessed him in
every way.
Very old - age and wealth are both signs of God's favor
The LORD - the covenant name for God
Blessed him - bless/praise same word, blessed is the cause
praise
Abraham is preparing to "pass the torch" to the next
generation
2 He said to the senior servant in his household, the one in
charge of all that he had, “Put your hand under my thigh.
Senior servant - his most trusted servant; not an heir
In charge of all - Eliezer ran Abraham's estate
Hand under my thigh - the inner thigh represents the
"power of procreation" and the heritage of the patriarch's
lineage.
This is a "touch my nuts" moment…
Thankfully today we just say "raise your right hand"…
3 I want you to swear by the LORD, the God of heaven and the
God of earth, that you will not get a wife for my son from the
daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I am living,
Mens Page 62

daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I am living,
Swear by the Lord - meaning if you break this vow, may
God kill you
Not get a wife… from Canaanites - Abraham understood
the calling of God was live "set apart" or "different" of
"holy" from everyone else
Among… I am living - Abraham recognized he lived
"among" the Canaanites people, but was not "one" of them.
4 but will go to my country and my own relatives and get a wife
for my son Isaac.”
My country - the only possible people group is the line of
Nahor
5 The servant asked him, “What if the woman is unwilling to
come back with me to this land? Shall I then take your son back
to the country you came from?”
Woman is unwilling - this is a reasonable argument. What
daughter would go with a servant to marry a man sight-
unseen. Eliezer is attempting to plan and prepare for
obstacles to the task.
6 “Make sure that you do not take my son back there,”
Abraham said.
Do not take my son back there - this accomplishes two
things: (a) it ensures Isaac stays in the land God has lead
them to and given to them; (b) it is also a test of faith for
Rebecca. Is she a woman of faith?
Mens Page 63

Rebecca. Is she a woman of faith?
7 “The LORD, the God of heaven, who brought me out of my
father’s household and my native land and who spoke to me
and promised me on oath, saying, ‘To your offspring I will give
this land’—he will send his angel before you so that you can get
a wife for my son from there.
He will send - Abraham declares this is "God's will" and
therefore will be worked out by God's power to be
accomplished. Eliezer must now go "on faith" that God is at
work here.
8 If the woman is unwilling to come back with you, then you will
be released from this oath of mine. Only do not take my son
back there.”
If the woman is unwilling - Abraham gives Eliezer a way
out; if Rebekah is unwilling (ie, not a woman of faith) that
he is absolved from his oath.
9 So the servant put his hand under the thigh of his master
Abraham and swore an oath to him concerning this matter.
Under the thigh - the intimacy and surety of his oath is
uncomfortable
The Takeaway:
Abraham's preparation for "passing the torch" required his son
to marry a woman of faith, not from his surrounding culture.
This was the only wat the "people of faith" would continue.
Mens Page 64

How well do we prepare the next generation to live "by faith"?
Who are we preparing to "pass the torch" to?
Mens Page 65

MAN BY DESIGN
Wednesday, January 3, 2024 2:07 PM
IMAGE BEARER
Man is designed to bear the image of God.
Genesis 1:26–27
26 Then God said, “Let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness, so that
they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the livestock
and all the wild animals, and over all the creatures that move along the ground.”
27 So God created mankind in his own image, in the image of God he created
them; male and female he created them.
LEADER
Man is designed to represent God's leadership on earth.
Genesis 1:28
28 God blessed them and said to them, “Be fruitful and increase in number; fill
the earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky and
over every living creature that moves on the ground.”
SERVANT
Man is made to serve the Lord.
Genesis 2:15
15 The LORD God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and
take care of it.
DISCIPLE
Man is designed to learn from God.
Genesis 2:16–17
16 And the LORD God commanded the man, “You are free to eat from any tree in
the garden;
17 but you must not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, for
when you eat from it you will certainly die.”
HUSBAND
Man is designed to be a partner.
Genesis 2:18
The LORD God said, “It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper
suitable for him.”
FATHER
Mens Page 66

FATHER
Man is designed for intimacy and family.
Genesis 2:24–25
24 That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife, and
they become one flesh.
25 Adam and his wife were both naked, and they felt no shame.
-----
IMAGE BEARER
Man is designed to bear the image of God.
Genesis 1:26–27
26 Then God said, “Let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness, so that they
may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the livestock and all
the wild animals, and over all the creatures that move along the ground.”
27 So God created mankind in his own image, in the image of God he created
them; male and female he created them.
Being an image bearer of God means to carry the image of God's character,
spiritual life, and authority into the world He created.
I regularly think of myself as an example of God's character.
I regularly consider the spiritual weight of my choices and decisions before I
make them.
I regularly view myself as an ambassador for King Jesus until He returns.
I regularly look for ways to represent Christ in my everyday life and family.
LEADER
Man is designed to represent God's leadership on earth.
Genesis 1:28
28 God blessed them and said to them, “Be fruitful and increase in number; fill the
earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky and over
every living creature that moves on the ground.”
The fruitful multiplication was for the purpose of leading creation to obey
God.
I view myself as a spiritual leader.
It is my job to lead my family and others to obey the Lord.
I work at growing in my spiritual leadership.
I look for opportunities to lead others closer to Christ.
Mens Page 67

SERVANT
Man is made to serve the Lord.
Genesis 2:15
15 The LORD God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and
take care of it.
I view myself as a servant and God as my boss
The skills and abilities I use to produce work come from God first.
All provision comes from God, because He gave me the job.
My work is my worship because I do to honor God.
DISCIPLE
Man is designed to learn from God.
Genesis 2:16–17
16 And the LORD God commanded the man, “You are free to eat from any tree in
the garden;
17 but you must not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, for when
you eat from it you will certainly die.”
I cannot grow without learning more from God's Word.
I regularly correct my opinions to match the Bible's teaching.
I use the Bible, instead of culture or opinion, to determine what's right.
I am currently studying and learning something new about God.
HUSBAND
Man is designed to be a partner.
Genesis 2:18
The LORD God said, “It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper
suitable for him.”
The word "helper" means equal partner. BOTH Man and Woman are
image-bearers.
I am or am working on becoming a God-focused husband.
I am helping or preparing to help my wife grow in her faith.
I am or am working on making room in my life for a partner.
I am working on becoming a better partner.
FATHER
Mens Page 68

FATHER
Man is designed for intimacy and family.
Genesis 2:24–25
24 That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife, and
they become one flesh.
25 Adam and his wife were both naked, and they felt no shame.
The nuclear family is God's chosen instrument for developing new image-
bearers.
I actively work to divide intimacy from lustful selfishness.
I am or am working on becoming a God-focused father.
I am learning about communication and intimacy.
I actively control my thoughts about women who are not my wife.
Mens Page 69

Men as Chosen Servants
Wednesday, February 7, 2024 2:28 PM
Genesis 25:19–27 (NIV)
19 This is the account of the family line of Abraham’s son Isaac.
Abraham became the father of Isaac,
This is the account of - a repeated division in Genesis,
begins a new section or story
The focus now shifts from Abraham, to the "son of promise"
Isaac
20 and Isaac was forty years old when he married Rebekah
daughter of Bethuel the Aramean from Paddan Aram and sister
of Laban the Aramean.
Forty years old - the timeline "fast forwards" to the
relevant parts
Married Rebekah - introduced in the previous section
Daughter of Bethuel - from the family of Abraham
21 Isaac prayed to the LORD on behalf of his wife, because she
was childless. The LORD answered his prayer, and his wife
Rebekah became pregnant.
Isaac prayed - Isaac's prayers are the solutions to their
childlessness
Mens Page 70

She was childless - this is a problem, both for their financial
and social status, but also for the fulfillment of the
Abrahamic promise of a "mighty nation" to come from
Abraham THRU Isaac!
The LORD answered the prayer - the covenant making God
answers the prayer
22 The babies jostled each other within her, and she said, “Why
is this happening to me?” So she went to inquire of the LORD.
The babies jostled - she doesn't know there are two babies
Why is this happening to me - she is concerned about the
movement
Inquire of the LORD - Rebekah asked the covenant-making
God
23 The LORD said to her, “Two nations are in your womb, and
two peoples from within you will be separated; one people will
be stronger than the other, and the older will serve the
younger.”
The LORD said - God is speaking prophetically and
declaratively
Two nations - both sons would become nations (Israel /
Edom)
Mens Page 71

Will be separated - interesting as they are both "jostling"
One will be stronger - by itself, this isn't prophetic, it's
logical
Older serve the younger - a common theme in Genesis,
God's way of illustrating that HE does not need to use
human conventional wisdom or cultural practices to
accomplish His plans.
It was common place at this time for the first born to be the
heir and prominent child. The latter children were less
important. God does the reverse to illustrate His divine
choosing.
24 When the time came for her to give birth, there were twin
boys in her womb.
When the time came - God spoke all of this BEFORE the
boys were born
Twin boys in her womb - the evidence illustrates the truth
of God's words
25 The first to come out was red, and his whole body was like a
hairy garment; so they named him Esau.
First to come out - this is Esau, the older brother
Esau - may be a play on words with the word "hairy"
Mens Page 72

26 After this, his brother came out, with his hand grasping
Esau’s heel; so he was named Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old
when Rebekah gave birth to them.
After this - clearly illustrating that Jacob is the YOUNGER
brother
Hand grasping Esau's heel - a description of "jostling"
Jacob - sounds very similar to the word 'heel' which later
would mean "one who trips another up" or "a deceiver"
27 The boys grew up, and Esau became a skillful hunter, a man
of the open country, while Jacob was content to stay at home
among the tents.
The boys grew up - again the passage of time speeds up,
details during this time aren't relevant to the divine
narrative
1. God's "story of faith" isn't the same in every season of our
lives. How do you recognize the moments God is doing
something?
2. God chose Jacob and not Esau before they were ever born.
Mens Page 73

Men as Present or Future
Wednesday, March 6, 2024 1:39 PM
Genesis 25:27–34 (NIV)
27 The boys grew up, and Esau became a skillful hunter, a man
of the open country, while Jacob was content to stay at home
among the tents.
Boys grew up - fast forward, time passed and then focused
here
Esau, skillful hinter - this time he fell into the trap
Jacob, stay at home - a domestic man
28 Isaac, who had a taste for wild game, loved Esau, but
Rebekah loved Jacob.
Isaac… loved Esau - paternal favoritism
Rebekah… loved Jacob - maternal favoritism
Parental favoritism is a theme in Genesis
29 Once when Jacob was cooking some stew, Esau came in from
the open country, famished.
Once - this is a "moment in time" in their lives.
How many "Random" moments would be want to be
judged by?
Esau, from open country - Esau was doing his role in the
country
Mens Page 74

country
Jacob was cooking stew - Jacob was doing his role at home
30 He said to Jacob, “Quick, let me have some of that red stew!
I’m famished!” (That is why he was also called Edom.)
I’m famished - Esau is being directed by his physical desire
to eat
Red stew - the color of the lentils, red=Edom; hence his
descendants
31 Jacob replied, “First sell me your birthright.”
First, sell me - Jacob valued the brithright.
No deception here. Jacob is being plain.
The birthright - this could be the double-inheritance, or the
position of prominence in the clan. Scholars disagree on its
exact nature.
What is clear is it is a future inheritance, not a present
offering
32 “Look, I am about to die,” Esau said. “What good is the
birthright to me?”
About to die - Esau is consumed by his physical hunger
Mens Page 75

What good - Esau devalues the future inheritance
33 But Jacob said, “Swear to me first.” So he swore an oath to
him, selling his birthright to Jacob.
Swear to me first - Jacob values the future more than his
brother
Selling his birthright - selling inheritances was common at
this time
34 Then Jacob gave Esau some bread and some lentil stew. He
ate and drank, and then got up and left. So Esau despised his
birthright.
Bread & lentil stew - the immediate physical desire for food
was met
Despised his birthright - did not value it
Overvaluing present circumstances will cause an undervaluing
of future inheritance.
Valuing future inheritance will give perspective to present
challenges.
Which way do you see your life?
Do you view the present in terms of the future
OR
Mens Page 76

OR
Do you view the future in terms of the present?
Mens Page 77

Men as Well Diggers
Wednesday, April 3, 2024 2:09 PM
Genesis 26:12–33 (NIV)
12 Isaac planted crops in that land and the same year reaped a
hundredfold, because the LORD blessed him.
Same year / hundredfold - God's blessing, despite
disobedience
13 The man became rich, and his wealth continued to grow until
he became very wealthy.
Rich / wealth - not just monetary abundance, but also
influence
14 He had so many flocks and herds and servants that the
Philistines envied him.
So many… envied - God's blessing caused envy from others
15 So all the wells that his father’s servants had dug in the time
of his father Abraham, the Philistines stopped up, filling them
with earth.
Wells from Abraham - symbolically, trying to "disconnect"
Isaac from the inherited blessing from his father; still
focused on earthly causes for Isaac's wealth, not God's
blessing
16 Then Abimelek said to Isaac, “Move away from us; you have
become too powerful for us.”
Mens Page 78

Move away - envy finally leads to action, they cast Isaac out
17 So Isaac moved away from there and encamped in the Valley
of Gerar, where he settled.
Isaac moved away - he does not fight to defend his "right"
to be there
Isaac is the "son of promise" whose descendants will inherit the
land, but he does not fight to take it from them. He chooses
peace and leaves.
18 Isaac reopened the wells that had been dug in the time of his
father Abraham, which the Philistines had stopped up after
Abraham died, and he gave them the same names his father
had given them.
Reopened the wells - Isaac worked to "redig" the wells of
his father
19 Isaac’s servants dug in the valley and discovered a well of
fresh water there.
20 But the herders of Gerar quarreled with those of Isaac and
said, “The water is ours!” So he named the well Esek, because
they disputed with him.
21 Then they dug another well, but they quarreled over that one
also; so he named it Sitnah.
Quarreled with - Isaac's servants dig two different wells and
hand them over without fighting.
Mens Page 79

hand them over without fighting.
22 He moved on from there and dug another well, and no one
quarreled over it. He named it Rehoboth, saying, “Now the
LORD has given us room and we will flourish in the land.”
Moved on from there - Isaac continues to "walk away" from
conflict
No one quarreled over it - Isaac kept moving until there
was peace
23 From there he went up to Beersheba.
24 That night the LORD appeared to him and said, “I am the
God of your father Abraham. Do not be afraid, for I am with
you; I will bless you and will increase the number of your
descendants for the sake of my servant Abraham.”
LORD appeared - the covenant God of Israel
25 Isaac built an altar there and called on the name of the
LORD. There he pitched his tent, and there his servants dug a
well.
Called on the name - Isaac worshipped the Lord
Pitched his tent - Isaac literally, planted his family on the
promises and worship of the Lord
26 Meanwhile, Abimelek had come to him from Gerar, with
Ahuzzath his personal adviser and Phicol the commander of his
forces.
Mens Page 80

forces.
Abimelek & Phicol - leaders of the Philistines, possibly the
same ones who dealt with Abraham in ch. 20
27 Isaac asked them, “Why have you come to me, since you
were hostile to me and sent me away?”
28 They answered, “We saw clearly that the LORD was with
you; so we said, ‘There ought to be a sworn agreement between
us’—between us and you. Let us make a treaty with you
LORD was with you - interesting the word used here is
God's covenant name, not the general word for "god"
29 that you will do us no harm, just as we did not harm you but
always treated you well and sent you away peacefully. And now
you are blessed by the LORD.”
30 Isaac then made a feast for them, and they ate and drank.
Made a feast - Isaac again chooses peace
31 Early the next morning the men swore an oath to each other.
Then Isaac sent them on their way, and they went away
peacefully.
32 That day Isaac’s servants came and told him about the well
they had dug. They said, “We’ve found water!”
Found water - Isaac's servants again find water, a necessary
life-giving source in the ancient near east. God's blessing is
not geographic.
Mens Page 81

not geographic.
33 He called it Shibah, and to this day the name of the town has
been Beersheba.
Beersheba - this explains the name of the town, linking the
town itself to the patriarchal history of the people of God
Isaac was wealthy, powerful, and blessed by God. Yet, he chose
peace and God's blessing went WITH him rather than He
fighting for "his place" in the promised land.
How often do we fight for what's ours instead of just "dig
another well" because God's blessings fills the wells!
Mens Page 82

Three Bad Men
Monday, April 29, 2024 8:46 AM
Most people put view this story as Jacob "stealing" from Esau. There are a few
other details that need to be remembered when reading this story.
God has already said to Rachel that the "older will serve the younger" selecting
Jacob as the one who will receive His blessing.
Isaac and Rebecca each have a favorite son.
Rebecca willingly participates in deceiving her husband.
Jacob deceives his father.
While Jacob does deceive his father, He is not the only "wrong" person in this
story.
Also, the blessing being given in this story (in PB's opinion) already belongs to
Jacob for two reasons:
1. God chose Jacob before the boys were born
2. Esau sold his birthright to Jacob
Also, there are two "bookmarks" that encapsulate the story of the deception,
each focus on Esau's marriages to Canaanite women, something we know was not
fit for the inheritor of the covenant.
Genesis 26:34–35
[34] When Esau was forty years old, he married Judith daughter of Beeri the
Hittite, and also Basemath daughter of Elon the Hittite. [35] They were a source of
grief to Isaac and Rebekah.
AND
Genesis 28:8-9
[8] Esau then realized how displeasing the Canaanite women were to his father
Mens Page 83

[8] Esau then realized how displeasing the Canaanite women were to his father
Isaac; [9] so he went to Ishmael and married Mahalath, the sister of Nebaioth and
daughter of Ishmael son of Abraham, in addition to the wives he already had.
These bookends reveal that Esau cares more for his own personal pleasure and
life than to live in covenant relationship with God. This again shows his
unworthiness to inherit the covenant. Given all this, it is PB's opinion that Isaac is
actually in the wrong for trying to give the blessing to Esau in the first place! God
chose Jacob. Esau sold the birthright to Jacob. Esau's lifestyle does not reflect
covenant obedience.
Why then does Isaac try to give the blessing to Esau. I, PB, think it is because Esau
is his favorite, not because he should receive it.
Genesis 27:1-28:7
1 When Isaac was old and his eyes were so weak that he could no longer see, he
called for Esau his older son and said to him, “My son.” “Here I am,” he answered.
When Isaac as old - this prepares for the transition of focus from Isaac to
Jacob
Eyes were so weak - this prepares for the deception explaining his poor sight
He called for Esau - Isaac called for Esau directly, Esau was his choice
2 Isaac said, “I am now an old man and don’t know the day of my death.
3 Now then, get your equipment—your quiver and bow—and go out to the open
country to hunt some wild game for me.
Go… open country - Esau is Isaac's favorite because he is a hunter; Isaac
loves wild game
4 Prepare me the kind of tasty food I like and bring it to me to eat, so that I may
give you my blessing before I die.”
I may give you - Isaac intends to give his blessing to Esau (this is wrong in
PB's view)
5 Now Rebekah was listening as Isaac spoke to his son Esau. When Esau left for
the open country to hunt game and bring it back,
Mens Page 84

the open country to hunt game and bring it back,
Rebekah was listening - reminds us of Sarai listening when God spoke to
Abraham
6 Rebekah said to her son Jacob, “Look, I overheard your father say to your
brother Esau,
Her son Jacob - this illustrates the "favorite game" between Isaac and
Rebekah
7 ‘Bring me some game and prepare me some tasty food to eat, so that I may give
you my blessing in the presence of the LORD before I die.’
8 Now, my son, listen carefully and do what I tell you:
9 Go out to the flock and bring me two choice young goats, so I can prepare some
tasty food for your father, just the way he likes it.
I can prepare - Rebekah prepares the food in place of Esau
The way he likes it - Rebekah knows how Isaac likes his food
10 Then take it to your father to eat, so that he may give you his blessing before
he dies.”
Take it to your father - this is first time Jacob sees he will be deceiving his
dad
Give you his blessing - Rebekah's motivation to getting the blessing for Jacob
11 Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, “But my brother Esau is a hairy man while I
have smooth skin.
But my brother - Jacob could have been viewed as innocently going along,
until this verse. Clearly, he understands the deception that is being planned
and is helping to work it out.
12 What if my father touches me? I would appear to be tricking him and would
bring down a curse on myself rather than a blessing.”
13 His mother said to him, “My son, let the curse fall on me. Just do what I say; go
Mens Page 85

13 His mother said to him, “My son, let the curse fall on me. Just do what I say; go
and get them for me.”
Curse fall on me - Rebekah is fully committed to making sure her "son" is
blessed
14 So he went and got them and brought them to his mother, and she prepared
some tasty food, just the way his father liked it.
15 Then Rebekah took the best clothes of Esau her older son, which she had in the
house, and put them on her younger son Jacob.
Best clothes of Esau - Jacob deceives his father with his brother's "best
clothes" and will himself be deceived by his own sons later using the "best
clothes" of their brother Joseph
16 She also covered his hands and the smooth part of his neck with the goatskins.
17Then she handed to her son Jacob the tasty food and the bread she had made.
18He went to his father and said, “My father.” “Yes, my son,” he answered. “Who
is it?”
19Jacob said to his father, “I am Esau your firstborn. I have done as you told me.
Please sit up and eat some of my game, so that you may give me your blessing.”
I am Esau - there is no way around it, this is wrong. Even if Isaac is wrong for
going against what he knew God's plans were, that does not justify this
intentional lying deception. There is no "two wrongs make a right" in the
Kingdom of God.
20Isaac asked his son, “How did you find it so quickly, my son?” “The LORD your
God gave me success,” he replied.
21 Then Isaac said to Jacob, “Come near so I can touch you, my son, to know
whether you really are my son Esau or not.”
22 Jacob went close to his father Isaac, who touched him and said, “The voice is
the voice of Jacob, but the hands are the hands of Esau.”
Voice of Jacob - clearly, Isaac's hearing was still working, but he did not trust
it
Mens Page 86

23 He did not recognize him, for his hands were hairy like those of his brother
Esau; so he proceeded to bless him.
24 “Are you really my son Esau?” he asked. “I am,” he replied.
25 Then he said, “My son, bring me some of your game to eat, so that I may give
you my blessing.” Jacob brought it to him and he ate; and he brought some wine
and he drank.
26 Then his father Isaac said to him, “Come here, my son, and kiss me.”
Come here my son - Isaac is weary of which son and finds a second way to
test it
27 So he went to him and kissed him. When Isaac caught the smell of his clothes,
he blessed him and said, “Ah, the smell of my son is like the smell of a field that
the LORD has blessed.
Smell of his clothes - Rebekah prepared Jacob for this by giving him Esau's
clothes
28 May God give you heaven’s dew and earth’s richness— an abundance of grain
and new wine.
29 May nations serve you and peoples bow down to you. Be lord over your
brothers, and may the sons of your mother bow down to you. May those who
curse you be cursed and those who bless you be blessed.”
Blessed - this blessing encapsulates the Abrahamic Covenant in both
blessings from the land, a priority of people, and the curse/blessing
protection.
30 After Isaac finished blessing him, and Jacob had scarcely left his father’s
presence, his brother Esau came in from hunting.
After Isaac finished - there is no way to misunderstand, all of this took place
before Esau even returned from hunting
31 He too prepared some tasty food and brought it to his father. Then he said to
him, “My father, please sit up and eat some of my game, so that you may give me
your blessing.”
Mens Page 87

32 His father Isaac asked him, “Who are you?” “I am your son,” he answered,
“your firstborn, Esau.”
33 Isaac trembled violently and said, “Who was it, then, that hunted game and
brought it to me? I ate it just before you came and I blessed him—and indeed he
will be blessed!”
Trembled violently - Isaac is angry. He is shaking he is so angry.
34 When Esau heard his father’s words, he burst out with a loud and bitter cry and
said to his father, “Bless me—me too, my father!”
Loud and bitter cry - Esau is likewise angry beyond words
35 But he said, “Your brother came deceitfully and took your blessing.”
Your brother came - Isaac knows exactly who took the blessing
36 Esau said, “Isn’t he rightly named Jacob? This is the second time he has taken
advantage of me: He took my birthright, and now he’s taken my blessing!” Then
he asked, “Haven’t you reserved any blessing for me?”
Rightly named Jacob - Jacob means "deceiver" in ancient Hewbrew
37 Isaac answered Esau, “I have made him lord over you and have made all his
relatives his servants, and I have sustained him with grain and new wine. So what
can I possibly do for you, my son?”
38 Esau said to his father, “Do you have only one blessing, my father? Bless me
too, my father!” Then Esau wept aloud.
39 His father Isaac answered him, “Your dwelling will be away from the earth’s
richness, away from the dew of heaven above.
40 You will live by the sword and you will serve your brother. But when you grow
restless, you will throw his yoke from off your neck.”
41 Esau held a grudge against Jacob because of the blessing his father had given
him. He said to himself, “The days of mourning for my father are near; then I will
kill my brother Jacob.”
Held a grudge - clearly, Esau still felt like he deserved the blessing
Mens Page 88

Held a grudge - clearly, Esau still felt like he deserved the blessing
42 When Rebekah was told what her older son Esau had said, she sent for her
younger son Jacob and said to him, “Your brother Esau is planning to avenge
himself by killing you.
Killing you - Esau's plan to take the blessing back is to kill Jacob, again, this is
not a covenantal perspective, it's a selfish one. He sold his birthright to Jacob
for a bowl of stew, and now is ready to kill him to get it back.
43 Now then, my son, do what I say: Flee at once to my brother Laban in Harran.
44 Stay with him for a while until your brother’s fury subsides.
Flee/stay - because of their deception, this is last time Jacob will see his
mother
45 When your brother is no longer angry with you and forgets what you did to
him, I’ll send word for you to come back from there. Why should I lose both of you
in one day?”
46 Then Rebekah said to Isaac, “I’m disgusted with living because of these Hittite
women. If Jacob takes a wife from among the women of this land, from Hittite
women like these, my life will not be worth living.”
If Jacob takes a wife - Rebekah lays up a perfectly good reason for Isaac to
send Jacob away, to get a wife from his own people. This is another example
of God working out his plans despite human sinfulness.
1 So Isaac called for Jacob and blessed him. Then he commanded him: “Do not
marry a Canaanite woman.
Do not marry - this is the same instruction Abraham gave to Isaac, the son of
promise. Isaac now requires the same for Jacob. There is an illusion here to
not being "unequally yoked" or to be married to someone of a different faith.
The covenant carriers must be in step with their wives as they follow God's
directions.
2 Go at once to Paddan Aram, to the house of your mother’s father Bethuel. Take
a wife for yourself there, from among the daughters of Laban, your mother’s
brother.
3 May God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and increase your numbers
Mens Page 89

3 May God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and increase your numbers
until you become a community of peoples.
4 May he give you and your descendants the blessing given to Abraham, so that
you may take possession of the land where you now reside as a foreigner, the land
God gave to Abraham.”
May God bless you - here again we see the Abrahamic blessing featured in
the establishment of a people group, and the ownership of the land of
promise.
5 Then Isaac sent Jacob on his way, and he went to Paddan Aram, to Laban son of
Bethuel the Aramean, the brother of Rebekah, who was the mother of Jacob and
Esau.
The characters:
Esau: the selfish son - wants a something God has planned for someone else,
something he cared so little about before that he traded it for a bowl of stew. He
is also married to two Canaanite women at the beginning of the story and marries
a third after he sees his father doesn’t like it.
Jacob: the deceptive son - while Jacob is the "son of promise" who will in fact
inherit the covenantal relationship with God, this does not make his actions in this
story godly. God can and often does work through us in spite of our own
shortcomings. Jacob did wrong trying to do the right thing.
Isaac: the father with favoritism - despite the plan of God for Jacob, Isaac
chooses to bless Esau instead because he is "daddy's favorite". Like Esau, Isaac is
making a spiritual decision based on a physical hunger, in both cases for food.
Discussion question:
Which man do you feel you most identify with?
a: the selfish man who wants God to bless what he wants
b: the deceptive man who tries to do "God's will" his own way
c: the favoritist man who chooses to do what he wants in spite of God's plans?
Mens Page 90

Men as Promise Testers
Wednesday, June 5, 2024 3:00 PM
Setting:
This scene takes place "on the way" as Jacob, obeying his
father's command not to get a wife from the Canaanite women,
travels to Paddan Aram. Esau however, takes two more
Canaanite wives to displease his father.
Genesis 28:10–22
10 Jacob left Beersheba and set out for Harran.
Harran - the family home of Abraham
11 When he reached a certain place, he stopped for the night
because the sun had set. Taking one of the stones there, he put
it under his head and lay down to sleep.
A certain place - this was an "on the way" place
Sun had set - he stopped for the night, not to worship
12 He had a dream in which he saw a stairway resting on the
earth, with its top reaching to heaven, and the angels of God
were ascending and descending on it.
Had a dream - this is a biblical way for God to speak to his
servants, notably Joseph at the end of Genesis
Stairway - also translated "ladder"; the key representation
Mens Page 91

Stairway - also translated "ladder"; the key representation
is of God's authoritative activity working on behalf of His
people in His land
13 There above it stood the LORD, and he said: “I am the LORD,
the God of your father Abraham and the God of Isaac. I will give
you and your descendants the land on which you are lying.
This is the FIRST TIME God speaks to Jacob!
Stood above it - this denotes the authority of activity
The LORD - the covenant name of God
God of Abraham/Isaac - this is repeating the covenant
promises made to the two previous patriarchs
Give you… the land - the possession of the land has always
been a key component of the covenant between God and
His people
14 Your descendants will be like the dust of the earth, and you
will spread out to the west and to the east, to the north and to
the south. All peoples on earth will be blessed through you and
your offspring.
Dust of the earth - a component of the covenant
relationship with God
All people… blessed through you - a component of the
covenant relationship with God
Mens Page 92

covenant relationship with God
And your offspring - the covenant promise was inherited by
subsequent generations
15 I am with you and will watch over you wherever you go, and
I will bring you back to this land. I will not leave you until I have
done what I have promised you.”
I am with you and will watch over you - this is a promise
from God Himself to Jacob, not limited by land, but for
Jacob the man
I will bring you back - this is the second promise made from
God, not limited to the land, but to Jacob
I will not leave you until I have done - this is the third
promise made by God, not limited to the land, but to Jacob
the man
16 When Jacob awoke from his sleep, he thought, “Surely the
LORD is in this place, and I was not aware of it.”
The LORD - the covenant name for God
Is in this place - Jacob associated God's presence with the
place, which is normal for this time period
17 He was afraid and said, “How awesome is this place! This is
none other than the house of God; this is the gate of heaven.”
Mens Page 93

none other than the house of God; this is the gate of heaven.”
Afraid… awesome - if something is truly "awesome" it must
inspire or engender a sense of reverent fear, this can also
be frightened fear as often is the case with angelic
appearances in Scripture
18 Early the next morning Jacob took the stone he had placed
under his head and set it up as a pillar and poured oil on top of
it.
Early the next morning - Jacob didn't wait to respond
Set it up as a pillar - a way to make a memorial
Poured oil on top - anointing it, setting it apart, making it
holy, set aside for God
19 He called that place Bethel, though the city used to be called
Luz.
Bethel - lit. /bay't - EL/ or "house/temple of God"
20 Then Jacob made a vow, saying, “If God will be with me and
will watch over me on this journey I am taking and will give me
food to eat and clothes to wear
Made a vow - Jacob is the only patriarch to do this
If God - Jacob placing his faith on what God has already
Mens Page 94

If God - Jacob placing his faith on what God has already
promised to do.
21 so that I return safely to my father’s household, then the
LORD will be my God
The LORD - the covenant name for God
Will be my God - will be my /elo-heem/
It is common at this time for different clans, tribes, and areas to
claim allegiance to differing "gods"
22 and this stone that I have set up as a pillar will be God’s
house, and of all that you give me I will give you a tenth.”
Will be God's house - this is a promise to set aside a place of
future worship for Yahweh
Give you a tenth - Jacob vows to tithe to God from all that
He will provide for him while in Paddan Aram
Two ways to see Jacob
A: Jacob is an unbeliever still. He is "testing" God in the
reverse way that God tested Abraham. However, He is
ready to dedicate his life to God should this "God" show
Himself to be real and faithful.
B: Jacob is already a believer. He worships God by making
Mens Page 95

B: Jacob is already a believer. He worships God by making
the memorial and commits himself to further acts of
worship in response to the anticipated faithfulness of God
while he is in Paddan Aram
Question:
Is it wrong to make a vow to God contingent on His
faithfulness? Have you ever done this?
Mens Page 96

Men as ??
Wednesday, July 3, 2024 3:36 PM
Genesis 29:14–30 (NIV)
14 Then Laban said to him, “You are my own flesh and blood.”
After Jacob had stayed with him for a whole month,
Own flesh and blood - Jacob was sent to find family
A whole month - ANE hospitality was greater than ours
15 Laban said to him, “Just because you are a relative of mine,
should you work for me for nothing? Tell me what your wages
should be.”
Work… for nothing - Laban's honor requires him to offer
Jacob payment for working for him
Tell me your wages - Jacob has the option to write his own
ticket
16 Now Laban had two daughters; the name of the older was
Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.
Older/younger - a reflection of Esau & Jacob
17 Leah had weak eyes, but Rachel had a lovely figure and was
beautiful.
Mens Page 97

Had weak eyes - this is a phrase implying she is "less than
stunning"
18 Jacob was in love with Rachel and said, “I’ll work for you
seven years in return for your younger daughter Rachel.”
In love with Rachel - Rachel is the clear favorite
19 Laban said, “It’s better that I give her to you than to some
other man. Stay here with me.”
Better to you - better because Jacob is "family"
20 So Jacob served seven years to get Rachel, but they seemed
like only a few days to him because of his love for her.
Seemed like - this is an illusion to how much he loves her
21 Then Jacob said to Laban, “Give me my wife. My time is
completed, and I want to make love to her.”
Give me my wife - Jacob is done waiting
22 So Laban brought together all the people of the place and
gave a feast.
Brought together all the people - marriage was and is a
public event witnessed by the people of the town
Mens Page 98

public event witnessed by the people of the town
23 But when evening came, he took his daughter Leah and
brought her to Jacob, and Jacob made love to her.
Took his daughter Leah - this is intentional deception on
Laban's part. It is also justice for Jacob's deception
24 And Laban gave his servant Zilpah to his daughter as her
attendant.
Servant Zilpah - this sets up the patriarchal narratives later
25 When morning came, there was Leah! So Jacob said to
Laban, “What is this you have done to me? I served you for
Rachel, didn’t I? Why have you deceived me?”
What have you done to me? - Jacob is now the recipient of
family deception
26 Laban replied, “It is not our custom here to give the younger
daughter in marriage before the older one.
It is not our custom - Laban's excuse comes too little too
late to be a real reason
27 Finish this daughter’s bridal week; then we will give you the
younger one also, in return for another seven years of work.”
Mens Page 99

WE will give you - Laban is trying to dodge blame by using
"we" for the community custom instead of his own
responsibility for the deception
28 And Jacob did so. He finished the week with Leah, and then
Laban gave him his daughter Rachel to be his wife.
Bridal week - a weeklong celebration of their marriage
29 Laban gave his servant Bilhah to his daughter Rachel as her
attendant.
Gave his servant - common practice at the time
30 Jacob made love to Rachel also, and his love for Rachel was
greater than his love for Leah. And he worked for Laban another
seven years.
Greater than his love - favoritism within family plagues the
patriarchal narratives in each generation
Laban's View:
1. Both of his daughters married off
2. 14 years of work from Jacob
Jacob's View:
1. Jacob gets to marry the woman he loves
2. Jacob has to endure deception and more work
Rachel's View:
Mens Page 100

Rachel's View:
1. Rachel gets to see Jacob is willing to work 14 years for her
2. Rachel has to celebrate her sister's marriage to her love
Leah's View:
1. Leah has to know she is the unwanted wife
2. Leah will be the mother of the priest and king lines
God's View:
1. God allows the deceiver to be poetically deceived
2. God will use all four women to birth the nation of Israel
Has anything happened to you that, at the time, didn't look
good, but ended up being a major point of God's action in your
life story?
Mens Page 101

Men as Blessed Fools
Wednesday, September 4, 2024 3:59 PM
Genesis 29:31–30:24 (NIV)
31 When the LORD saw that Leah was not loved, he enabled her
to conceive, but Rachel remained childless.
The LORD saw - the first section; puts "covenant" in view
Not loved - literally "not preferred"
He enabled - God is the giver of the blessing of life
32 Leah became pregnant and gave birth to a son. She named
him Reuben, for she said, “It is because the LORD has seen my
misery. Surely my husband will love me now.”
Reuben - a play on words "the Lord saw her misery"
33 She conceived again, and when she gave birth to a son she
said, “Because the LORD heard that I am not loved, he gave me
this one too.” So she named him Simeon.
Simeon - play on words "the Lord heard she was not loved"
34 Again she conceived, and when she gave birth to a son she
said, “Now at last my husband will become attached to me,
because I have borne him three sons.” So he was named Levi.
Levi - play on words "to become attached to"
35 She conceived again, and when she gave birth to a son she
said, “This time I will praise the LORD.” So she named him
Judah. Then she stopped having children.
Mens Page 102

Judah. Then she stopped having children.
Judah - play on words "Lord be praised"
1: God gave Leah four sons while she sought, but did not
receive the love from her husband she desired.
1 When Rachel saw that she was not bearing Jacob any
children, she became jealous of her sister. So she said to Jacob,
“Give me children, or I’ll die!”
Rachel saw - second section of the story
She became jealous - this is her motivation
2 Jacob became angry with her and said, “Am I in the place of
God, who has kept you from having children?”
Am I in the place - Jacob sees children as God's domain
3 Then she said, “Here is Bilhah, my servant. Sleep with her so
that she can bear children for me and I too can build a family
through her.”
Here is Bilhah - this is a common practice at this time
4 So she gave him her servant Bilhah as a wife. Jacob slept with
her,
5 and she became pregnant and bore him a son.
Became pregnant - a work of god, not manipulation of man
Mens Page 103

Became pregnant - a work of god, not manipulation of man
6 Then Rachel said, “God has vindicated me; he has listened to
my plea and given me a son.” Because of this she named him
Dan.
God has - she views this as God's response to her view that
she is "less than" because of lack of children
7 Rachel’s servant Bilhah conceived again and bore Jacob a
second son.
Second son - more reason to be loved by Jacob
8 Then Rachel said, “I have had a great struggle with my sister,
and I have won.” So she named him Naphtali.
Naphtali - word play on "fight with my sister"
2: God gave Rachel two sons while she fought with her sister
but never had the fertility she wanted.
9 When Leah saw that she had stopped having children, she
took her servant Zilpah and gave her to Jacob as a wife.
When Leah saw - third section
Stopped having children - again, intervention of God
10 Leah’s servant Zilpah bore Jacob a son.
11 Then Leah said, “What good fortune!” So she named him
Gad.
Mens Page 104

Gad.
Gad - play on words "good fortune"
12 Leah’s servant Zilpah bore Jacob a second son.
13 Then Leah said, “How happy I am! The women will call me
happy.” So she named him Asher.
Asher - play on words "blessing"
14 During wheat harvest, Reuben went out into the fields and
found some mandrake plants, which he brought to his mother
Leah. Rachel said to Leah, “Please give me some of your son’s
mandrakes.”
Mandrakes - considered to help with conception
15 But she said to her, “Wasn’t it enough that you took away
my husband? Will you take my son’s mandrakes too?” “Very
well,” Rachel said, “he can sleep with you tonight in return for
your son’s mandrakes.”
Sleep with you tonight - Jacob is "sold" to one wife from
another wife
16 So when Jacob came in from the fields that evening, Leah
went out to meet him. “You must sleep with me,” she said. “I
have hired you with my son’s mandrakes.” So he slept with her
that night.
17 God listened to Leah, and she became pregnant and bore
Jacob a fifth son.
Mens Page 105

Jacob a fifth son.
18 Then Leah said, “God has rewarded me for giving my servant
to my husband.” So she named him Issachar.
Issachar - play on words "my hire"
19 Leah conceived again and bore Jacob a sixth son.
20 Then Leah said, “God has presented me with a precious gift.
This time my husband will treat me with honor, because I have
borne him six sons.” So she named him Zebulun.
Zebulun - play on words "gift or honor"
21 Some time later she gave birth to a daughter and named her
Dinah.
Dinah - introducing the character for later
22 Then God remembered Rachel; he listened to her and
enabled her to conceive.
God remembered - the fourth section
Enabled her - the big point is pregnancy is from God
23 She became pregnant and gave birth to a son and said, “God
has taken away my disgrace.”
24 She named him Joseph, and said, “May the LORD add to me
another son.”
Mens Page 106

another son.”
Joseph - play on words "taken away my disgrace"
Another son - the whole unit ends looking forward
-----
Leah (4 Sons + 2 Sons + 1 Daughter): Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and
Judah; then Issachar and Zebulun; finally Dinah
Bilhah (2 sons): Dan and Naphtali
Zilpah (2 sons): Gad and Asher
Rachel (2 sons): Joseph and Benjamin
The driving force for the rivalry between Leah and Rachel is the
fight for affection from their husband. Don't forget they are
sisters too!
Leah wants to be loved as Rachel is.
Rachel wants to be fertile as Leah is.
Both view themselves as "less than" the other on differing
scales. This "less than" perspective drives their childbearing
competition.
God uses their rivalry to bless Jacob and provide many sons,
fulling His promise to Jacob through the selfish and jealous
actions of his "sister wives".
God allows both women to be driven by jealousy and
Mens Page 107

God allows both women to be driven by jealousy and
competition in order to accomplish His larger purpose of
blessing Jacob and building the "nation" that was promised to
Abraham. The names of the sons will be remembered
throughout time as the tribes of the budding family-nation.
Question: In what ways have you experienced God's direction
working through or out of less than righteous means? Did you
see it in the moment, or only after?
Mens Page 108

James 5 for Gerry
Tuesday, November 5, 2024 11:19 AM
Author: likely the older half-brother of Jesus. This James did not come
to faith in Jesus until after the resurrection and rose to a place of
leadership in the early Jerusalem church.
Date: James is likely the first New Testament book written, probably
before the Jerusalem council of AD 49
Recipients: early Jewish Christians living out their faith in a pagan
Gentile world
James 5:1–20 (NIV)
1: A prosperity focus breeds problems
1 Now listen, you rich people, weep and wail because of the misery that
is coming on you.
Rich people - people who are focused on wealth
Misery that is coming - living for money always invites misery
2 Your wealth has rotted, and moths have eaten your clothes.
Wealth has rotted - earthly wealth will always rot
Eaten your clothes - even something like clothing is a disposable
thing, don't get hung up on it
3 Your gold and silver are corroded. Their corrosion will testify against
you and eat your flesh like fire. You have hoarded wealth in the last
Mens Page 109

you and eat your flesh like fire. You have hoarded wealth in the last
days.
Gold and silver corroded - that which is "shiny" looses its luster
with time
Horded wealth - this speaks to the character of the "rich people"
being corrected in v1
Last days - all of the time since the ascension of Jesus
4 Look! The wages you failed to pay the workers who mowed your fields
are crying out against you. The cries of the harvesters have reached the
ears of the Lord Almighty.
Failed to pay - the character of the "rich people" who unjustly and
greedily withhold rightful pay in order to stay "rich"
Reached the ears - God values justice more than wealth
5 You have lived on earth in luxury and self-indulgence. You have
fattened yourselves in the day of slaughter.
Luxury and self-indulgence - the distraction of money is it causes
us to focus on ourselves rather than on using money as a resource
for God's work
6 You have condemned and murdered the innocent one, who was not
opposing you.
Innocent one - focusing on wealth over people breeds injustice in
our hearts and actions
Mens Page 110

2: Instruction to be patient
7 Be patient, then, brothers and sisters, until the Lord’s coming. See how
the farmer waits for the land to yield its valuable crop, patiently waiting
for the autumn and spring rains.
Patient - lit. remaining even-tempered while enduring difficult
circumstances
Until the Lord's coming - this is the "timeline" believers are
supposed to prepare for
Autumn and spring rains - in a farming culture, they knew to wait
until the "appointed time" for the help they needed to grow their
own food and survive
8 You too, be patient and stand firm, because the Lord’s coming is near.
You too - all the believers who were scattered in the empire in 1:1
Stand firm because - the foundational reason we can be endure is
because Jesus will return.
9 Don’t grumble against one another, brothers and sisters, or you will
be judged. The Judge is standing at the door!
Don't grumble - a sure sign of impatience is complaining!
Against one another - impatience leads to dis-unity
10 Brothers and sisters, as an example of patience in the face of
suffering, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
Mens Page 111

suffering, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
As an example - the first century people of faith relied on the faith
of those who came before them
11 As you know, we count as blessed those who have persevered. You
have heard of Job’s perseverance and have seen what the Lord finally
brought about. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy.
Persevered - "hanging tough" is a direct byproduct of godly
patience. When we are willing to wait on God, we are accepting the
responsibility to persevere until He responds
12 Above all, my brothers and sisters, do not swear—not by heaven or
by earth or by anything else. All you need to say is a simple “Yes” or
“No.” Otherwise you will be condemned.
Do not swear by - this speaks to rash or rushed speech, likely due
to trial or circumstance given the context, don't do this
3: Prayer is the product of patient perseverance
13 Is anyone among you in trouble? Let them pray. Is anyone happy?
Let them sing songs of praise.
Trouble/happy - notice the response is the same, praise and prayer
are both communications with God
14 Is anyone among you sick? Let them call the elders of the church to
pray over them and anoint them with oil in the name of the Lord.
Sick - same response, go to the Lord in prayer
Mens Page 112

15 And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well; the
Lord will raise them up. If they have sinned, they will be forgiven.
Will make - the power of prayer
16 Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so
that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person is powerful
and effective.
Prayer of a righteous person - a contrast from the "rich person" of
the previous section
17 Elijah was a human being, even as we are. He prayed earnestly that
it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land for three and a half
years.
Elijah - an example for encouragement of an Old Testament
prophet who was known for powerful prayers
18 Again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced
its crops.
19 My brothers and sisters, if one of you should wander from the truth
and someone should bring that person back,
20 remember this: Whoever turns a sinner from the error of their way
will save them from death and cover over a multitude of sins.
Save them from death - the stakes are high! We must be a people
who are patient and prayerful in perseverence
Mens Page 113

Mens Page 114

Men as Speckled Sheep Seekers
Wednesday, December 4, 2024 4:42 PM
Setting:
Jacob has worked for 14 years earning himself both of his
brides and having his sons. He now seeks to begin his own
household. But, first he must leave the employ of his uncle,
Laban.
Genesis 30:25–43
25 After Rachel gave birth to Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, “Send
me on my way so I can go back to my own homeland.
Rachel - his favorite wife
Joseph - his favorite son
My own homeland - return to Canaan
26 Give me my wives and children, for whom I have served you,
and I will be on my way. You know how much work I’ve done for
you.”
Give me my wives and children - they were his, but he still
needed to separate his household from Laban's.
27 But Laban said to him, “If I have found favor in your eyes,
please stay. I have learned by divination that the LORD has
blessed me because of you.”
By divination - the fact is correct, even if the source is sinful
Blessed me because of you - rising tide… Laban's success
was not due to his own worthiness, but because of God's
Mens Page 115

was not due to his own worthiness, but because of God's
blessing on Jacob
Please stay - this is a rejection of Jacob's original request
28 He added, “Name your wages, and I will pay them.”
Name your wages - Laban doubles down on paying Jacob to
stay with him
29 Jacob said to him, “You know how I have worked for you and
how your livestock has fared under my care.
How your livestock has fared - Jacob narrows the scope to
the livestock as payment
30 The little you had before I came has increased greatly, and
the LORD has blessed you wherever I have been. But now, when
may I do something for my own household?”
The LORD has blessed you - Jacob reminds Laban that it
was the LORD who was responsible for blessing him, not
Jacob himself.
When may I do - Jacob's desire to build his own household
is not selfish, it is the objective of a godly man's life, AND
part of the covenant that he was brought into from his
father Abraham
31 “What shall I give you?” he asked. “Don’t give me anything,”
Jacob replied. “But if you will do this one thing for me, I will go
on tending your flocks and watching over them:
Mens Page 116

What shall I give you - Laban isn't offering a blank check,
this is a typical ANE negotiation each one waiting to see
what the others wants and how they can make it to their
advantage
32 Let me go through all your flocks today and remove from
them every speckled or spotted sheep, every dark-colored lamb
and every spotted or speckled goat. They will be my wages.
Speckled/spotted - a relatively small amount of the flock
33 And my honesty will testify for me in the future, whenever
you check on the wages you have paid me. Any goat in my
possession that is not speckled or spotted, or any lamb that is
not dark-colored, will be considered stolen.”
Any lamb not dark-colored - Jacob clearly understood how
selective breeding worked, as it is the guarantee of his
truthfulness.
34 “Agreed,” said Laban. “Let it be as you have said.”
35 That same day he removed all the male goats that were
streaked or spotted, and all the speckled or spotted female
goats (all that had white on them) and all the dark-colored
lambs, and he placed them in the care of his sons.
Let it be / the same day - Laban agreed to Jacob's terms,
but quickly moves all the "dark" ones to a separate field
under his son's care
36 Then he put a three-day journey between himself and Jacob,
Mens Page 117

36 Then he put a three-day journey between himself and Jacob,
while Jacob continued to tend the rest of Laban’s flocks.
Three day journey - this was Laban trying to ensure Jacob
can't breed more of his own flock. They are his, but
separate from Laban's flock.
37 Jacob, however, took fresh-cut branches from poplar,
almond and plane trees and made white stripes on them by
peeling the bark and exposing the white inner wood of the
branches.
Fresh-cut branches - an ancient folklore belief that what the
animal saw while mating affected the birth of the animals.
Ultimately, this was God's power.
White inner - in Hebrew, 'white is /lay-bain/ a play on
words with Laban's name.
38 Then he placed the peeled branches in all the watering
troughs, so that they would be directly in front of the flocks
when they came to drink. When the flocks were in heat and
came to drink,
39 they mated in front of the branches. And they bore young
that were streaked or speckled or spotted.
They mated in front - the folklore belief in action
40 Jacob set apart the young of the flock by themselves, but
made the rest face the streaked and dark-colored animals that
belonged to Laban. Thus he made separate flocks for himself
and did not put them with Laban’s animals.
Mens Page 118

and did not put them with Laban’s animals.
41 Whenever the stronger females were in heat, Jacob would
place the branches in the troughs in front of the animals so they
would mate near the branches,
Stronger females - this is selective breeding use to create a
separate flock.
42 but if the animals were weak, he would not place them
there. So the weak animals went to Laban and the strong ones
to Jacob.
43 In this way the man grew exceedingly prosperous and came
to own large flocks, and female and male servants, and camels
and donkeys.
Grew exceedingly prosperous - God is the cause of Jacob's
blessing, not his folklore or selective breeding. He admits
this is 31:9
Two Key Points:
A: God blessed Laban because of Jacob.
B: God blessed Jacob despite his folklore scheming.
Comment on either or both however you like.
Mens Page 119

Men as Fatherly Inheritors
Wednesday, February 5, 2025 2:01 PM
Genesis 31:1–18 (NIV)
1 Jacob heard that Laban’s sons were saying, “Jacob has taken
everything our father owned and has gained all this wealth
from what belonged to our father.”
Laban's sons - their jealousy is material
Taken everything - their perspective on God's blessing is
selfish because they don't benefit from it
Belonged to our father - the material wealth is a BY-
PRODUCT of the covenant relationship with God
2 And Jacob noticed that Laban’s attitude toward him was not
what it had been.
Jacob noticed / Laban's attitude - we can tell when the
"winds have changed" and people don't treat us the same
3 Then the LORD said to Jacob, “Go back to the land of your
fathers and to your relatives, and I will be with you.”
The LORD - the covenant name for God
Go back to the land - the land that was promised to
Abraham to be a "forever inheritance" for his people
Mens Page 120

The setting here is the covenant relationship God has with
Abraham's descendants. The human story doesn't happen in
isolation, it happens within context of the bigger story of God's
covenant relationship with His chosen people!
4 So Jacob sent word to Rachel and Leah to come out to the
fields where his flocks were.
Sent word to Rachel and Leah - Jacob's first step is to speak
with his wives about the situation and God's instructions.
5 He said to them, “I see that your father’s attitude toward me
is not what it was before, but the God of my father has been
with me.
I see… but God - this is the hinge point, Jacob could see the
relationship with Laban had changed, but he knew God was
with him in the midst of it.
6 You know that I’ve worked for your father with all my
strength,
Worked… all my strength - despite being in covenant
relationship with God, Jacob worked hard for Laban, and
was blessed in the process. Stewardship requires work.
7 yet your father has cheated me by changing my wages ten
Mens Page 121

7 yet your father has cheated me by changing my wages ten
times. However, God has not allowed him to harm me.
Has cheated me… ten times - Jacob's unjust treatment by
Laban takes place WITHIN the covenant relationship and
chosen place for him to be! God was with Jacob in the midst
of his unjust treatment.
God has not - Jacob recognizes that despite the unjust
actions of Laban, God is still ultimately in charge of Jacob's
life and future.
8 If he said, ‘The speckled ones will be your wages,’ then all the
flocks gave birth to speckled young; and if he said, ‘The streaked
ones will be your wages,’ then all the flocks bore streaked
young.
If he said… gave birth - Laban tried to change the rules to
take advantage of God's blessing on Jacob, but only God is
the author and authority over life and birth.
9 So God has taken away your father’s livestock and has given
them to me.
God has taken - Jacob sees his material gain as the direct
product of God's working in his life.
Your father's livestock - Laban's son's perspective would
also be accurate, Laban's wealth has decreased while
Jacob's has increased. The difference is, Jacob didn't "steal"
it, a distinction they did not see.
Mens Page 122

it, a distinction they did not see.
10 “In breeding season I once had a dream in which I looked up
and saw that the male goats mating with the flock were
streaked, speckled or spotted.
In breeding season - the time that is obviously out of
human control and up to God's hand to direct
Had a dream - a normal way for God to speak to His people;
Jacob already had the "ladder" dream
11 The angel of God said to me in the dream, ‘Jacob.’ I
answered, ‘Here I am.’
Here I am - similar to Abraham and Moses replies to the
Lord when He spoke to them. Not just a recognition of
location, but also of submission.
12 And he said, ‘Look up and see that all the male goats mating
with the flock are streaked, speckled or spotted, for I have seen
all that Laban has been doing to you.
Look up and see - God had already intervened on Jacob's
behalf, but wanted to show it to him
I have seen - these are powerful words for any servant to
hear when they are in the midst of struggle
Mens Page 123

13 I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed a pillar and
where you made a vow to me. Now leave this land at once and
go back to your native land.’ ”
I am the God of Bethel, where you - God re-identifying
Himself as the God with whom Jacob had a covenantal
relationship.
Leave this land at once - this is not a suggestion, it is a
directive for immediate action.
14 Then Rachel and Leah replied, “Do we still have any share in
the inheritance of our father’s estate?
Share in the inheritance - the wives perspective is like their
brothers, material first
15 Does he not regard us as foreigners? Not only has he sold us,
but he has used up what was paid for us.
Regard us as foreigners - Laban apparently treats his own
daughters differently now as well
Used up what he paid for us - Laban had already spent the
bride price paid for each daughter; this speaks to Laban's
materialism beyond cheating Jacob
16 Surely all the wealth that God took away from our father
belongs to us and our children. So do whatever God has told
Mens Page 124

belongs to us and our children. So do whatever God has told
you.”
All the wealth God took away - the wives recognize the
blessing on Jacob is because of God's hand, not Jacob's
17 Then Jacob put his children and his wives on camels,
On camels - this speaks to the gain of his wealth during his
time in Paddan Aram.
18 and he drove all his livestock ahead of him, along with all the
goods he had accumulated in Paddan Aram, to go to his father
Isaac in the land of Canaan.
Drove all his livestock - Jacob moved to Paddan Aram with
nothing, fleeing his brother Esau after stealing the blessing
from their father. Jacob now returns very wealthy because
of God's hand on his life, not his own scheming.
A key theme in this section is the idea of "fatherly inheritance".
Laban's sons are concerned at the material wealth that Laban
has lost. Jacob recognizes God's hand and blessing on his life,
which is his inheritance from Isaac as a covenant carrier. Rachel
and Leah must "choose a side" to stand with their family of
origin, or like Rebekah before and Ruth after, commit to the
covenant God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
What kind of "fatherly inheritance" do you have from your
family of origin?
Mens Page 125

family of origin?
What kind of "fatherly inheritance" are your preparing for your
wife and children?
Mens Page 126

Men as False Heroes
Wednesday, March 5, 2025 2:40 PM
Genesis 31:22–55 (NIV)
22 On the third day Laban was told that Jacob had fled.
Third day - Jacob had a major head start, but travelled with
a larger group
23 Taking his relatives with him, he pursued Jacob for seven
days and caught up with him in the hill country of Gilead.
Taking his relatives - possibly the same that were
complaining about Jacob in the previous section
Pursued for seven days - the same distance Jacob made in
10 days; or the 3 & 7 are not literal, but describe shorter
and longer periods of time
24 Then God came to Laban the Aramean in a dream at night
and said to him, “Be careful not to say anything to Jacob, either
good or bad.”
God came to Laban - this functionally protects Laban from
further curses from God as it is Jacob who is covenant
relationship with God
25 Jacob had pitched his tent in the hill country of Gilead when
Laban overtook him, and Laban and his relatives camped there
too.
Relatives camped there too - the "posse" that Laban brings
Mens Page 127

Relatives camped there too - the "posse" that Laban brings
suggests he had violence or intimidation in his plan before
God intervened
26 Then Laban said to Jacob, “What have you done? You’ve
deceived me, and you’ve carried off my daughters like captives
in war.
You deceived me - how is Jacob leaving with what is
rightfully his deceptive? Or does Laban have something else
in view?
Carried off my daughters - notice the ownership, not
Jacob's wives, but still Laban's daughters
Like captives - yet a few verses earlier, his own daughters
noted Laban treats them "like foreigners" (31:15)
27 Why did you run off secretly and deceive me? Why didn’t you
tell me, so I could send you away with joy and singing to the
music of timbrels and harps?
Run off secretly - because God said so; and he didn't (with
good reason) trust Laban
Send you away with joy - giving his previous treatment of
Jacob, this is unlikely to be true
28 You didn’t even let me kiss my grandchildren and my
daughters goodbye. You have done a foolish thing.
Kiss my daughters - the one's he treats as foreigners
Mens Page 128

29 I have the power to harm you; but last night the God of your
father said to me, ‘Be careful not to say anything to Jacob,
either good or bad.’
Power to harm you - this illustrates the use of the
"relatives" he brought with him
30 Now you have gone off because you longed to return to your
father’s household. But why did you steal my gods?”
Because you longed - Laban knows this is true; he leaves
out his character or actions because Jacob's longing doesn't
insult him at all
Steal my gods - Jacob does not know about this
31 Jacob answered Laban, “I was afraid, because I thought you
would take your daughters away from me by force.
Take your daughters - this is a real possibility; especially
since Laban still considers all this "his" (v43)
32 But if you find anyone who has your gods, that person shall
not live. In the presence of our relatives, see for yourself
whether there is anything of yours here with me; and if so, take
it.” Now Jacob did not know that Rachel had stolen the gods.
Shall not live - this shows Jacob doesn't know
Presence of your relatives - the "witnesses" were to
validate Jacob's innocence, he has no idea of Rachel's guilt
Mens Page 129

33 So Laban went into Jacob’s tent and into Leah’s tent and into
the tent of the two female servants, but he found nothing. After
he came out of Leah’s tent, he entered Rachel’s tent.
34 Now Rachel had taken the household gods and put them
inside her camel’s saddle and was sitting on them. Laban
searched through everything in the tent but found nothing.
Rachel had taken - she is guilty party; her life is in danger
because Jacob doesn't know about the theft
35 Rachel said to her father, “Don’t be angry, my lord, that I
cannot stand up in your presence; I’m having my period.” So he
searched but could not find the household gods.
Having my period - two choices: (a) she is lying and it's a
cover for her theft; or (b) she's not lying and she has made
the idols "unclean" by menstruating on them
36 Jacob was angry and took Laban to task. “What is my
crime?” he asked Laban. “How have I wronged you that you
hunt me down?
Jacob was angry - here is where Jacob responds with anger
to the last mistreatment of Jacob
37 Now that you have searched through all my goods, what
have you found that belongs to your household? Put it here in
front of your relatives and mine, and let them judge between
the two of us.
What have you found - Jacob now turns the presence of
Mens Page 130

What have you found - Jacob now turns the presence of
"relatives " into a weakness for Laban, there are witnesses
to Jacob's innocence
38 “I have been with you for twenty years now. Your sheep and
goats have not miscarried, nor have I eaten rams from your
flocks.
Twenty years now - Jacob's sojourn in Laban's lands has
been two decades in the making
39 I did not bring you animals torn by wild beasts; I bore the
loss myself. And you demanded payment from me for whatever
was stolen by day or night.
Bore the loss myself - this further describes the
antagonistic state between Jacob and Laban
40 This was my situation: The heat consumed me in the daytime
and the cold at night, and sleep fled from my eyes.
41 It was like this for the twenty years I was in your household. I
worked for you fourteen years for your two daughters and six
years for your flocks, and you changed my wages ten times.
Changed my wages - this speaks to Laban's taking
advantage of Jacob
42 If the God of my father, the God of Abraham and the Fear of
Isaac, had not been with me, you would surely have sent me
away empty-handed. But God has seen my hardship and the toil
of my hands, and last night he rebuked you.”
Mens Page 131

Had not been with me - God was with Jacob; and thus he
was blessed while being cheated and mistreated.
43 Laban answered Jacob, “The women are my daughters, the
children are my children, and the flocks are my flocks. All you
see is mine. Yet what can I do today about these daughters of
mine, or about the children they have borne?
My daughters/children/flocks - clearly Laban still sees
himself as the "owner" of all of the family and estate God
had given him.
44 Come now, let’s make a covenant, you and I, and let it serve
as a witness between us.”
Let's make a covenant - Laban, now unable to use his
strength against
45 So Jacob took a stone and set it up as a pillar.
Setup a pillar - this is a place of remembrance of the
"peace" between Laban & Jacob; this sets up the peace that
Jacob will get from his brother later
46 He said to his relatives, “Gather some stones.” So they took
stones and piled them in a heap, and they ate there by the
heap.
47 Laban called it Jegar Sahadutha, and Jacob called it Galeed.
Different words - Laban's is Aramaic; Jacob's is Hebrew
Mens Page 132

48 Laban said, “This heap is a witness between you and me
today.” That is why it was called Galeed.
Galeed - lit. "witness pile"; a lasting witness or reminder of
the agreement made herex
49 It was also called Mizpah, because he said, “May the LORD
keep watch between you and me when we are away from each
other.
Mizpah - lit. "watchtower"
50 If you mistreat my daughters or if you take any wives besides
my daughters, even though no one is with us, remember that
God is a witness between you and me.”
If you mistreat - these are Laban's terms; as if care or
concern for his daughters is the reason he followed after
Jacob
51 Laban also said to Jacob, “Here is this heap, and here is this
pillar I have set up between you and me.
52 This heap is a witness, and this pillar is a witness, that I will
not go past this heap to your side to harm you and that you will
not go past this heap and pillar to my side to harm me.
Harm you / harm me - Laban sets this entire ordeal up to
look like he is the "just" one and Jacob is the "deceiver and
thief" who needs to be reminded.
Yet, the outcome of the peace is Laban is stopping the
Mens Page 133

Yet, the outcome of the peace is Laban is stopping the
"thief" Jacob from re-entering his land
53 May the God of Abraham and the God of Nahor, the God of
their father, judge between us.” So Jacob took an oath in the
name of the Fear of his father Isaac.
God of Abraham/Nahor - as a polytheist/henotheist Laban
is swearing by both Gods, his and Jacob's
54 He offered a sacrifice there in the hill country and invited his
relatives to a meal. After they had eaten, they spent the night
there.
55 Early the next morning Laban kissed his grandchildren and
his daughters and blessed them. Then he left and returned
home.
Left and returned home - Laban's leaving marks the "break"
between Jacob's life in Paddan-Aran, and back in the land of
Caanan.
Question:
Have you ever experienced someone making themselves
appear as a false hero?
Have you ever shaded details in order to make yourself the
false hero?
Mens Page 134