Good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you so much for being here and being a part of our worship service. Whether you are worshiping with us here in the sanctuary or whether you are joining us online, thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family and for joining us for Palm Sunday 2024. Now here at Catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change in Christ. Life change implying that we're not going to remain the way we are now and in Christ implying that the number one reason we change is because of Jesus, not ourselves. And one of the ways in which we do that is by studying the Bible together. And we just finished up a really long series so it's Palm Sunday. I thought what better to do than let's dig in and talk about Palm Sunday. So here is the key thought for this sermon and here it is. How we view Jesus affects how we view his ministry and mission. How we view Jesus, and there shouldn't have been an is there, that was in my notes, not their fault. So it really reads, how we view who Jesus is affects how we view his ministry and mission. We're going to be looking at the Gospel of John this morning. So if you brought your Bibles, turn or tap to John chapter 12. We're going to look at verses 12 to verse 19. So only seven verses today. John 12, 12 to 19. While you're turning there, we haven't done this in a while so hopefully we're going to knock the dust off the boots. Let's go over the big Bible story. Here we go. So in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. He created the first two human beings, Adam and then he put them in the garden of. Then sin happened, the fall they rejected from the garden. Sin continues to happen. God has to redeem the planet so he sends a flood and he chooses a man named Noah. Builds a boat, saves humanity. Then after that the flood subsides. God decides to make a covenant with a very special man whose name is Abraham. The son of Abraham, the son of promise from Abraham is Isaac. Son of promise of Isaac is Jacob. Jacob has the 12 sons and eventually become the 12 tribes of Israel. At the end of the book of Genesis, they go into slavery in what country? Egypt. That's right. Then there's 400 years between Egypt and the end of Genesis beginning of Exodus. They're in slavery for 400 years and then there came a Pharaoh who knew not Joseph, who didn't know who Joseph was. Didn't know what God did through Joseph to save Egypt from a famine. And so they cry out for a deliverer, I'm in slavery, God save me. And God sends a deliverer named Moses whose brother is named Aaron. Aaron whose sister is named Miriam. You guys are getting good. Here we go. So this is like the 201 questions now. We're not just into 101 questions. So then Moses and Aaron, they give the 10 plagues. God redeems his people. Miriam leads the people in worshiping God and they make it all the way out of the promised land to the foot of Mount Sinai. Where God gives them the decalogue or the 10 commandments. And I would love to tell you that they did everything right. But there's a whole lot of Bible story left. So they are disobedient. They have to wander in the wilderness for how many years? 40 years of wilderness wandering. God allows that whole generation, the generation that experienced the plagues did not experience the promised land. I just soaked that one in for a minute. They watched all of God's miracles but did not receive God's blessing because of disobedience. So then God raises up a man named Joseph. They cross over the Jordan River. By the way it does part and stand up just like the Red Sea did as they walk into the land of Canaan, the book of Joshua. Then judges. Everybody did what was right in their own eyes. Then Israel starts complaining to God. I want something like all the other kids have. What did Israel want? A king. Who's the first king in the United Monarchy of Israel? Saul followed by? David followed by? Solomon. Then what happens after Solomon? Civil War. Civil War happens and the nation of God's people fracture into two halves. The lower kingdom of? Starts with an I. Israel and the northern kingdom of? Judah. Right? And now all of a sudden they're that way and they remain as two separate kingdoms and still being disobedient. So then God sends them into exile. Along comes the big bad nation of Assyria. Assyria defeats Israel at an adder about like 722 BC and Israel goes into captivity. Then Assyria falls to Babylon. Babylon comes and this is like a game of war. Assyria overtakes Israel. Then Assyria falls to Babylon. Then Babylon beats Judah. Then they all go over into exile and then Babylon falls to what foreign nation? Persia. Right? And that's a big pivotal turning point in the Old Testament most people don't talk about. When Babylon falls to Persia, now all of a sudden the children of Israel are allowed to come home. So now they come home into the promised land. There's your Ezra, there's your Nehemiah. They're rebuilding the Hezekiah. Rebuilding. And then there's silence. How many years of silence between the New Testament and the Old Testament? 400 years. God doesn't say anything. He's not revealing new scriptures. He's not giving new prophets. For 400 years God is silent. And then God sends an angel to a very specific place, to a very specific man. And he says, you are going to have a promised son. The name of the first man to get special revelation in the New Testament is Zechariah. I heard it somewhere. Zechariah. His son is John the Baptist. Then God sends an angel to a girl named Mary. But before Mary, God sent the angel to Zechariah. He said, your son is going to be the forerunner. And that's the link between the Old Testament and the New Testament. The Old Testament ends, I'm going to send you your Messiah and you're going to know it's him. Because I'm going to send his boy ahead of him and he's going to prepare the way. And so John the Baptist is the boy preparing the way. And then along comes the Messiah of Israel whose English name is Jesus. And Jesus grows up. He's anointed. He's filled with the Holy Spirit. He begins to do ministry. He ministers. He does miraculous signs and wonders. And then on April the 2nd, AD 30, he arrives in Jerusalem. And that's where we're at today. In case you wanted to know the date for Palm Sunday, I'm in the fact that... So there's only two dates for the resurrection that are viable from a scholarly perspective. Jesus either rose in AD 30 or he rose in AD 33. It's the only two that meet all of the numerical criteria. I'm in the AD 30 camp. I respect you if you want to be in the 33 camp. That's cool. Either way, the resurrection is a historical event. It actually happened. And since Palm Sunday happened seven days before Easter, if I know that the resurrection occurred on April the 9th, AD 30, I can do 9 minus 7. Even I can do that. I don't even teach my kids homeschool math. My wife has to do it. But I can do 9 minus 7. So today we are talking about the events that occurred in Jerusalem in 1st century Rome on April the 2nd of AD 30. That's where we are in the big Bible story. So let's first read John chapter 12, 12 to 19, and let's see what the Word of God has to say. Here it is. John 12, starting in verse 12. The next day the great crowd that had come for the festival heard that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem. They took palm branches and went out to meet him, shouting, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the King of Israel. Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it as it is written, Do not be afraid, daughter of Zion. See, your King is coming seated on a donkey's colt. Verse 16. At first, his disciples did not understand all of this. Only after Jesus was glorified did they realize that these things had been written about him and that these things had been done to him. Now, the crowd that was with him when he called Lazarus from the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to spread the word. Many people, because they had heard that he performed this sign, went out to meet him. So the Pharisees said to one another, See, this is getting us nowhere. Look at how the whole world has gone after him. Stop. That's all I want to look at. Just this little scene here of what's happening on Palm Sunday. So let's rewind back to verse 12 and sort of unpack what's going on. So when you get to verse 12 and you read that the first words there are the next day, what's the very first thing you should do? Go back. Right? Go back. The next day from what? In John's Gospel. The next day. So Jesus was anointed at Bethany. That's what happened just before this moment. Jesus is his feet are anointed. It's a beautiful scene like alabaster jar, beautiful song. But this event occurs right after that event in the way John is telling the narrative. So the next day, meaning the day after Jesus was anointed. Now, he's also anointed at Bethany. Bethany is the place where Mary and Martha and Lazarus lived. So he's in the very place where he raised Lazarus from the dead. And then he's anointed and then Palm Sunday happens. So that's all right there in the next day. As you're looking at your geography, you're looking at your chronology, your timeline. What's going on? Like all of this happened on the pages of human history. So we can look at what's the big deal here. So the next day after he's anointed at Bethany in the same place where he raised Lazarus. The great crowd. So the next day, the great crowd had come for the festival. Had heard that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem. So the next question we have to ask is why is there a great crowd on their way to Jerusalem? If you were to rewind in your Bibles, those of you who like cross references to Leviticus chapter 23. When God establishes the Jewish worship calendar. He establishes certain festivals throughout the year. That they are required to travel to Jerusalem and required to worship. The Sabbath is actually a weekly required festival. It happens every seven days. But there are three festivals that happen once a year that they are required to go to Jerusalem. Anybody give me one of the three required. Passover is one. Give me another one. Holy Spirit Falls in Acts chapter two. Pentecost. There we go. Where are all my Pentecostal friends at? So Passover, Pentecost. Anybody know what the third one is? These are the Tabernacles or shelters. Anybody who likes camping, you can remember that one. So Tabernacles and Passover and Pentecost are these required festivals. Now we don't really have something like that in our Christian culture. Closest thing I could come to is like Christmas and Easter. Everybody who even considers themselves related to somebody who is Christian. Usually goes to church on Christmas and Easter. But unlike our society, these are required festivals. These are things you must do annually as part of how God is to be worshiped. So three times a year, Jerusalem's population explodes. Because everyone is required to travel to these festivals. This is the backdrop of the story. Jesus was just anointed at Bethany in the place where he had raised Lazarus from the dead. He is now traveling to Jerusalem along with everybody else who is everybody else. And they're all coming to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. That's the specific festival that's in view in this moment. So we're celebrating the Passover. And they heard that Jesus was on his way. And I think the word heard here in 12 is really almost typical of what's going to happen in the rest of these verses. There's a lot of hearing that goes on. There's a lot of murmuring. There's a lot of assumptions. People are hearing things and they're making decisions. So 12 kind of opens this frame where the day after he's anointed, he's anointed in the place he rose Lazarus. We're on our way to Jerusalem because we're going to celebrate the festival of Passover because that's required for us to worship God. With that as the backdrop, then we get this new information in verse 13. They took palm branches and went out to meet him. So if you're reading this and you're not just automatically reading it, now I got a minor ring in the upper to mids. If you're reading this and you're not a Christian, you've got to ask the question, what's up with the palm branches? For those of us who grew up as a Christian, I've been a Christian since I can remember. I remember growing up as a child sitting next to my grandmother in church and fidgeting and being told to be quiet and then waiting for communion and not understanding why it was bread and juice instead of Oreos and milk. I think that would be a way cooler communion. So I remember growing up in church and I've celebrated Palm Sunday every single year of my life. So it's almost woven into the cultural fabric of how we understand church. But this is the first time they did it. There's no cultural fabric here. So we need to be asking ourselves the question, why are palm branches and the words, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord and blessed is the king of Israel. What is happening in this moment? In order to understand this, we need to rewind a little bit in our big Bible story to the part that we skip over. A lot of times all I ask you is how many years between the Old Testament and the New Testament, right? And we skip over 400 years of human history. It's not that human history wasn't happening at that point. It's that revelatory history wasn't happening. God wasn't doing anything new. So there's no reason for him to reveal scripture that happens during that 400 years. But there's a lot of human stuff. There's a lot of history stuff that happened during that 400 years. So let's rewind back a little bit and talk about what happened in what we call the silent years, which is that intertestamental period. So in 323 BC, and a dude named Alexander the Great. Anybody heard of Alexander the Great? Right? Super cool dude. Colin Farrell played him in a movie once. That makes him even cooler. So 323 BC, Alexander the Great dies unexpectedly after amassing this giant empire, this meadow kind of Persian. It was right between the Persian and the Greeks. His dad had come from Macedonia. So this meadow Persian empire has this amazingly young, good-looking, fantaculous king, and he dies unexpectedly. And his kingdom that he has just built. Keep in mind, what's the singular biggest quote about Alexander the Great? And when Alexander looked at the breadth of his domain, he, anybody know? He wept, for there were no more worlds to conquer. That's the classic quote about Alexander the Great. When he looked at the breadth of his domain, he wept. He cried. Jerry, because there's no more war. I can't go defeat anybody else. I guess I just got to sit here and collect taxes now. He was a warrior. So when he dies, his generals all start fighting with each other. Somebody else wants to be king. The king is gone and I won like 20% of this empire. So I feel like I'm justified in being king. And all of his kings implode on one another. And they each take their own little armies and they start fighting one another. And they start killing each other. And there was a general named Seleucus. S-E-L-E-U-C-I-S. Seleucus. And he takes control of the area known as Syria. And he eventually conquers the others and he actually conquers the area of Israel as well. So now there's this guy named Seleucus. And he begins the Seleucid Empire. So named because his name was Seleucus. So Seleucus is a general, comes after Alexander the Great, defeats all of his buddies who he used to go in the army with. And he takes control of the area of Syria which then at this time includes Israel. So at 323, we'll say the wars lasted maybe 5 to 7 years. By 318, 317 B.C. the Seleucid Empire begins. And his sons and his sons start ruling over Israel. Now keep in mind they didn't get free until Persia. Right? They were, they got taken captive by the Assyrians, got taken captive by the Babylonians. All of a sudden the Persians send them home and they're like free for like 150 years. And then in comes Alexander and after Alexander the Seleucid Empire. Now fast forward 175 B.C. Antiochus, called Antiochus Epiphanes, meaning he called himself the God Man. That's what Epiphanes means. He calls himself the God Man. And he takes over Israel and he walks into the temple and he declares God's temple his temple. And he defiles the temple by sacrificing a pig to Zeus on the altar of God in Jerusalem at 175 B.C. Now if you understand anything about the Jewish law, pigs were unclean animals to begin with. They weren't even allowed in the temple complex, let alone to take the most unclean animal, walk right into the Jewish temple, slaughter that animal's blood all over the Ark of God. It would be as offensive if you were to go to a modern day mosque with a dog. So canines are considered unclean in modern day Islam. Which is why if you've ever seen a blind Muslim, generally they won't have a seeing eye dog. They actually have seeing eye horses. Look it up on YouTube, I promise I didn't make it up, you can see it. Tiny small horses are the only other thing in the ADA. I don't know why do I know these things. Tiny horses are the only other thing in the ADA that's considered a seeing eye animal. Other than seeing eye dogs. Somebody's going to fact check me, you Google that mess, I promise you I'm right. There's actually a Muslim woman, there's a video of her taking her tiny horse. My ADHD is way over here. But just trust me, it's all about cleanliness animals and I'm sure it matches somehow, just go with me. So, Antiochus sacrifices this pig on the altar of God and the Jews lose it. And they absolutely riot. And they overthrow the Seleucid Empire. So Antiochus sacrifices a pig in 167 BC. In 166 BC, a dude by the name of Judah, Judah Maccabeus, that name might sound a little familiar, right? Judah Maccabeus in 166 BC, he takes charge of the Jewish rebellion. They rebel against the Seleucid Empire and in 164 BC they win. And they get their freedom back. And now the Jewish people are free in their own land. And in 164 BC, when Judah Maccabeus comes to Jerusalem as the conquering general of the Jewish rebellion against the Seleucid Empire, how do you think he entered the city? On palm branches. And that happened in 164 BC. And we're now at 30 AD. So roughly 194 years before Palm Sunday, there was another guy who entered Jerusalem on palm branches to the cries of Hosanna, Hosanna blessed is the king of Israel. 200 years before Jesus they did this. If you didn't know all of that, and the little tiny horse ADA thing, that was just a bonus, that's for you. But if you didn't know this piece of human history, you cannot properly understand why they put palm branches down for Jesus in AD 30. They are harkening back in their cultural tribal memory to a moment when the Jews dusted off their pagan oppressors and took their land back. When they put these palm branches down and they, I mean just what was the verses here? Hosanna blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the king of Israel. They are not saying Jesus is the sovereign spiritual king of kings and Lord of lords that you and I read that today. Because why? Because we're reading it through a Christian lens. They are reading it through an oppressed people Jewish lens. Where 200 years ago a dude named Judah, who I kid you not, they most likely would have called him the lion of Judah, He beat back the Seleucid Empire and they worshiped him as the new king of Israel by putting palm branches down. Now that's just as much as, you know, Connor, if we were to go up to Boston, right? Let's say after church, you and me and Taylor, we all get in the car, we roll up to Boston and in order to celebrate American freedom, we're going to start throwing crates of tea into the harbor. What historical event are we reaching back to in our history? The Boston Tea Party. The Boston Tea Party. And why do you know that? It's history. Yes, the reason we know that is it's history. It actually happened. This whole palm branches thing is history. It's the history of them fighting for their freedom. And when we get freedom from an oppressive empire, like we did with the Boston Tea Party, you remember that junk. And you tell your children about it. And you tell your children's children about it. And you tell them to remember the day that Judah came to town on palm branches because we had pushed back the evil, evil Romans in the same way that we continue to teach the Boston Tea Party in our elementary education now. Remember the day America bought its freedom. Don't ever forget, right? Same thing. If they had t-shirts back then, it would have palm branches. Never forget. You know, that's, I mean, this is what it would be. This is their cultural living memory. And all of that plays into this holiday we call Palm Sunday. There are churches all around the globe today that will have palms in their sanctuaries. They have no concept that there was a king of Israel who came into Jerusalem on palm branches 200 years before Christ. And that event, just like you and me in the Boston Tea Party today, that event is what the crowd is prefiguring when they see Jesus rolling in. Why? Because, like, daggum. Dan, the guy just raised somebody from the dead. Who else do we need? Who else? And what is it that they want? They want a king and they want freedom from Rome. Rome is the end of the line, just like the Seleucids were the end of the line 200 years before. Rome is a pagan idolatrous culture that worships a god named Zeus, the same god that Antiochus Epiphanes sacrificed a pig to in our temple 200 years ago. They want political freedom. And that is what they are, so just don't get it twisted. The palm branches for us, for you and I, are a symbol of divine worship. For them in this moment, it is not. It is political revolution. Just as much as if you and I were to go to Boston and throw a couple of boxes of tea in the Habba. What are we prefiguring? We are prefiguring revolution. Political revolution. Not spiritual, not sacrificial. None of those things that you and I know about Jesus now. Why? Because it is really hard sometimes to take your Christian lenses off and realize that the author of this book was a Jew, not a Christian. He was a Jew who believed in Jesus and became a Christian. But John and his brother James and Peter and Andrew, they were all Jewish fishermen until they grew up. So all of that is super important in 12 and 13. That is just the frame. Then we get to 14. I super find it interesting that John does not focus on the finding of the donkey. Neither does Luke, by the way. But Matthew and Mark, they both talk about the fact that Jesus told his disciples, go into town and you will find the master of the house and just tell him the master has an event. John skips that entire ordeal. Because keep in mind when you are reading multiple perspectives of an event, and this is something that the atheist will say, well, there are too many details that are not the same in the gospels so they cannot be true. My number one response to that is, but if they were all the same, you would say the same thing. Right? I mean, Mr. Gary, if you add five witnesses to a crime and they all said literally the exact same sentences, you are going to know they colluded ahead of time. Right? So the differences in the gospel make them believable. Don't believe me. Go buy a book called Cold, Crazy Christianity by Warner Wallace. He was an atheist detective who investigated the witness claims in the New Testament and found them to be historically reliable. So the differences are good for us, but the differences also show us they are focusing on different aspects of the story. So John in verse 14, he just says, Jesus found a donkey. He didn't say, you know, Sharita, do me a favor, go into town and go back behind Kim's shop. There's going to be a donkey there. And if Kim wonders why you're letting her donkey go, just tell her Jesus needs it. Skipped over that whole part. In verse 14, that's all he said. I would have said, Sharita, go in the back of Kim's shop, get the donkey and some cake, and then bring the donkey. We'll eat the cake. That's what I would have said. John apparently doesn't want us to have any cake. 15, 15, do not be afraid. Daughter Zion, see your king is coming seated on a donkey's colt. So this is a reference from Zechariah chapter nine, verse nine. Jesus is fulfilling a lot of Old Testament prophecy here, and they're seeing it in real time, but they're misinterpreting its purpose because they're seeing it through the lens of political revolution. Very interesting. What animal Jesus is on right now. Jesus is on a colt, which is the child of a donkey. A donkey is an animal of labor, not an animal of war. I think that that little bit right there, that symbolism is very powerful. If Jesus had been seated on a horse, he would have been the warrior king coming to town. He's on a donkey. That is a beast of burden. That's a beast of work. Symbolically, Jesus is entering Jerusalem as the king, but he is entering as a king who has come to accomplish, not as a king who has come to conquer. Big difference there, just in that little bit of symbolism. That's why I think the prophecy from Zechariah nine, nine is because God knew Jesus was coming to save us first and then establish the kingdom second. They don't know that. They don't know that. Verse 16. At first, his disciples did not understand all this. God, that's like my favorite verse in the New Testament. Do you understand what that means? What that means is the 12 apostles, the 72 who walked with Jesus, all of the women who were in the empty tomb, they didn't get it. That makes me feel so good because there are plenty of times, Ken, when I read the Bible and I'm like, what? And then you got to like go to the left, you got to go to the right, read a couple of chapters this way. What? I realized like it's my job to study the Bible to make sure that I bring it presented to you well. But you just need to understand that I have some what moments a lot. And sometimes, you know, Barry, I think you'll get this. Sometimes I have what moments over the little things, right? And then you end up chasing down this rabbit hole. And then you get to this really weird place that you didn't ever know or expect to get to. And sometimes it's good stuff like finding Antiochus Epiphanes and the whole Seleucid Rebellion and how it ties in here. Sometimes the rabbit trails end in really good fruit. Sometimes the rabbit trails just end and they don't make any sense. What I feel great about is the beginning of verse 16. Even those who walked with Jesus didn't get it when it was happening. So at first, his disciples and I would argue here that word disciples does not mean just the twelve apostles. It means all the followers of Jesus, which includes the seventy two and includes all the women. At first, his disciples did not understand all of this. Only after Jesus was glorified did they realize all these things had been written about him and that these things had been done to him. What's the biggest difference in the disciples before and after the resurrection? Anybody want to take a guess? Let me ask a more clear question. What's one thing that the disciples receive after the resurrection that they didn't have before the resurrection? Yes. And what is the Holy Spirit's primary function in the life of the believer? Comforter and helper, illuminator. The Holy Spirit who wrote the scriptures illuminates our minds. So even the disciples, and sometimes you've got to remember when you're reading the gospels, they didn't have the Holy Spirit. You immediately open the book and the author of the book is living inside of you. If you're a Christian and you are indwelt with the Holy Spirit, the same spirit that wrote the book lives in you. They didn't have that when they're walking around next to Jesus. They're still trying to get it in their earthly thinking. So sometimes I think we've got to give them a little bit of a break. And by giving them a break, it makes me feel good about me getting a break that sometimes I just don't get it. So after Jesus is glorified, they understand everything. Seventeen. Now the crowd that was with him when he called Lazarus from the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to spread the word. Now this is the crowd that's outside of just his disciples. This is everyone who was there. If you remember the story of the raising of Lazarus, there was a large group of people there. The whole town had come together to help mourn the loss of one of their townspeople. So this was a cultural thing. So it's not just the disciples who are spreading the word about Jesus. There's a crowd. And what's the motivation behind the crowd? They witnessed something they cannot explain. They witnessed the bodily resurrection or resuscitation of Lazarus. And so they start talking about it. Now that ties in with the fact that everybody's traveling to Jerusalem. Everybody's traveling like, Megan, oh my gosh, did you hear? Like, bro, I was there. It was the weirdest thing. He didn't smell. Like, that's the number one thing I would think. What did they say? Jesus, he's been in there like three days. By now, there's going to be rank stench. That's the new international bill version, right? I think she actually said a terrible odor, but rank stench sounds good. There was no smell. He was whole. He could see. You know, something silly things since my ADHD is off the charts today. I always wondered like, if Lazarus wore glasses before he died, did he have to wear the glasses when he got back up? As somebody who has to wear glasses and as I get older, the glasses seem to keep getting bigger. I wonder silly little things like that. But this entire crowd, they're talking about it. They're on their way to a Jewish festival. What's Passover about? Passover is about the redemption and salvation of people from a slave nation into a free people. Like the amount of symbolism buried in this little scene here is huge. Eighteen, many people because they had heard he performed sign went to meet him. Notice that doesn't say many people because they worshiped him as the son of God. Many people because they heard about some miraculous sign. They're like, well, I want to see that. Man, what would that be like? Liz, are you busy on Friday? Let's go to Jerusalem early and see if we can catch Jesus showing up. Because keep in mind, there's tons of people coming to town. In fact, the external like greater Jerusalem area would actually expand and people would camp outside all the way to the Mount of Olives. Like it was an expansion of the city during that time. And so there's this unnamed group of people that are seeking Jesus because they heard stuff about what he did, but they haven't met him yet. And then in verse 19, there's one more group. The Pharisees said to one another, see, this is getting us nowhere. Look, the whole world has gone after him. The Pharisees are responding out of jealousy and perhaps fear. And I think their fear would be warranted. And they're aggravated. The people are seeking Jesus. Now you got to ask yourself, why are the Pharisees irritated? They're irritated for two reasons. Number one, when you're the religious people who are in charge of everybody else and you have the power, you don't want to lose the power. But there's another. So on one hand, they are jealous because their influence is being decreased. Just like John said, I have to decrease so he may increase. So on one hand, selfishly, the Pharisees are losing their personal influence, but the Pharisees have a bigger problem. They're only in charge as long as Rome lets them be in charge. And Rome doesn't suffer disobedience. Rome will kill you or you obey. Those are the only two choices. Obey or die. The problem is, is you can't defeat a people who would rather die than be defeated. You just can't. So the Pharisees know there's a, there's a gentle balance here, right? So the Romans let us be in charge. They let us run our little religious system. As long as we don't make trouble for Rome. When you declare that a new king is coming to town, this makes trouble with Rome. Right? What did the Pharisees say to Pontius Pilate when he tries to free Jesus? And he says, is this not your king? The Pharisees said, no, no, no, no, no. We have no king but Caesar. They gave their loyalty and allegiance to Caesar. So the Pharisees cannot allow the crowd to worship Jesus as the king, as the reincarnation of of Judah Maccabeus, who's going to defeat the Romans the way Judah defeated the Seleucids. They can't let that happen. Because if they let that happen, Rome won't make a distinction between the Jews who are rebellious and the rest of the Jews. Rome will just kill them all. So I do want to point out in verse 19, a lot of times we talk about the Pharisees and we only view their selfishness. There also is a little bit of self-preservation going on here. If we poke the bear, the bear comes back and then he'll kill us all. And that's a bad day. So all of that's sort of buried in verse 19. But I want you to see now that there are three distinct people groups in this scene on this day. The disciples themselves who are committed followers of Jesus are following him and don't understand. They're following because they're obedient, but their obedience doesn't necessarily lead to their understanding. The second is there is a crowd of people who are already in Jerusalem laying down the palm branches. They are seeking a political savior, not a religious one. They're all that history and Alexander the Great and everything else. So crowd number one is the disciples who are following Jesus. They love him. They're committed to him, but they just don't get it. Crowd number two is the people who are seeking the political savior, who want Jesus to defeat the Romans in the same way that Judah Maccabeus defeated the Seleucids. And then there's another crowd and that's the crowd who heard that Jesus has done signs. And they're like, well, let's see. Where's that at? Oh my gosh, can you imagine? And just think of the conversation. Like a lot of times my brain thinks in movie scenes, you know, scenes. And my brain is seeing this crowd of people who don't know Jesus' teachings, but are interested enough in seeing it either because they just think it's cool. They want to be entertained, right? There are plenty of people who just want to see miraculous things. There are people within Christendom who get, who get scope locked on either demonology or angelology or end times teaching. And why? Because it's spooky. It's different. It's cool. Whatever. So this crowd is seeking Jesus. And they're like, man, if he raised Lazarus on just like a random day in Bethany, what kind of miracles do you think he's going to do? It's Passover. Surely he's going to do something cool for Passover. I wonder if he's going to strike all the Romans dead. Wouldn't that be amazing? I mean, this is their perspective going in. So you've got a crowd that's committed to Jesus, but don't get it. You've got a crowd that's viewing Jesus the wrong way, thinking they're going to be a political savior. And then you've got another crowd that's just seeking Jesus for themselves. And here's what I think. I think those same three crowds exist today. I think there are people in churches all over America and all over the world who are committed to Jesus, who want to be obedient, but who just don't get it, who don't understand the deeper things, who don't understand. Like I had a friend of mine. He's a pastor in Arizona. He and I were talking on the phone this week and he's in the middle of going to Bible college. So, Tyler, you can totally feel where he's at. And he texts me and he's in the Introduction to Worldviews class. And so Kenny, if you're watching this, I love you. He's in the Introduction to Worldviews class and he texts me. He's like, wow, I didn't even know what I didn't know. He goes, you did this for six years? He's like, and one of his quest questions is like, describe the ultimate nature of reality, which is a philosophy one on one style question, but it's big in apologetics and worldviews. What lies behind all of reality? What foundation is behind all of reality? And I end up calling him. I'm like, dude, pump the brakes. This is why we go to college. This is why we get an education. This is why you expand your mind. You learn new things. And then he said what I think to me is one of the most wise statements, right? So he's gaining an education. He's learning intelligence, but he's intuitively wise. And he said, Bill, he's been in ministry for 10 years, by the way. Amazing young man. He's been in ministry for 10 years. And the primary thing he has learned in ministry for 10 years is leadership development and pipelining people into systems to grow the church numerically. He's an expert at it. I mean, he's been trained by every possible training course you can think of, of leadership development and pipelining. But he can't describe the Ten Commandments. He can't recount for you the parables of Jesus. Why? Because all of his training was built on growing the church numerically, not growing the church theologically. And he's been in ministry for 10 years. You know what he told me? He said, Bill, how did I make it 10 years as a professional pastor and not understand these basic things that are in this introduction class for me this semester? And he said, and then he said the most horrible statement, he said, maybe I shouldn't be a pastor anymore until I finish school. And I said, stop! Pull it over. I said, stop. I said, you've been called into ministry because the whole spirit has a call on your life and your education doesn't change that. Peter, Paul, James, John, none of them had bachelor's degrees. You serve God because you have a heart and you have a calling and that's enough. But now God is taking the blinders off and he's opening his world up to this giant world of Christian thinking. And then I told him about our church and how I strive to bring thinking ideas into our teachings every Sunday morning, like reviewing the big Bible story. And he actually went back and he watched one. He's like, Bill, I don't know that I knew all those answers. And I was like, OK, I don't think the church knew them all either. But after two years, y'all getting really good at it. There is something to be said for understanding God, not just following, not just obeying, but getting it. I feel super great that the actual disciples who breathed and ate with Jesus had moments where they didn't get it. So if that's you this morning, if you're watching us online and maybe you're not even sure if Jesus rose, like it's OK. I appreciate that. Email me. We will talk about it. But that's what I would need you to admit to yourself. I love Jesus. I follow Jesus. But I don't know that I always understand him that well. Because I feel that way a lot. The second crowd is the people who are seeking Jesus for what they want. These are the political seekers. They want freedom from the Romans. They want freedom to do what they want to do. They want the new job or the new car or the raise or that new contract. So I'm seeking Jesus not because I want relationship with him, not because of what he can do for me, but I mean, not for what I will do in his kingdom, but I'm seeking Jesus for what he does for me. I would say there's a lot of people who seek Jesus that way. I'm going to follow Jesus as long as it's good for me. Which means you've made yourself and your personal pleasure or your personal seeking the measuring stick of whether Jesus is good or not. Just like they did. Putting the palm branches down and if you read it, Hosanna, Hosanna, blessed, who comes in the name of the king, blessed is the king of Israel. Sounds like worship. Doesn't it? Sounds an awful lot like worship. But when you see the heart behind it, doesn't sound a whole lot like worship. It sounds a whole lot like, oh, blessed is the one who's going to give me what I want. Oh, blessed is the king who's going to give me a raise. Blessed is the king who's going to help me get my new car. Blessed is the king who's going to make sure that I get that promotion at work and not my coworker. Sounds a lot like worship, but is it really like, I don't know. And then the third group are the group who's just seeking Jesus because they want to see cool stuff. They're not committed. They're not even trying to understand. They're not committed. They just want to be entertained. They just want to see something cool that they've never seen before. All three of these groups don't see Jesus for who he really is. Now, because we finished Revelation, and I can tell you about Jesus, the conquering king who returns to restore the kingdom and to remake creation so that we live in his presence, right? We see Jesus for who he really is. None of them on this day, on April the 2nd, 80, 30, got the big picture. And they are so much closer historically, I mean, they were physically watching Jesus on Palm Sunday. Also, don't forget that the cheers of Palm Sunday became the jeers of Good Friday overnight. How fickle we are as people that when Jesus doesn't give us what we want and when we don't understand and when he stops doing the cool things that entertain us or give us the... So I'm going to pick on my Pentecostal Charismatic friends, right? When the worship no longer gives me the feels, it might not be good worship anymore. No, you might not be worshiping well if the feels is how you decide whether worship is good or not in the first place, right? We've got to separate out how we view Jesus from how we worship and follow him. We have to know who he is here in order for our following of him to be right. Now, am I saying that if you don't understand all the deep things of theology and apologetics, you're not saved? No, I'm not saying that. I mean, first to say, I do not believe there's a theology exam on the entrance to heaven. Because if there is, I don't want to go there either. I just want to serve Jesus, man. But I want to serve Jesus as the Messiah, Lord, Savior, and King that he is. And not the showman who shows me what I want. Or the feels guy, when the Holy Spirit gives me the feels, that's when I know what's good. No, I think the word of God tells us a lot about what's good and what's not, right? I want to live with character of Jesus, not just the fun part of Jesus. Can you control your thinking? Can you control your actions? Can you control your responses to where we reflect the character of Jesus? And I don't do that. I didn't do that yesterday, right? I'm moving and unpacking boxes, and I'm 100% lost my cool with my family. That's okay to say, like as the pastor, like I'm not a perfect human. I had to text my whole family an apology. Because I did not have the right character in that moment. I should have reflected. My wife, Lord bless her, she looks at me and she goes, you're not acting right. I said, you're right, I'm not acting right! True story. My children and my nieces were there, they'll tell you. Pastor Bill was not acting like Pastor Bill. Pastor Bill was acting like New Jersey Bill. And I tried really hard to keep him in the closet. No offense, because some of you live in Jersey. I'm not keeping you in the closet. No, just me. I think it's worth a little bit of laughter. Because this question is a deep one. When you came to this church today, who is Jesus in your mind? Who is Jesus in your thoughts? Because how you view him will directly affect how you follow him. And how you serve him. And how you obey him.