Good morning church. There we go. So now we got a few more people woken up this morning. Good morning. Welcome to catalyst. My name is Bill. If you don't get to know me, that's okay. I'm new and I'm still going to need to know everybody too. If you're joining us online this morning, welcome to our church. Thank you so much for being a part of our faith community. Now here at catalyst we're about one thing. And I know this because I've spoken to enough of you about it. We are relentless about loving people to life change. That's right. We are relentless about loving people to life change. And one of the ways that we do that is through being in community and expressing love to one another. So do me a favor. Turn to the person on your left and tell them I love you. Go ahead and do that. Right? Half of you just got confused about what your right was to your left. So do me a favor. Turn the other way and say I love you. Good. Got to get everybody woke up this morning. Everybody's got to feel good about coming to church. If you're watching this online, you need to know that this church family loves you. One of the other ways that we begin to change our lives and live the way Jesus intended us to live is by studying his words. Together in community. So I want you to do me a favor. Pull out your Bible, whether you brought it physical or digital. That's OK. We're going to start a brand new teaching series this morning entitled parables, the story, the Savior. Parables, the stories of the Savior. And this is really important. On every teaching series I bring you, I'm going to bring you a singular key thought. So here's the key thought. Jesus used stories to teach lessons. Now that may sound really simple at first. My faculty advisor, Dr. Taylor, and my college, he told me something very interesting that is really impacting me in the way to be a teacher. And he simply said, he said, Bill, if you can't teach a fourth grader, you can't teach. Now, this is a man who has two doctrines, one in theology and one in apologetics. This is not an uneducated man. He's a quite intelligent individual. But he made a simple point. You can't teach a fourth grader what you know. You can't teach. So I've taught over the past 10 years or so. I've taught series on the parables before. And it seems like every time I reteach it, the key thought gets simpler. It gets simpler. So Mr. Lee, here's my thought. Jesus used stories to teach lessons. And there's stories that are really important. He used stories to teach lessons. And there's two important things I need you to understand from this sentence. The first is, Jesus' parables are stories. Okay? So what does that mean? Well, what that means is, none of the people in the stories that Jesus told are real. None of the people in the stories that Jesus told are real. They are figments of the Savior's imagination put into a narrative to teach us a lesson. So when we come to a parable, the first thing we need to understand is, Jesus is telling a story. Stories have settings. Stories have characters. Stories have meaning. But the meaning of the story isn't always the lessons he's teaching. Okay? So Jesus uses stories to teach lessons. Now, if you'll turn in your Bibles with me to Luke chapter 10, turn or tap. For those of you like me, you would prefer to look at it on your phone or you can just scroll. The first thing I want to do is I want to read our text this morning, which is Luke chapter 10. We're going to go from verse 25 to verse 37. This might be, I'm saying might be, might be a familiar story to some of us. Luke chapter 10, beginning in verse 25. Here's the way Luke describes it. On one occasion, an expert in the law, Teacher, he asked, what must I do to inherit eternal life? What is written in the law? He replied, how do you read it? He answered, love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your might. And love your neighbor as yourself. You have answered correctly, Jesus replied. Do this and you will live. But wanting to justify himself, so he asked, but he wanted to justify himself, so he asked, and who is my neighbor? In reply, Jesus said, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he was attacked by robbers. They stripped him of his clothes, beat him and went away, leaving him half dead. A priest happened to be going down the same road, and when he saw the man, he passed by on the other side. So too a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came to where the man was, and when he saw him, he took pity on him. And he went to him and he bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. And he put the man on his own donkey, brought him to an inn and took care of him. The next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper. Look after him, he said, and when I return, I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have. Which of these do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of Robert? The expert in the law replied, The one who had mercy on him, Jesus told him, go and do likewise. Now this is a fairly familiar story to many of us who grew up in church. I grew up in church, I was in church on Sunday morning and on Wednesday night, and every Saturday it was open, and any other time my grandma thought I needed Jesus because I was being disobedient. We went to church. This is a story that I've grown up understanding, but as I have learned to study the word of God, as I have learned to break it down and prepare to teach it, I've learned that there's more that meets the eye to the story. All of my 80s G.I. Joe fans, you get that reference right? Show of hands, who loved G.I. Joe as a kid? Come on, somebody. Thank you, okay, I'm not out in the open. There's more to this story, so here's what I want to do. I want us to go back and walk through it verse by verse so I can point out some of the highlights that we've seen. So I can point out some of the highlights that we really need to understand because we can understand the story, and that's one level, right? So I was considering doing a kids sermon this morning and bringing all the kids up here, and I can teach the story and teach the meaning of the story, but the meaning of the story is not necessarily always the lesson that Jesus was teaching. And in order to understand that, we first have to understand how this story comes to be. Jesus is teaching a story. The first question we have to ask is, who is he teaching? Yes, on one hand, Paul is talking to us today, I get that, but that wasn't his original audience. So let's go back and look at verse 25. Verse 25 says this, on one occasion, an expert. Everybody do me a favor, I need a room full of air quotes. Let's do this. Expert, okay? Every time I say the word expert today, this is what you're going to do, ready? So an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus. So what is an expert? Come on, this is the interactive part of the sermon, right? Everybody's going to get a teaching and some exercise today. Expert. So here's what an expert is. They're a lawyer. The same word, in fact, if you have a different Bible translation this morning, it can say lawyer, it can say scholar, it can say scribe. So who is the expert? I see some of y'all are dragging. This person is someone who knows the law incredibly well. It's someone who studies the Old Testament scriptures. This is not some random uneducated Jew. This is somebody who has dedicated his life to the studying of the Jewish law. Now you have to remember, the way the law worked in first century Jewish society is not exactly the same as the way the Bible works for us today. Today we come to the word of God and we expect to get spiritual knowledge from it. But we don't live by the legal and ceremonial laws like the first century Jews did. They lived by the law and could be taken to court for being disobedient to the law. Today, if we go to court, you're being held to a legal standard but not a biblical standard. In the first century, those were the same thing. The scriptural standard and the legal standard were the same. So this person makes his living from understanding the nuances in the law. The expert, see some of y'all are on point, thank you, understood the nuances of the law. This is so important. Next, he stood up to test Jesus. So the other thing I need you to understand about this story is the person who's talking to Jesus, the quote unquote, well see I didn't say it yet, y'all get ahead of me, expert, the lawyer, the scholar, the scribe, he's not talking to Jesus to learn from him. He's talking to Jesus to school him. This is somebody who's got a heart issue. He doesn't really know who he's talking to. I got to be honest, I consider myself an educated person. Leah, I consider myself an intellectual person. But I'm pretty sure I don't know more than Jesus. Right? Like that's an amen moment right there. I try to do my best to bring you a great teaching every week. But I am pretty sure I don't know more than Jesus. This individual, the expert, he believed he knew more than Jesus about the law. And he says this, he says to test him, and then he uses the word teacher. I think it's a sign of respect. Jesus at this point was a well-respected teacher. The word teacher refers to anybody who teaches in a local synagogue. So by the time of the first century, yes, there's a temple in Jerusalem. That's where the sacrifices and all that cool jazz happened. But there's also local centers of religious teaching in every town. They're called synagogues. So the expert in the law uses a term for Jesus that recognizes him as someone who teaches in a synagogue. So that's just now let's go to verse 26. I don't know. Sorry. 25, the last part of it. What must I do to inherit eternal life? Now that you understand the lawyer, the scholar, the person who's asking the question, now look at the question itself. Is this person asking Jesus to genuinely learn the truth? I think not. I think this person is asking Jesus the question to show that he knows more, that he is better than, he is greater than the Savior Messiah. So understand the heart that's going on here because this is the person to whom Jesus tells the story. He says, what must I do to inherit eternal life? That's my pretentious scholar voice right there. Excuse me, Jesus. What must I do to inherit eternal life? He's not looking to learn from Jesus. He's looking to school Jesus and show anybody else in the room that he was smarter than the Savior. Look at verse 26. Could Jesus have just answered the question? Yeah. Is Jesus not an authority on salvation? Does Jesus know what it takes to be saved? Yes or no? Is Jesus not an authority on salvation? Yes or no? Could Jesus have just answered the question outright? Yes. Does Jesus do that? No, he doesn't. Look at what Jesus appeals to. Jesus says, what is written in the law? Jesus knows the heart of man, right? First Samuel tells us this. Humans look on the outside, but God knows the heart. Jesus knows the heart of the man. He knows the man is an expert in the law and so he lets the man let his knowledge loose. Father, you want to show off your brain? I'm going to give you a chance. So Jesus appeals to the authority of scripture and he says, what is written in the law? How do you read it? He gives the man exactly what he wants. A pulpit to show how written he is. How brilliant he thinks he is. That's what the expert wants. A chance to show Jesus how brilliant he thinks he is. So Jesus says, okay, man, okay, bro, you're the lawyer, you're the scholar, you're the scribe. What is written in the law, how do you read it? Verse 27, he answers, love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, with all your might, and love your neighbor as yourself. Now keep in mind, this guy's job is to know the Old Testament scriptures. So I don't know if your Bible has it or not, but it should have some footnotes in there. This little sentence right here, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind, and love your neighbor as yourself, is a combination of two different Old Testament passages. The first is Deuteronomy chapter six. Any of you Old Testament people who know Deuteronomy six opens with the Shema, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, it's a giant statement of faith for Jews. But the second part, love your neighbor as yourself, is also from the Old Testament. It's from Leviticus chapter 19, verse 18, except he doesn't quote the whole verse. And here's where we're about to take a major jaunt. If you don't get this point, I believe you don't get the point of what Jesus is teaching you. So if you have your Bibles, turn with me to Leviticus chapter 19. I don't think I put it in the notes, so I'm going to read it to you. This is the entire verse as it reads in the NIV. Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against anyone among your people, but love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. That's the whole verse. Now, does the expert know the verse he's quoting? Yeah, he's not an idiot. Jesus is the Lord. Jesus gives him a chance to show off his knowledge, and he's going to do just that. He's going to show off how much of the Old Testament law he knows. So he knows the whole verse, not just the little part that he quoted for us that Luke reports in the New Testament. Hear it again. Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against anyone among your people. Now, if you brought your actual Bible or you're on your phone, highlight, underline, circle, long press, take out a crayon and draw on your phone screen, do something. The words among your people in Leviticus 19, 18, is going to tell you everything you need to know to understand what Jesus is actually teaching in this passage in Luke. Jesus tells him, verse 28, you have answered correctly. Good job. Now just go do this and you will live. Jesus offers the expert the opportunity to show off his Old Testament knowledge. He correctly quotes from the law of God and Jesus says, great, man, just go do it. You go do that, you'll be fine. Jesus was from the back door. You're right. But look at verse 29. Now we're back in Luke, verse 29. But he wanted to justify himself. Now we're back to describing. See, I haven't even made it to the parable yet. We got to get the setting right. We're back to looking at the person Jesus is speaking with. He wants to justify himself. Now I know the word justify, justification. That's a giant theological word. Paul makes a huge use of it in several of his letters. What does it really mean? When we are justified, we are viewed as righteous in God's eyes. Also I could say viewed as not guilty in God's eyes. So here's the problem that the expert has. He knows the law. He knows what the law says. But in his heart, he wants the opportunity to make himself righteous rather than be obedient. Jesus just says, hey man, if you would just go do what the scriptures say, you'd be fine. Remember, what was the original question? Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? Right? The whole question, the whole scene starts out from a self-righteous heart. Teacher, let's see if you know as much as I do. Let me see if you know the Bible as well as I do. That's the heart behind the scene. And Jesus says, fine. You totally answered the question correctly. Bro, just go do it. Go do it and you'll be fine. And yet in verse 29, he responds, wanting to justify himself. The heart on the inside, I want to be in charge of my righteousness. I want to be in charge of how holy I am. I don't want my obedience to determine my righteousness. I want my opinions. That's a big difference. Is righteousness by our obedience or by our opinions? This gentleman right here wants his own opinions to be the determination of how righteous he is. Who is my neighbor? That little four-word question is the question to which Jesus then unloads the parable of the Good Samaritan. Who is my neighbor? Why does he ask the question? You have your finger in Leviticus 19. Remember, it says, do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against anyone among your people but love your neighbor. So the lawyer knows that he has to obey scripture. But what he's giving himself the option to do is limit the scope of how to obey Leviticus 19. He says, oh, all I have to do is don't seek revenge or bear a grudge against anyone among your people. And the lawyer goes, that's cool. You don't live on my street. So I don't have to love you as a neighbor. You don't have the same skin color as I do. So I don't have to love you as a neighbor. You don't worship the same God that I do. So I don't have to love you as my neighbor. See, this is the setting to which Jesus tells the story. Jesus is telling the story to a hyper-religious, self-righteous person who wants to give himself the right to limit his scope of obedience. And he says here, then who is my neighbor? Jesus, you spell it out for me and I'll treat everybody in this category the way the Bible tells me to. But everybody outside of this category, y'all can go to hell. That's exactly what he's saying. I'm not gonna be concerned about anyone outside of this scope because this is how I interpret the Old Testament. That's the setting to the story. So the expert asks, who is my neighbor? And it is to this question that Jesus now replies with the parable. All of that I just gave you is the setting to interpret the story. If you don't get the setting right, the story teaches a moral lesson. It totally does. But without understanding the conversation and everybody that's in play, you can get the lesson from the story and not get the lesson Jesus is laying down. And I would say most of the time, I hear this passage taught, we focus on the story and not Jesus and the quote unquote expert. So now let's look at the story that Jesus teaches. So let's go to verse 30. So let's go to verse 30. In reply, in reply to what? In reply to the question, who is my neighbor? This is not like a sermon on the mount scene where Jesus just walks up on stage and says, hey Lee, so there was this man going down a road. It doesn't open cold. It opens with the setting that we just gave it. In reply to the who is my neighbor question, Jesus says, a man is going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he's attacked by robbers. Let's take just that sentence. Now we don't live in the Old Testament era. We don't even live in the Middle East. Now I tell you this, and I get the beautiful advantage of really understanding this passage because y'all know I just moved here. I had a victory this week. Frank, guess what I was able to do? I drove from home to work and back without my GPS. Right? Come on, I'll take the applause for that. I suck at directions. You need to know that. Google Maps tells me how to get everywhere, including Walmart. But here's what's funny. All of you find that funny because you're familiar with the geography of the area. Right? You guys know how to get to Walmart. Paul's got to show me where Chick-fil-A is just so I can get lunch. And why is it always I want Chick-fil-A on a Sunday? Is that just me? Is there anybody else who really, really craves those waffle fries on a Sunday? So here's what's cool. You guys all understand the geography of the area. So when I tell you, oh, hey, we're going to run over to that Walmart. We're going to run over to that Chick-fil-A. You immediately understand it. Tell me what you know about the road from Jerusalem to Jericho. Exactly. And if we don't get this, we're going to miss a lot of what Jesus's intended audience understood. So here's what I want you to know. The road from Jerusalem to Jericho is approximately 17 miles long. It snakes down a mountainside. And in those 17 miles, it changes 3,300 feet in elevation. Let me say that again. This is a snaky road going down a mountainside 17 miles long that changes over 3,000 feet in elevation in those 17 miles. It snakes down a mountainside filled with caves, boulders, rocks, tons of places to hide. Jesus's audience knows this. The expert, quote unquote, knows this. Just as easily as I can tell you, go to the corner of 896 and 40, head north, and somebody can tell me what's right there. I can't, right? Because you know the geography. So Jesus places the story, fictional story, in a real setting. Jesus places the story in a real setting that was known as Thieves Road. Jesus knows his people. He knows his geography. He places the story in a very likely context. Somewhere where people are normally getting mugged. I'll leave that to your view. But Jesus is not accidental in this. And also notice the person who is harmed is never named. Because the person who is harmed isn't really the focus. It's the setting, but it's not the focus. A man is traveling from Jerusalem to Jericho. He's hiking down a mountainside, back and forth, caves and rocks and lots of people get mugged. And the robbers come out, they strip him of his clothes, they beat him, and they went away leaving him half dead. So Jesus sets up a story. I don't know if any of you have ever been hiking. But imagine going hiking and getting jumped by a group of unsavory individuals who take all of your stuff, including your clothes, beat you bloody and leave you in the dust, naked on a mountainside. That's the setting that Jesus gives us for the story. Then three people come by and these three people are specific. Remember they're fictional. They're not fictional. They're based on real people, but none of the people in this story are actual real people. They're chosen because of the audience. So who's the audience for the parable? The expert. That's right. I heard somebody say it. That's the audience. So the first person that comes by, verse 31, a priest happened to be going down the same road. What are priests? Priests are people who serve in Jerusalem, in the temple, leading the worship of God. Why is this important? Because they're not real people. Why is this important? Well, who's the story being told to? The lawyer, the expert, right? Do you think he looks up to the priests? Yeah. He's a Bible teacher at a synagogue. These people do the big show in Jerusalem. So Jesus has selected a character who would mean an awful lot to his audience. Someone he expects to do the right thing. And Jesus says, fine, there is a priest who happened to be going down the same road. So now the priest is in the same unsavory location as the gentleman who just got jumped in mud. And he sees the man. Jesus makes sure, one detail in the story, you can't mistake for the fact the priest missed it. He didn't mistake it. He looked at the man, naked, bleeding, in the dirt. Possibly unconscious, maybe crying for help. Those details aren't given. What is given is, here comes a priest. He sees the person and passes by on the other side, callously. Then, who's the next character walks by? Look at verse 32. A Levite. So what's a Levite? A Levite is someone who assists the priests in the worship in God's temple. Levites are your worship team. They're the people who are used to being in church. They're used to leading God's people. You expect them to have a certain righteousness in their character. The Levite walks by. What does he do? Also, passes by on the other side. Then in verse 33, a Samaritan walks by. Now we gotta stop. How does the audience of the parable, the expert, view the priest with respect? How does he view the Levite with respect? How does the expert view the Samaritan with contempt, with hate? Why? Well, the Samaritans and the Jews have a racial hatred for one another. The Jews hate the Samaritans and the Samaritans hate the Jews right back. That's what makes the conversation with Jesus and the woman in the well in John chapter 4 so amazing. That's why she said, why are you a Jew speaking to me a Samaritan? The Samaritan woman understood. Y'all hate us and we hate you. Why are we talking right now? I mean, that's John 4. I don't need to go there, but we're in Luke right now. The Samaritans and the Jews have a deep internal racial hatred for one another. Do not erase the racism from the Samaritans and the Jews. Do not erase the racism from this passage or you're going to miss it. This is racism in the first century at its best. Now I can unwind for you the history and explain how the Samaritans helped the Assyrians and the Babylonians conquer the Jews and then they moved them away and I can give you all the history. Here's what I need you to know. Jews are racist towards Samaritans and Samaritans are racist towards Jews. You think that racism is in the Bible, you're just not digging deep enough to see it's there. How does the lawyer, the scholar, the expert view the Samaritan? He's the one person in the story who I absolutely hate. I refer to the Good Samaritan as the hated hero. Jesus chooses the one person his audience will hate, and I mean that, thinks that they are less than themselves. Jews view the Samaritans as half-bloods. Any Harry Potter fans? These are your muggles. Okay? They're half-bloods. They're not as good as we are. I was born better than you and throughout your whole life I'll always be better than you because you are half what I am. That's the way the scholar, the lawyer, the expert views the Samaritan and yet Jesus chooses the Samaritan as the hero of the story. Why? Mainly because he's trying to challenge the expert. So look at verse 34. Unlike the priest and the Levi, he, meaning the Samaritan, went to him, so he closed distance where the priest and the Levi did not. He bandaged his wounds. He did something about it where the priest and Levi did not. He put the man on his own donkey. Now here's two things I need you to understand. What does that tell you about the financial status of the Samaritan? Brother's got money. Why? What was the primary means of travel in the first century? People walked. Right? And donkeys. Who could afford donkeys? People who could buy them. So without knowing anything else, I understand that the hero of this story is someone who is racially hated but has got money to spare, which would make the Jews even more angry. But what happens when the Samaritan puts the man on his own donkey? How does the Samaritan now travel? Walked. The Samaritan not only closed distance where the two did not, he not only immediately took his own supplies to bandage the wounds, but the Samaritan had to travel the rest of the road on foot because he put the wounded man on his donkey. So now the Samaritan had to travel harder in order to care for the wounded man. And then he takes him to an inn and he took care of him. I don't know, but I mean, I mean, how many people travel for business? Right? Anybody? Okay, a couple people who travel for business. When was the last time you were traveling for business and put all of your business on hold to help one random guy on the street? That is exactly what happened here. The Samaritan had the money, he had the means, he had the reputation. He got an inn, he got a room at the inn and he cared for the wounded man. Look at verse 35. What's the first three words of verse 35? The next day. That means whatever the Samaritan's plans were, they all went go bye bye. What did he do? He spent the entire rest of the day and the night after caring for the wounded man. Then he took out two denarii, two denarii. What is a denarii? A denarii is approximately one day's wage. It's paid for one full day's worth of work. So the Samaritan not only put him on his donkey, not only paid to take him to an inn, but then pulls out his own money. And what does he do? He gives them to the innkeeper and says, look after him. He said, when I return, I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have. The Samaritan put his own money and his own reputation on the line. All things that the priest and the Levite were unwilling to do. And remember, this is the hated hero. Now in verse 36, we come back out of the fictional story and we come back to the real life conversation between the expert and Jesus. Which of these three do you think was a neighbor? Why is the word neighbor so important? Go back to Leviticus 19, 18. The lawyer had tried to limit the scope of who his neighbor was in order to make it easier to be obedient to the law. He's trying to control his own righteousness. So Jesus lays up this entire story and shows that the priest was callous, shows that the Levite was callous, shows that the Levite was callous, which shows that the one dude that you totally hate is the hero. Why? Because he acted instead of ignoring. All of that to challenge this question, who was a neighbor? Why does Jesus answer a question with a question? Because the four words that brought us into the passage are who is my neighbor. So Jesus tells this entire story to correct the expert's understanding and the expert gets it. Oh, the one who had mercy on... I can just see the dude rolling his eyes because he knows Jesus has got him. There's no way out of the story and the lesson the Savior is going to give us. The one who had mercy on him. And Jesus says, go and do like that. What is the story of the Good Samaritan about? It's about exactly the way it looks. Always being ready to care for someone you need. But what is the lesson that Jesus is teaching? Here's where we got to go another level deeper. This parable, in my opinion, the parable, not the story, what's the lesson Jesus is teaching? This parable is not about servanthood or about evangelism. It is about a self-righteous limiting of obedience to the Scriptures because that's what the lawyer was doing. This parable was told to target one heart issue, who is my neighbor? The expert in the law had given himself the right to reinterpret Scripture to make it easier to obey. You and I today, we do not get the right to decide how we should obey the Bible. We simply must obey it. Any effort on our part to interpret, limit, or change our obedience to Scripture is the self-righteous sin that the expert was guilty of. So to put this into a modern day perspective, give me a little bit of leeway, I would like to retell this story to you in our modern day context. So who is our neighbor for Catalyst Community Church? Simple. There was a man walking in downtown Wilmington straight up got mugged. Brother took his wife and went to the hospital Brother took his wallet, his phone, his car keys, left him naked, bleeding right there on the gutter. There's a pastor happens to be walking down the street. The pastor looks one look at the naked, bleeding, homeless guy who needs help, turns and walks away. Right after the pastor, here comes a group of deacon and worship leader people. People you see all the time in church. You would expect them to do the right thing. Guess what they do? They nod right there. If I talk to them, they nod right there. The worship leaders and the deacons, they go the other way. They don't have any time to look. Then out of the dark, right underneath the street lights, comes a gay atheist pastor. And that person stops to help the leaders. Then picks him up, takes him down the street, takes him to his friend's house. Hey man, I need to borrow your room. Give me the first aid kit. We need to help this guy. Go grab me some clothes. Hey, I've got an appointment. I've got to go to the doctor tomorrow. Here, here's my credit card. Charge whatever you need to care for this person. Let's get him back on his feet. Who did the right thing? Not us. All of a sudden, when I change the characters out, I change the setting out, the story seems to sting an awful lot more, doesn't it? Because there's plenty of people who go to church every single Sunday thinking they're just righteous. Because for some reason, we've given ourselves the right to decide how we obey. That's the story of the Good Samaritan. So here's my question to you. Every Sunday, I'm going to try to do two things. Every Sunday when I come up here, I'm going to try to do two things. Number one, I'm going to try to teach you something. And then number two thing I need to try to do is motivate you to do something. Because if I stand up here and give you a really cool story and teach you a couple of details that you didn't know, but I don't challenge you to change, then I haven't challenged you, then I haven't really helped you. I haven't done anything more than just give you more reasons to be self-righteous. So let's not stop there. So Paul, do me a favor, put that last slide up. It's got my email on it. So here's my question. And I'm going to just say, in what area, in what area have you decided to give yourself permission to limit the scope of your obedience to Scripture? I guarantee you we all do it. I think that's why the Gospels are so filled with the humanity. Sometimes we see Jesus, we see Peter, we see John, and we see them in these titans of faith. You forget that Jesus denied Peter three times. Jesus is the same guy who walked on water and then fell under it and had to be rescued by Jesus. Luke is a Gentile. He wasn't even a Jew. He wasn't even saved until likely at least at Pentecost or after. Where in your life have you decided that it's okay to be limitedly obedient to Scripture? Okay, how about this one? When was the last time you went out and tried to share your faith with somebody? I was going to really make it. That was my first Sunday which was going to get everybody mad. Right? You don't have to raise your hand to this, but how many of you just thought the pastor that's your job? At least one of you at least one of you, I guarantee you. Because for some reason we've created a culture in America where it's my job to be the teacher and the preacher and the evangelist and it's your job to come to church and give money. That's not the way the New Testament works, sorry. Every one of you is responsible to share your story. You don't have to share all the details that I just did, but every one of you should have a story about what Jesus did in your life. Because if you don't have a story about what Jesus did in your life, then maybe he didn't do anything yet. So where in your life and here's what I want. Everybody get your air quotes ready, right? I want you to say this after me. I am not an expert. I am not an expert. You and I must accept that the scriptures are not there for us to choose how we obey them. They are there for us to choose how we obey them. They are there for us to obey them. Now I know when I was here a few months ago, I talked a lot about having a connection card and making next steps at the end of the sermon. I specifically asked Ms. Donna to not prep a paper connection card because within the next couple of months we're going to have a digital connection card that you can fix right on your phone. It's going to make things so much easier both for the back office to be able to process it and for me to follow up. So here's what I want you to do. Every single adult in the room pull out your cell phone. I'm sure most of you brought one. Pull out your cell phone. I want you to open a brand new email on whatever your whatever your email app is on your phone and I want you to type that email address in. If you're joining us online this morning you're not out of it. I want you to pull out your phone, your laptop, your iPad, go grab your kids kindle fire that's got your email account on it, something. But you are going to have to participate just like everybody else here. Just because you're on the other side of the screen does not mean you're off the hook. I want everybody to open a brand new email and I want you to send in the two, write pastorbill at catalyst302.com. I'm going to give you a couple of next steps this morning. I need everybody to choose to take a next step because if you don't you're letting yourself be the expert. What you're doing is you're saying, no, no, no, no, pastor, I'm good. I've already determined that I am as obedient as scripture as I need to be. Guess what? That's not true. Every one of us needs to take a next step to being more obedient. So here it is. Next step number one. Maybe you're here this morning or you're watching and you realize, man, I really do need a relationship with Jesus. Maybe I don't know what that means. If that's your next step today, that's what you write in that email. Pastor, I need help starting a relationship with Jesus. That's where the whole story starts. The entire journey of growing in faith starts with the first step of admitting you're not the expert. Jesus is the expert. We learn from him. We follow him. We emulate him. Second next step. Man, I came to Jesus but I don't ever remember being baptized. I went up into our Baptistry this week just to look at it, just to understand it, just to figure out how we're going to start using it on a regular basis. I love Baptism. I think in a couple of weeks when I get a chance to talk about why Baptism is so important, to me it is one of the most underused tools in Christianity. It's not just some random time where people just get to get wet at church. There's a whole lot of symbolism and life change that happens in this moment where I publicly say, guess what? My old life of sin is gone. My new life of righteousness is here. Oh, by the way, you church community, hold me accountable to be the new person that I claim I be. All of that takes place in Baptism. It's so cool. If you've not been baptized, you need to be. Or maybe you got baptized as a kid and you're like, wow, maybe I need to like redo that, like get serious about it. I don't, I'm not against baptizing someone a second time. Maybe you didn't understand all this then and you want to make a difference today. If that's your next step, put that in. Pastor, I want to talk to you about getting baptized. I need to repent of self-righteousness. There's at least 10 people in this room that that's you. I'm just going to let you know. In any group of Christians, there's always the people who say, yeah, pastor, I know I'm good enough. No, you're really not. None of us are good enough. That's the whole point of the gospel. None of us are good enough. If you can identify an area of your life where you don't like, I'm obedient to scripture all the way up until this one. I'm obedient to scripture up until the way I do this, the way I watch that or the way I talk about this or the relationship I have with XYZ person or ABC person. I'm not a legalist, but I'll tell you this. I think everybody can be a little more righteous. Number four, I need to repent of being disobedient. Maybe there's an area of your life that you've just for some reason given yourself permission to be disobedient to God and you just overlook it. And here's the problem. Once you sin enough and sin by definition is disobedient to God, right? Once you sin enough in an area, you get callous to it. You get inoculated to it. You get inoculated to it. You stop seeing it for the evil, disgusting, stinky thing that it is being disobedient to God. Maybe there's an area of your life the Holy Spirit is knocking on your heart saying, man, I need to change here. Pastor, I need help. Wilt, fill in the blank. Here's the cool thing. By doing it on your phone, no one else in this room or this church is going to know other than me what you say. That's why I want you to have a digital card on your phone so we get a little bit of privacy between the pastor and the congregation. Nobody else sees it because it goes right into my inbox. And then finally, the fifth one. Pastor, I really need to talk about my spiritual health. I don't think I'm quite as bad as the expert, but I'm not really where I want to be. I'll tell you this at the beginning of the year, one of the best spiritual disciplines you can get into is building a plan for how you're going to grow this year. Everybody builds New Year's resolutions. I don't do that. I build New Year's growth plans. I want to read X number of books this year. I want to grow in X area of my Christian faith. Man, I need to develop a prayer life. I need to be better at Bible study. You know, I read about fasting, but I have no idea what that mess is. I need to learn about this. Every one of us has an area in which we can grow. My question to you is which area will you grow? Pick one and then hit send button. Those will go into my inbox when I come into work Tuesday morning. I'm going to look at them on my phone I'm going to look at them all and I'm going to email you back. I'm going to say, hey, we need to get an appointment and we need to get a coffee and we need to get a milkshake and we need to get a burger and we need to talk about whatever that thing is. This is how the service all of a sudden becomes interactive. I do not want church services where people just sit there and leave unchanged. I want church services where people walk in and are drastically changed by the power of the Spirit not by my own personal good books and guidance. This is all you get. Sorry. If you were expecting better I apologize. I think I look the same as when you hired me. This is all you get. But the Holy Spirit who's here because we are here he's in the people changing business. All I need you to do is open that email if you're watching online guess what? The Holy Spirit travels good for you. He's omnipresent just like Jesus and God the Father. I need you to fill in that bubble that says, Pastor, here's where I need to grow this week and hit send button. I will follow up with you this week and we're going to start the process of being a whole lot less self-righteous. Church I love you. Thank you so much. All right.