Father, we thank you so much that you are a living hope, God. Father, we thank you for this morning. We thank you for the praise, team, Father, for Pastor Bill and his family. Lord, I pray that you'll be with us today. Open our eyes for the message that the pastor's about to lay on our hearts. God, we thank you for the ability to worship freely. Lord, we thank you for all the many day-to-day blessings, Father, that we take for granted. The preacher will be with us today. Lord, you're over us. Keep us safe on the way home. Well, good morning. Good morning. Here, hold on. I'm just going to put that right there. Good morning, catalyst. Good morning. So glad to see all of you this morning, even though there's the beautiful white sprinklies outside. Thank you for braving the incredible Arctic weather and all your snow dogs and coming out to church today. If you're joining us online for the first time, welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. We're about one thing and one thing only here at our church, and that is loving people to life change. And one of the ways that we change to be more like Jesus is by studying his word together. So this morning, I want to continue our teaching series entitled parables, the stories of the Savior. Now, this series has a singular key thought that we're trying to weave through all of that, and that is that Jesus used stories to teach lessons. Jesus used stories to teach lessons. So each time we look at it, we have to understand, A, I'm looking at a story, and B, the Savior is trying to teach me a lesson that's more than just that. And now, the rest of the story. See? For some of you who knew who that was, right? Gospel according to Paul Harvey. So this morning's message, and it's going to sound a little funny, but I promise it'll make sense. The title of this morning's message is called the parables, plural, of the lost. The parables of the lost. So if you brought your Bibles with you, whether they're physical or digital, turn with me to Luke chapter 15. So Luke's the third gospel in the New Testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Something that makes the book of Luke unique amongst the Bible books is that Luke is the only book, well, Luke and Acts together, the only books written by a known Gentile author. So all of these, some of the books of the Bible, there's some debate and discussion about who wrote them. But of the books that we know who the authors are, Luke, Acts, which really is, you know, a part one and a part two. Luke, Acts is the preamble, or Luke is the preamble, and Acts is this sequel. Luke, Acts is written by a Gentile Christian, not a Jewish convert to Christianity. So we're going to look at Luke chapter 15. We're going to start reading in verse one, go down to verse 10, and then we're going to look at these first two parables together. So this is Luke chapter 15, verse one. Now, the tax collectors and sinners were all gathering around to hear Jesus. But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law muttered, this man welcomes sinners and eats with them. Then Jesus told this parable, suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them. Doesn't he leave the 99 in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it? And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders and goes home. Then he calls his friends and neighbors together and says, rejoice with me. I found my lost sheep. I tell you that in the same way, there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who need to not repent. Verse eight, or suppose a woman has 10 silver coins and loses one. Doesn't she light a lamp, sweep the house and search carefully until she finds it? And when she finds it, she calls her friends and neighbors together and says, rejoice with me. I have found my lost coin. In the same way I tell you, there is rejoicing in the presence of the angels over one sinner who repents. Now, this is commonly referred to as the parable of the lost sheep and the parable of the lost coin. We're going to take them together because Jesus is teaching the same message. And then next week, we will conclude parables, which was probably Jesus's most famous story of all time, which is commonly referred to as the parable of the prodigal son. I'm going to tell you that's absolutely the wrong title, but you have to wait till next week to learn why. So let's take a look at this. Let's go back to verse one and break down what's going on here. So in verse one, it says now. Now, you notice that's a little different than then. Last couple of weeks, we've jumped into a story midway and had to go back for the context. See, this verse one is the context. Luke is saying now. Now, if you study all of Luke acts, you're going to notice that Luke likes to tell stories in pictures of moments. Now, anybody know what was Luke's profession before he became a Christian? That's right. He was a physician. He was a physician and he was copious about taking notes. So the preamble to Luke acts is at the very beginning of the gospel of Luke. He said, I have carefully investigated these things, O most excellent theophilist, so you may know the truth of what you have been taught. It's a great verse for those who love apologetics. Luke studied, he double checked, he checked his sources, he wrote quality history so we would know the truth of what we have been taught. And so here's what's going on. Now, the tax collectors and sinners. So if you have your physical Bibles, I want you to underline the word tax collector and the word sinner. Because this is going to be super important. If we miss verse one, we're going to misunderstand the rest of the chapter. So now tax collectors and sinners were all gathering around Jesus. So tax collector, sinner and the word all. So Jesus is now teaching a group of people. That group of people is comprised of two subgroups. The first group is tax collectors. Now tax collectors and sinners were all gathering around Jesus, verse two. But the Pharisees and teachers of the law muttered. I want you to understand Pharisees, underline Pharisees and teachers of the law. So between verses one and two, I now see Jesus, or Luke has given me tax collectors and sinners. There's one group over here. And Pharisees, teachers of the law, that's another group over here. Now go back to verse one really quick and notice what the tax collectors and sinners are doing. They are gathering around to hear Jesus. So I want us to be very clear about who Jesus is talking to and what their motivations are. Right? So it's very important to understand the people. And I think it's important we also get, a lot of times when we read the Bible, we can be lulled into a false sense of that all of these people are like super holy or super sinful. No, these are real people. They're real people who lived in a time before ours. You know, they didn't have smart phones, didn't have Snapchat, Instagram, but they still were people who loved to communicate. And so I see here tax collectors. Now what is a tax collector? A tax collector is the most hated person in Jewish society. If there's anybody listening to this message that works for the IRS, I love you. I'll pray for you, okay? I don't know that that's like the thing you go home to brag to Auntie and Uncle about at Thanksgiving. I work for the IRS. Well, here's why Jewish tax collectors are hated even more than the IRS's in America. See, a Jewish tax collector, who do they actually work for? No. Jewish tax collectors work for Rome. They collect Jewish money and give it to Roman hands. And this was viewed as a massive cultural defiance. See, remember in that first century, Jews are an occupied territory. Rome is a totalitarian military force that said, we're going to take you over or kill you, you Jews. The Romans did not suffer fools and they did not suffer disobedience. And multiple times in history, you could see the Romans just come in and absolutely step on people. So the Jews are once again being held under the boot of a pagan society. And the tax collectors are, for those of you who like American history, here's your moment. The tax collectors are the Benedict Arnold's of the first century. For those of you who haven't made it that far in American history, they're traders, okay? The tax collectors, thank you, Micah. The tax collectors, I just realized I'm using a reference that somebody who hasn't gone that far in history is not going to get it. The tax collectors are the traders to their own people. They are collecting money from Jews and giving it to pagan Roman hands. They are the lowest of the low of the Jewish social ladder. Whoever the Jewish Kardashians are, they're way up here. And whoever the tax collectors are, they're the lowest of the low. They're traders to your own people. We hate you. That's who tax collectors are. And sinners. Sinners doesn't just mean someone who sins, right? So when we read that today, we have a New Testament understanding. We're like, well, we're all sinners, so these people aren't that bad. That's not exactly the intended audience that Luke has in mind. Luke has in mind people whose lives are defined by their sin. This is not just somebody who occasionally sins or I'm a sinner theologically, but I don't actively sin. No, when Luke lays up tax collectors and sinners, he's identifying the lowest of the low. Because remember, Jewish society is a theocracy, right? They're ruled by their priests and their teachers, and they all have to go to the temple and shed blood for forgiveness. Their entire society is built around the law of Moses and the Sinaitic covenant from the Old Testament. So somebody who chooses to actively live in sin is looked down upon, which to me is hilarious for anybody who's ever read the Old Testament. Old Testament Jews were as pagan as everybody else. They were just called to be greater. So when Luke lays up this audience, I've got tax collectors, traders to your own people. We hate you. And sinners, people whose lives are defined by the sin of their life. That's who the first verse is referring to. And what did they come to do? They came to hear. The verb hear. Now keep in mind, Luke is a Gentile. So Luke did not write his writing in Hebrew. He wrote it in Greek. The Greek word that Luke uses, and he's an educated man because he's a doctor, so we should trust the Holy Spirit working through his smart doctor brain, to hear is to listen with the understand of understanding. Have you ever heard somebody who's listening to you, but they ain't really hearing you? Right? Has anybody ever heard? I know you're listening to me, but bro, you're not hearing me. That's what Luke is saying. They're not just listening to Jesus and the words going in one ear and out the other. No, they're listening to Jesus to hear him. That's verse one. I'm listening to Jesus to hear him. That's half of Jesus' audience. Tax collectors, traders, sinners defined by sin, hearing the Savior. Now we go to verse two. Here's the other half of Jesus' audience. Pharisees. So now who are they? Well, let's talk about first century Jewish society. First century Jewish society is run by religious teachers. They're run by a singular court. Does anybody know what it's called? It starts with an S. The Sanhedrin. That's right. I hear it. They're run by the Sanhedrin, which is 70 plus one. And in the Sanhedrin, kind of like our modern day Congress, they're divided into two parties. So within the Sanhedrin, you have two parties. You have the Pharisees and you have the Sadducees. That's right. But there's a major difference between these two groups. They don't agree. Theologically, they don't agree. See, Pharisees believe in all of the books of the Old Testament are the Word of God. The Sadducees only believe in the first five books of the Old Testament. Everything else is not God's Word. They literally took the rest of the Old Testament, threw it out, and said, Nope, if it's not in Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus numbers, or Deuteronomy, see I'm just making sure everybody's awake. If it's not in those five books, we don't believe it. Whereas the Pharisees, they believe all of the same books that you and I believe are God's Word, they believe are God's Word. You know what's really funny? Jesus theologically had more in common with the Pharisees than he did the Sadducees, and the Pharisees still called for his death. But that's a whole other sermon for another day. So the Pharisees, here's the other thing you need to know about these people. They're the smaller group within the Sanhedrin. They're lesser in number, but greater in influence. They're lesser in number, but greater in influence. So when the Pharisees are walking through the marketplace, they're getting noticed. They are the more influential guys, even though they are less in number. The Sadducees also align themselves with Rome. The Pharisees align themselves with the Arianic priesthood from the Old Testament. So there's some more division between these two groups. So the Pharisees, super hyper religious, super holy people, and very legalistic. I've got to say that if you're not familiar. Legalistic means I'm righteous because I follow rules, follow laws. They were so legalistic that they wrote their own rules called the hedge around the law. So like if you're not supposed to work on the Sabbath, the Pharisees wrote all of these additional rules. They're like, well, I'm not even going to do this and I'm not going to do this. And they're like comparing how holy they are, but what they don't do. It's kind of silly when you think about it. Then teachers of the law. Does anybody remember what word does this bring to your mind? Expert. That's right. That's who these people are. In fact, it's the same word in Greek. The teachers of the law are the experts. They're the people who know the law. They study the law. They teach the law in synagogues, not necessarily always at the temple. So the group, the group that's mentioned in verse two, this is your religious folks. This is your high society. This is the people who are in charge. But look at what they're doing in verse one. The tax collectors and the sinners defined by sin are listening to Jesus to hear him. In verse two, the people who are supposed to represent God aren't listening at all. They're grumbling, complaining. The NIV says muttering. They're also in the group, but they're not there to learn. They're there to judge. They're there to complain. And please do not raise your hand or elbow your neighbor. But does anybody know somebody like that? The moment you talk to them, the first thing out of their mind, I said don't elbow your neighbor. They're complaining, right? Oh my gosh. Can Duncan not make a good cup of coffee? Oh, you know, like the moment you start talking to them, all of a sudden complaining is the first thing to come out of their lips, right? That's who verse two is talking about. So before I even get into the parables that Jesus is teaching, we have to understand the setting in which Jesus is teaching. He's teaching two groups. Those two groups represent two very different feelings about who Jesus is. The tax collectors, sinners defined by sin, they want to hear and learn from Jesus. The Pharisees who should know better, the teachers of the law who have the Scriptures memorized, they're there to judge Jesus. So do you see the difference? There's two groups of people. One is arguably the lower of society wanting to actually hear Jesus. The other is the Kardashian level society, and they're wanting to judge Jesus. I need you to hold on to that picture, because without that picture, you will not have the proper lens to understand the rest of the chapter. So you feel me? That's the group. One group low wants to hear, one group high wants to judge. Now we go to verse three. Then, there's your then, right? The then in verse three tells me, man, I really got to understand verses one and two, because here comes a parable. And what is a parable? A parable is a story that teaches a lesson. So then Jesus told them this parable. What is Luke telling us? Luke is telling us if you want to properly understand the parable, go back and look at the audience. I mean, what's public speaking 101? Know your audience. Know who you're speaking to. Now we have the benefit of the Holy Spirit-inspired scriptures through an incredibly educated and well-researched man like Luke. So when he says, then, I got to go back, I got to understand these two groups. And now we go to verse four. Here comes the first parable. Suppose one of you has 100 sheep and loses one of them. So Jesus is now choosing an occupation that's very common in his day. Shepherds are a very common occupation. We see them in the Old Testament. We see them in the New Testament. But we as Christians, we make a fundamental mistake about shepherds. And that is because of the kinds of people who are in the Bible who are shepherds. Like I think David. You know, David ends up defeating Goliath. He ends up being king. Everybody forgets that he ends up having an adultery and murders somebody in order to like steal that guy's pregnant wife. I mean, it's not a great story. David is not the character example. And yet, he's a man after God's own heart. David was a shepherd. The shepherds show up in the nativity scene. They're the first people to worship Jesus. Here's the other thing I need you to know about shepherds. They're also the lowest of low in Jewish society. You know why? Because Jews have all kinds of cleanliness rules. And what do shepherds do? Sleep in the fields with barn animals. Ugh. Like I don't know about you, but I have never gone into a cologne store and found ode to sheep. Right? Like we're talking about a first century society that prides itself on religious cleanliness. And y'all are out in the field sleeping with barn animals. Shepherds are also lowly characters in Jewish society. Now that you understand the audience, who's Jesus really pitching the parable to? The tax collectors and sinners. The ones who are actually wanting to listen and hear. The other people, they're there. And they're going to get theirs in a hot minute. But Jesus pitches the parable to the lower end of society. They know who's listening. Right? So suppose one of you has 100 sheep and loses one of them. Those of you who are super good at math, what percentage of sheep... Here's your algebra question for the day. What percentage of sheep is actually missing? One percent. One percent. Right? Now, in a common shepherding of the day, there wouldn't be just one shepherd. They would shepherd in groups. So Jesus is setting up something that's uncommon. There's only one shepherd in the story. They're not brothers. Think about it. If you go all the way back to the story of Genesis, when Joseph goes out to find his brothers looking after the flock before they beat him and kill him and leave him in the ditch, and that's a super fun story for another day, there's like 10 of them altogether. They're working in groups. When the angel shows up to the shepherds to announce the birth of Christ, there's multiple shepherds. So Jesus' story, all the way at verse 4, begins in a very odd way. There's only one shepherd who owns all the sheep. That's a detail that we might miss if we're just hurrying to get to the end of the story. If you miss the details, you might miss the point. So there's one shepherd who has 100 sheep and one percent of them go missing. Doesn't he leave the 99 in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it? Now, of course, we all want to go, yes, Jesus, the shepherd does that. We all want to have this warm feeling inside. No, actually, the shepherd doesn't do that. You know why? Because the open country there, that word in Greek, really means wilderness and danger. Who leaves 99 percent of their assets in danger to go after the 1 percent that willingly walked away? Nobody. Yet this shepherd does exactly that. That's why you got to see the details. See, the shepherd goes against the common wisdom of his day. And he leaves the 99 in the open country or the wilderness unguarded, IED, unsafe. You know, shepherds have real jobs. They don't just have to feed the sheep and help birth the babies. Shepherds kill wolves. That's what they do. That's why I don't mind having a church where a group of men want to keep our people safe. Shepherds take care of the wolves at the door so the sheep inside are safe. But this shepherd does something uniquely different. And he leaves the 99 in the wilderness, the open country, to go after the lost sheep. Now, here's the other thing you need to see about this peculiar and unique shepherd. Why did the sheep get lost? Because the sheep wandered off. So, we could say if we're looking for the onus of responsibility, who is responsible for the sheep's lostness? The sheep. The sheep lost itself. I'm going to translate the International Bill translation. One sheep done got lost. The shepherd didn't lose the sheep. The sheep wandered off. Right? One sheep done got lost. That's your quote from today. Your pastor's super good at English. One sheep done got lost. And yet, this unique shepherd does something that seems uncommon, and he goes after the lost sheep. The one who is disconnected. And then look at verse 5. And when he finds it. Verse 5. And when he finds it. You know what the beginning of verse 5 implies? The shepherd sought, looked after, tracked, and found the sheep. This peculiar shepherd who was willing to leave the 99 in the open country to find the one, kept looking until he found. And not only does he find the sheep, it'd be fine to look at the sheep and say, hey, Huey, let's go, come on, and bring them home. He doesn't do that. The shepherd doesn't merely rekindle the sheep and say, follow me home. The shepherd does something that's even more unique. When he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders. Now again, who's responsible for the sheep getting lost? The sheep is. But who's responsible for the sheep getting found? The shepherd is. Who's Jesus talking to? Don't forget. The lower part of his audience. Not the people who are there to judge him. The people who are there to hear him. What is he saying? He's saying, listen, for the tax collectors, the hated, the betrayers, the sinners, those who are defined by their faith, there is a shepherd who loves so much that he's not just going to write you off, but he will seek you, he will find you, and he will bring you home. So who's Jesus talking about? Yes. He's talking about himself veiled in a parable showing how much God loves sinners. Like, come on, let's get down on that. That's amazing. That's amazing. Especially when you realize his audience. He's talking to the lowly people who are hated and the high brow people who do all the judging. And he's saying, don't forget, God's love, and ultimately remember that Jesus is called the Good Shepherd, right? That's over in John. I'm going to use a lot of that. So now it's not just expert. It's Good Shepherd and shepherds. It's all kind of words. You should have to flow with me. He's showing the lesser of his audience the love of God. The shepherd finds the sheep. And notice he doesn't begrudgingly, no, no, no, go back one. He doesn't begrudgingly carry the sheep home, right? I mean, Jesus could have said, the shepherd found the idiot sheep, smacked it upside the head, picked it up, put it under his arm, and carried it home, giving it spankings all the way. He doesn't do that. Ultimately, the sheep still would have made it back. But it's a totally different story when the shepherd joyfully puts it on his shoulders. What's the other imagery here? The shepherd bears the weight of the sheep during restoration. It's not the sheep's job to find his way home. The loving shepherd finds the lost sheep and says, you know what I'm going to do? I'm not even going to make you walk home anymore. I'm going to pick you up. I am going to bear on my shoulders the weight of your lost nest and bring you all the way home. That's the shepherd. That's the love that Jesus is trying to teach to the lowly side of his audience. Now we go to verse 6. Something else interesting. The shepherd does not go back to the 99. Anybody notice that? Where did the shepherd leave the 99? In the wilderness. But where does the shepherd take the one who was lost? Home. The shepherd carries the sheep and doesn't bring them back to the other 99. He passes the 99, arguably leaving them in the wilderness, which is totally weird, and he carries them all the way home. Then he calls his friends, his neighbors, and he says what? He says, rejoice with me. Because why? I have found my lost sheep. The shepherd not only bears the weight of restoring the sheep, but he restores the sheep to a place of intimacy that the original 99 did not have. Home. Carries him all the way home. In Matthew, Jesus preached about the kingdom of God. That's his kingdom. Jesus is thrown, the people who Jesus would rule over in his kingdom. In Luke, we see an awful lot of the shepherd restoring those who are outside. Now, think critically for a second. Why is that? Well, the simple answer is Matthew was a Jew. Anybody know what Matthew's job was? Matthew was a tax collector. And Matthew wrote his gospel to Jews of his day, wanting them to know Jesus is the chosen Messiah. Luke is not a Jew. He's a Gentile. Luke started as the outsider. Luke probably did not hear the gospel until very closely or just after Jesus' crucifixion. Because it's not until the end of the gospel of John we see that Greeks actually stumb carting to seek Jesus. Luke is the one. Luke was the guy on the outside who got restored all the way home to the shepherd and didn't have to go back to the group of those 99 super-religionistic religious people. He went home with the shepherd. That's Luke. He's the Gentile author writing to us about the love of a savior that goes beyond any shepherd that you can imagine. He brings him home. He galls together his friends and his neighbors. Now, if Jesus is the shepherd, who are the friends and the neighbors? I would argue the friends are the other two members of the Trinity and the neighbors are the angelic hosts. Because if he went home, nobody else lives in heaven but God and the angels. Right? So, we're tracking. So, he calls together the rest of the Godhead and all of the heavenly host of angels. And he says, rejoice with me because I have found my lost sheep. And if we weren't sure about that interpretation, look at verse 7. He says, I, meaning Jesus, now speaking in his own voice, I tell you in the same way there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who do not need to repent. Now, catch this. This is super important. I said that sarcastically on purpose. Because after studying the passage, I think that's exactly Jesus' tone. So, let's talk about it. Where did he leave the 99? Not at home. They're still in the wilderness. They do not have the same relationship with the shepherd that the lost sheep does. Also, remember the audience. Jesus is speaking to the tax collectors, sinners defined by sin, and religious people who are going to judge him. So, the two groups in the parable must represent the two groups. Are the super, the phariseeical religious people who are judging Jesus in right relationship with him? No, they're not. So, the 99 here that says 99 righteous persons who do not need to repent. It's not that the 99 are actually righteous. But you can bet your booties they believe they are. Right? Those are the 99. And you don't have to raise your hand or definitely don't elbow your neighbor. But how many people have been judged by religious people? Don't raise your hand, right? But anybody feel me there? I have been judged by religious people my whole life. I've grown up in the church. I've known Jesus since I was a child. That's a blessing. I have also known religious judgment most of my life. Because I was the weird kid who couldn't sit still in church. I was that ADHD kid who yelled out loud. You know, that was me. Wow, yeah. My son gets it. I was my son, but when it wasn't appropriate to yell out at the pastor while he preached. Right? I get religious judgment. That's why this parable is so exciting to me. Because those 99 righteous people who totally thought they were good enough and didn't need to have a relationship with the Savior. Never get it home to have the intimacy with the shepherd the way he wanted to. Because remember the shepherd would have carried anyone home who needed it. Luke experienced that as a Gentile. He was grafted. Paul said, you know, we are grafted into the kingdom of God. When he goes home, he says, I tell you in the same way, more rejoicing in heaven. He's now talking about the character of God. There's more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents. That's this audience. Right? He's talking to tax collectors. He's talking to people whose lives are defined by sin. I'm going to not make the mistake of saying the words that everybody else say in front of children anymore. But just think of it. Think of like, right? All of you who are laughing know exactly what I'm talking about. Think of a job that's defined by sin. That job. Or the other job. Or the other job. I just thought of three. Anybody who's a mind reader, you have that gift of knowledge, go for it right now. Right? Those are the people Jesus is preaching to. And he's telling them, you know what? There is a God who loves you so much. No matter how much sin you've built up in your life, I will carry you home. And you coming home gives my Father in heaven more joy than all of those 99 stuck up righteous people who think they know better than us. Just let me carry you home. That's the parable of the lost sheep, but we're not done yet. Also, yeah, I do believe if anytime you read verse seven, throw a sarcastic bend on the last bit. Jesus is saying, if I could for a second, I'm going to talk to this side of the stage. These are the 99 righteous people. Jesus says, listen, I tell you the truth. In the same way, there is more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than 99 who don't think they need repentance. That's what Jesus is saying. The 99 over here don't even realize they're still lost. You know why? Because they're in a big giant group who tells themselves they're all OK. The 99 get to look at each other. And this is why quality by comparison is so bad. We all look at each other and go, oh, yeah, we're all here. We're together. We know the Bible. We're totally fine. And yet the 99 didn't even notice the one was missing. Come on, man. You got to be the kind of person. And I talked to the deacons about this last month. I am not the pastor who can look out of the church right now and know which face is missing. My ADHD does not work that way. That is not how this brain functions. I can I'm still looking out and going through them. And like half of you all, I still haven't learned your names yet. Right, Andrea. I learned her name last week. I got it right this time. I'm not that guy. I can't look out at 100 people and know which one face is missing. But you know what? I don't have to be because he is. And that's what Jesus is saying to this group over here. I'm going to see you. Now, Jesus says, or suppose. So notice he hasn't changed audiences and he hasn't changed themes. So we are now also have to look at the second pair of the lost coin in the same view as the lost sheep. Or suppose a woman has 10 silver coins and loses one. Now, here we get a little more interesting. Now, what percentage of product is lost? Ten percent. Right. Wow. Ten percent. Doesn't she light a lamp, sweep the house, and search carefully until she finds it? Now, here's something that Jesus's first-century audience would understand that we're going to totally miss. I'm going to have to give it to you. The woman in verse eight is poor. And it's not because she only has 10 silver coins. Although that amount of money is not a lot of money. Her poorness or her lack of financial resources is actually illustrated by the lighting of the lamp to search. Because in our minds today, when you have to look for something, why do you turn on a light? Well, because it's nighttime. Right. Because what do all of our houses have that let light come in during the day? Guess what poor people in the first century didn't have? Windows. They were earthen buildings, four sides and a door at the front. If she needed to see something inside her home, day or night, she needed to light another lamp. The only light that comes in comes in through the small earthen opening that is the front door. That's something that would have naturally been understood by Jesus's first century audience that you and I do not naturally understand. Because I've always grown up in buildings that have windows, whether it's the church, whether it's my home, whether it's RV. Whether it's the car. We've always grown up with the ability to have sunlight coming in. Jesus is for and we keep in mind, who's Jesus talking to? He's talking for now, the tax collectors. Those jokers were rich as mess, but they saw a greedy. But the people whose lives are defined by sin. Now Jesus is starting to talk about wealth and class. His first century audience would have understood. This is a poor woman. That's why she searches so frantically for the smaller amount of money. Right. The smaller amount of money. She lights a lamp, sweeps the house and searches carefully until she finds it. So what are the three things that the woman in this story does? First, she gives it light. Second, she searches everywhere. And third, she doesn't give up until she finds it. The Gospel of John refers to Jesus as the light of the world. Light was given. Jesus spent three years doing earthen ministry after his baptism, before his crucifixion. Ultimately casting the widest net for the Gospel call for all who want to find themselves. And now look at verse 9. And when she finds it, now verse 9 repeats almost the same theme and almost the same words as verse 6 with the lost shepherd. When she finds it, we see again friends and neighbors. I'm going to tell you, I think that's the rest of the members of the Trinity and the angelic host. Rejoice with me, I found my lost coin. So even somebody who doesn't have a lot like a poor person can totally rejoice when they find something that they thought was lost. So the idea that, oh, well, only rich people because who has a hundred sheep? A rich shepherd has a hundred sheep or shepherd who works for a rich person has a hundred sheep. Here with the lost coin, now we've got a division in class. It's not just when rich people lose stuff that they're rejoicing. So we got to take the money out of it. When this poor person who has very little finds out exactly what she needs and it's missed, the same joy. And I'll look at verse 10. In the same way, so the same way the lost coin and the lost sheep, they're related the same way in heaven. In the same way I tell you there is rejoicing in the presence of the angels. Well, who else is in the presence of the angels in heaven? God himself. The rejoicing in both parables is the heart of God after a sinner comes to repentance. So how do we understand these parables? Let me give you four quick things. How do I understand this parable or both of these parables together? Number one, the setting is Jesus being judged by religious people for spending time teaching sinners. That's verses one and two. If you don't get this, you're going to misapply all because remember a story that teaches a lesson. The story's got symbols. The story's got stuff. This is why I had to preach this sermon today because if not, next week's sermon that's commonly called the prodigal son would be literally an hour and a half long because I have to do all of this first. So this is like that's I'm saving you because you still got to make it to your Taco Bell appointment. I get it. I totally get it. The setting is Jesus being judged by religious people for spending time and teaching sinners. That's the setting of both of these parables. But the focus is God's joyous response for sinners repentance. You see that? Religious people judging Jesus. But the focus now we go to number three. I love it. That's like magic. It worked. The stories are about items that are lost, sought, found. And don't forget this. Items that are restored. So the woman who had the 10 coins, the item was restored all the way in. The lost sheep was restored all the way home. Don't forget the audience. The poor people in the Kardashians. Then number three, the lesson is self-righteous judgment does not bring joy to God. Repentance of one's sins does. And now Jesus drops a double a double forked lesson to his two different audiences with the two different parables. And he's trying to teach each of them. But only one of the groups is actually listening to hear. Which one? The tax collectors and sinners. They're listening because they want to learn about God. The people up here they're like I already know God and you clearly don't represent him. Look at the way the Pharisees treat Jesus throughout the entire Old Testament or the entire New Testament. They're judging him. They're like if this man was really a teacher he would know what kind of woman that is. That's my Pharisee voice by the way. It's super religious and judgy. If Jesus was really a teacher he would know what kind of person that is. I am better than you. That's the Pharisees. And yet Jesus teaching these two parables is really issuing two different lessons. So here's my question for you. Whether you're joining us on campus or you're watching this sermon online. Here's my question. Are you guilty of trying to please God through your own self-righteousness? Be honest. Be honest with yourself. Nobody's really looking inside your head right now. If your husband your wife totally is just get that it's okay. Are you guilty of self-righteousness? Because your self-righteousness will never bring God joy. That's the big lesson. Our self-righteousness never brings God joy. You know what brings God joy? Someone who realizes they're still a sinner and is willing to repent. That's where God's joy ultimately lies. So here's what I want you to do. I know that when everybody came in our ushers were at the back and they gave everybody one of those new handouts. It's got a super cool little code on it that you can scan with your phone. So those of you who know how to use a QR code please pull out your phone and scan the code that's on your handout. For everyone else if you'll grab your phone and you know you're joining us online I need you to do this. I want you to go to catalyst302.com slash connect. I have updated our online connect card. If you do not have your phone and you are sitting in this sanctuary right now there are connection cards in the seat in front of you. Please pull one of those. And here's the new thing. If you go to catalyst302.com slash connect and scroll down you're going to find two buttons. One that says I attended on campus. The other said I attended online. From here forward we are going to track attendance for both groups. We're going to be able to know how many people participated in worship with us here in the room. Either because you're going to use the physical connection card that's right there in the back of your seat or because you're going to use the digital connection card. When you pull up the connect card on your phone you can look at the header. It's very clear. One says on campus. The other says online. Just make sure you're using the right card. But here's why this is so important. Number one I need you to do your part. You're going to say but wait a minute pastor it's your sermon. It is totally my sermon but you're on the hook for your spiritual growth. So here's what I need you to do. I need everybody to either do this digitally or for those of you who are here in the room to fill out a physical connect card. Because this is how we're going to start tracking attendance. Oh I just used the nasty nasty a word at church. Attendance. You're right. But here's why it's so important. If we can do this simple thing every week and either fill out a physical connect card or use your phone and file a digital one. The deacons will be able to know when people have missed church for one or two or three weeks. You know why that's so important. So that we can go find the lost sheep before they're really lost. Before people get disconnected from our church. But here's how you do that. You have to be responsible to let me know you came to church. You can do it with a physical connection card. You can do it on your phone. But you've got to take that responsibility on yourself. So that I can help the deacons understand. Hey this is how many people came to church. Here's the number of people who weren't at church today. And then we look at two weeks in a row. Oh look such and such has missed two weeks in a row. They belong to XYZ deacon. Let's go reach out to them and make sure they're okay. Because let's be honest stuff happens during the week right. Like our spiritual life isn't determined by this one seventy five minute block that I get to talk to you on Sunday mornings. We have struggles on Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday and Saturday. Sunday before you come to church. Sunday after church. Some of y'all going to be praying because the Super Bowl is coming in like six hours. I need you to be responsible to let us know about your attendance. So that I can help lead the deacons in better being shepherds of our church. That's why this is so important. And I'll tell you if you do the digital card. This is going to make Donna really happy. If you do the digital card. I have it all set up that the database will have automatically tracked your attendance by the time your email comes in. It's all automated. So when you file out the cards it automatically tracks. So many people came to church. So many people engaged online. I can even go back and see how many people engaged in our services after the moment when it was live. I know you don't get to see this but I get digital connection cards on Mondays Tuesdays Wednesdays Thursdays Fridays. Sometimes Saturday night. Takes people a little while to think through their response to church. That's why this strategy is so important. And that's why I've been trying to lead you into it for the last few weeks. So from here on out every single Sunday whether you're worshipping here on campus or whether you're joining us online. I need you to tell us you came to church because it's going to make our deacons amazingly strong at shepherding our church. Now the final thing that we have to do is we close out our service is we're going to worship the Lord through giving. So ushers if you guys will go ahead and come up here we're going to do something a little different. I've asked the ushers to bring up the baskets. I'm also going to ask the worship team to retake the stage. So the worship team is going to lead us in a closing song. I'm going to ask that all of you stay seated. OK. All of you stay seated and the ushers are actually going to pass the baskets back and forth. We have. Oh wow. Back so fast. If you would prefer to give electronically like for instance I am not allowed to give carry cash because I'm. Super bad at remembering where I spend my money. You can go to catalyst 302.com slash give if you're watching us online and you have to go to that page you can go right to our super secure giving portal. You can automate your giving you can make it come so like I'm going to give this much at the top of every week. All that stuff happens and it's super easy but I want to give everybody the opportunity to worship through giving and then you can go ahead and roll that out. I'm going to pray ushers we're going to collect the worship team is going to lead and then we got one more thing we got a baptism today. I'm so excited so church let's pray and worship the Lord in our giving today. Heavenly Father I thank you for the opportunity to sow into your kingdom Lord we give not out of compulsion but out of a joy to give back to the Savior who has given more to us than we could ever ask think or earn Lord I ask that you bless every single person no matter the size of the gift given who chooses to trust you in their finances. Lord I ask that we give out of the blessings you've given to us we give as an act of sacrifice as an act of obedience but most of all as an act of worship Lord we love you we worship you today in Jesus name amen.