01: The Identity Factor
Tuesday, September 17, 2024 11:01 AM
Our Vision:
To represent Jesus as a loving community that meets needs, builds relationships, and matures
Christians.
Key Thought: As Christians, we should view politics with a
Kingdom perspective.
01: Our identity should be rooted in God
Genesis 12:1–4a
1 The LORD had said to Abram, “Go from your country, your
people and your father’s household to the land I will show you.
LORD - covenant name for God; this is the context
Abram - his "old" name, not his "new name"
Go from - God instructed him to leave behind:
a: his country (citizenship: national identity)
b: his people (tribe: cultural identity)
c: his father's household (family: familial identity)
National Identity: history, politics, laws
Cultural Identity: beliefs, values, traditions
REDEEMED Page 1

Cultural Identity: beliefs, values, traditions
Familial Identity: community, financial stability, future security
Go to - God directed Abram to a new location
Land I will show you - Abram had to follow on faith
2 “I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you; I will
make your name great, and you will be a blessing.
I will (x3) - the actions are God's, not Abram's
Bless you - "divine good" a divine act to bring about good
for the recipient.
Great nation - God will build a future Kingdom
Make your name great - God will build a future impact
Be a blessing - Abram will bless others because of God
3 I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you I will
curse; and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you.”
I will - these are also all actions of God
Those who bless you - God will bless those who bless His
people (blessed by association)
REDEEMED Page 2

I will curse - "divine evil" a divine act to bring about evil for
the recipient.
All people will be blessed - the "divine good" from God
through Abraham would bless the whole world
4a So Abram went, as the LORD had told him
So Abram went - this is faithful obedience
As the LORD - the covenant relationship again
American Christian
vs Christian American
(noun & adjective)
Abraham was called to give up his familial, cultural, and
national identities to follow Yahweh on faith.
We are called to do the same for Christ!
a: citizenship: national identity
Ephesians 2:19
Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and strangers, but
fellow citizens with God’s people and also members of his
household, built on the foundation of the apostles and
prophets, with Christ Jesus himself as the chief cornerstone.
b: tribe: cultural identity
REDEEMED Page 3

b: tribe: cultural identity
Romans 12:2
Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be transformed
by the renewing of your mind. Then you will be able to test and
approve what God’s will is—his good, pleasing and perfect will.
c: family: familial identity
1 Peter 5:8–9
8 Be alert and of sober mind. Your enemy the devil prowls
around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour.
9 Resist him, standing firm in the faith, because you know that
the family of believers throughout the world is undergoing the
same kind of sufferings.
From Kennedy to Christ!
“Ask not what the Kingdom can do for you, but what you can
do for the Kingdom!”
The Takeaway:
Christians should ground their identity in Christ and His
Kingdom before their national citizenship.
REDEEMED Page 4

02: The History Factor
Tuesday, September 24, 2024 3:21 PM
Our Vision:
To represent Jesus as a loving community that meets needs,
builds relationships, and matures Christians.
Key Thought:
God's people have been ruled, but never reigned.
Setting:
The book of Daniel was first written in two languages.
2:4 - 7:28 is written in Aramaic. This suggests the primary
audience for this section are those living in Babylon at the time
of the exile and fall to the Persian empire.
Daniel 6:1–23
1 It pleased Darius to appoint 120 satraps to rule throughout
the kingdom,
Darius - his identity is debated, his actions are not
120 satraps - government leaders over small areas
2 with three administrators over them, one of whom was
Daniel. The satraps were made accountable to them so that the
king might not suffer loss.
REDEEMED Page 5

Three administrators - Daniel is one of "high three"
Accountable to them - Daniel oversaw Persian governing
3 Now Daniel so distinguished himself among the
administrators and the satraps by his exceptional qualities that
the king planned to set him over the whole kingdom.
Distinguished himself - this Daniel's activity
Daniel was given opportunity
he put in the effort
Planned to set him over - this is government position!
4 At this, the administrators and the satraps tried to find
grounds for charges against Daniel in his conduct of
government affairs, but they were unable to do so. They could
find no corruption in him, because he was trustworthy and
neither corrupt nor negligent.
At this - the inciting incident is his impending promotion
Grounds for charges - this is "lawfare" or the weaponizing
of legal proceedings
Could find no corruption - Daniel's character was solid
Nor negligent - Daniel was also excellent in his work
REDEEMED Page 6

5 Finally these men said, “We will never find any basis for
charges against this man Daniel unless it has something to do
with the law of his God.”
Unless it has - the conspirators targeted his faith
Law of his God - Daniel was known for his obedience
6 So these administrators and satraps went as a group to the
king and said: “May King Darius live forever!
King Darius live forever - this is personal gain disguised as
patriotism!
7 The royal administrators, prefects, satraps, advisers and
governors have all agreed that the king should issue an edict
and enforce the decree that anyone who prays to any god or
human being during the next thirty days, except to you, Your
Majesty, shall be thrown into the lions’ den.
All agreed - this is a joint effort to ensure Daniel's death
Prays to any god - Daniel's god is the target, but to disguise
this, they blanket cover "any god"
Priority of Government over God
is the setting of this story!
REDEEMED Page 7

8 Now, Your Majesty, issue the decree and put it in writing so
that it cannot be altered—in accordance with the law of the
Medes and Persians, which cannot be repealed.”
Cannot be repealed - they used their law to force Daniel to
choose between God and the Persian Government
This is all in response to Daniel's impending promotion
because of his character and excellence!
9 So King Darius put the decree in writing.
In writing - this made the decree a law
10 Now when Daniel learned that the decree had been
published, he went home to his upstairs room where the
windows opened toward Jerusalem. Three times a day he got
down on his knees and prayed, giving thanks to his God, just as
he had done before.
When Daniel learned - the moment he knows the law
Toward Jerusalem - Jews in captivity pray towards God's
holy city
Had done before - this is how they knew they could trap
him, Daniel's reputation for godliness was reliable
REDEEMED Page 8

11 Then these men went as a group and found Daniel praying
and asking God for help.
Went as a group - they are working together
Found Daniel praying - This is NOT rebellion against the
Persian empire, it is obedience to the King of Heaven.
12 So they went to the king and spoke to him about his royal
decree: “Did you not publish a decree that during the next thirty
days anyone who prays to any god or human being except to
you, Your Majesty, would be thrown into the lions’ den?” The
king answered, “The decree stands—in accordance with the law
of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be repealed.”
The decree stands - the conspiracy now traps the king
himself in the web of deceptive "lawfare"
13 Then they said to the king, “Daniel, who is one of the exiles
from Judah, pays no attention to you, Your Majesty, or to the
decree you put in writing. He still prays three times a day.”
Pays no attention to you - the mischaracterization of
Daniel's faith is part of the conspiracy
14 When the king heard this, he was greatly distressed; he was
determined to rescue Daniel and made every effort until
REDEEMED Page 9

determined to rescue Daniel and made every effort until
sundown to save him.
To rescue Daniel - the king cared about Daniel
Made every effort - the king is fighting FOR Daniel
15 Then the men went as a group to King Darius and said to
him, “Remember, Your Majesty, that according to the law of the
Medes and Persians no decree or edict that the king issues can
be changed.”
Remember, Your Majesty - the conspirators use the law to
trap the king in their plan, even he is being used by them,
their fake nationalism is now gone and their agenda is all
that remains
16 So the king gave the order, and they brought Daniel and
threw him into the lions’ den. The king said to Daniel, “May
your God, whom you serve continually, rescue you!”
May your God - the king appeals to God
Whom you serve - the king recognizes Daniel's faith
17 A stone was brought and placed over the mouth of the den,
and the king sealed it with his own signet ring and with the
rings of his nobles, so that Daniel’s situation might not be
changed.
REDEEMED Page 10

King sealed it - this is to ensure the law is followed, the king
is free from the trap
18 Then the king returned to his palace and spent the night
without eating and without any entertainment being brought to
him. And he could not sleep.
Without eating / entertainment - this is the king's distress
over Daniel's treatment
19 At the first light of dawn, the king got up and hurried to the
lions’ den.
First light of dawn - the earliest possible time
20 When he came near the den, he called to Daniel in an
anguished voice, “Daniel, servant of the living God, has your
God, whom you serve continually, been able to rescue you from
the lions?”
Anguished voice - the king is hopeful enough to speak, but
doubting enough to be anguished; he wants to believe, but
doesn't quite trust
Servant of the living God - the king knew OF Yahweh, but
this doesn't mean he believed IN Him. Henotheism.
21 Daniel answered, “May the king live forever!
REDEEMED Page 11

21 Daniel answered, “May the king live forever!
May the king live forever! - the same line the conspirators
used. Daniel also has an ulterior motive. He is serving God
in the Persian government.
22 My God sent his angel, and he shut the mouths of the lions.
They have not hurt me, because I was found innocent in his
sight. Nor have I ever done any wrong before you, Your
Majesty.”
My God sent his angel - This is CHRIST with Daniel
23 The king was overjoyed and gave orders to lift Daniel out of
the den. And when Daniel was lifted from the den, no wound
was found on him, because he had trusted in his God.
Trusted in his God - Darius may not be a God worshiper,
but he is a God recognizer!
The Takeaway:
Like Daniel, Christians should work for the good of their country
until obedience to government requires rebellion against God.
In this, God's people may be ruled,
but they are never reigned.
REDEEMED Page 12

03: The Kingdom Factor
Tuesday, October 1, 2024 10:01 AM
Our Vision:
To represent Jesus as a loving community that meets needs,
builds relationships, and matures Christians.
Key Thought:
The Kingdom of God is both now and not yet.
Setting:
This chapter has a collection of Jesus teaching on the Kingdom.
Two parables are told and explained: the parables of the soils
and the seeds.
Matthew 13:24–30, 36–43
24 Jesus told them another parable: “The kingdom of heaven is
like a man who sowed good seed in his field.
Another parable - Jesus choice method of teaching
Kingdom of heaven - Jesus literal kingdom, currently in
heaven, but coming back to earth
Is like a man - the story is a simile, not historical
In his field - all of creation is the "field"
25 But while everyone was sleeping, his enemy came and sowed
weeds among the wheat, and went away.
REDEEMED Page 13

weeds among the wheat, and went away.
But while - in the midst of the kingdom operating
Everyone was sleeping - not aware of the addition
His enemy - the enemy of the Kingdom of Heaven
Sowed weeds - plants that live in the same space, but are
not part of the owner's crop
26 When the wheat sprouted and formed heads, then the
weeds also appeared.
When the wheat sprouted - as the Kingdom grew, so did
the weeds
27 “The owner’s servants came to him and said, ‘Sir, didn’t you
sow good seed in your field? Where then did the weeds come
from?’
Where did the weeds - the weeds are not part of the plan,
but they are present in the field
28 “ ‘An enemy did this,’ he replied. “The servants asked him,
‘Do you want us to go and pull them up?’
29“ ‘No,’ he answered, ‘because while you are pulling the
weeds, you may uproot the wheat with them.
REDEEMED Page 14

You may uproot - the weeds remain for the benefit of the
crop
30 Let both grow together until the harvest. At that time I will
tell the harvesters: First collect the weeds and tie them in
bundles to be burned; then gather the wheat and bring it into
my barn.’ ”
Until harvest - a set time when the fruit of the crop is to be
collected
Burn / barn - the weeds will never be collected, the wheat
will never be burned.
Matthew 13:36–43
36 Then he left the crowd and went into the house. His disciples
came to him and said, “Explain to us the parable of the weeds in
the field.”
Into the house - the explanation is private
His disciples - the audience for the explanation
37 He answered, “The one who sowed the good seed is the Son
of Man.
The one who - the farmer is Jesus
Good seed - the seeds of wheat
REDEEMED Page 15

Good seed - the seeds of wheat
38 The field is the world, and the good seed stands for the
people of the kingdom. The weeds are the people of the evil
one,
The good seed represents
the people of the Kingdom
39 and the enemy who sows them is the devil. The harvest is the
end of the age, and the harvesters are angels.
Harvest - the end of the age; we are already in the age in
which the wheat has been sown and is growing
40 “As the weeds are pulled up and burned in the fire, so it will
be at the end of the age.
Weeds are pulled - there is no salvation for the weeds
41 The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will weed
out of his kingdom everything that causes sin and all who do
evil.
Weed out of His kingdom - the weeds are mixed in with the
wheat until the end of the age
42 They will throw them into the blazing furnace, where there
REDEEMED Page 16

42 They will throw them into the blazing furnace, where there
will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Weeping and gnashing - separation from God for eternity
43 Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of
their Father. Whoever has ears, let them hear.
Then the righteous will shine - the righteous will only shine
AFTER the weeds have been separated out and they are all
that remain.
1: Both Kingdoms planted seeds which grew.
2: Bearing fruit is the only way to tell the difference.
3: Until the harvest the wheat and weeds remain together.
4: Only after the harvest is the wheat freed from the presence
of the weeds
The Takeaway:
Jesus teaching reminds us that in this life, His people will bear
fruit while living "in the weeds". We live in the Kingdom now
and also not yet.
REDEEMED Page 17

04: The Authority Factor
Tuesday, October 8, 2024 12:06 PM
Our Vision:
To represent Jesus as a loving community that meets needs,
builds relationships, and matures Christians.
Key Thought:
The Body of Christ doesn't have a second head.
1 Corinthians 3:1–9
1 Brothers and sisters, I could not address you as people who
live by the Spirit but as people who are still worldly—mere
infants in Christ.
Brothers and sister - adelphoi > adelphos lit. (a + delphus)
from the same womb; the family or tribe of God's people
Live by the Spirit vs. Still Worldly - there is a very real
lifestyle issue at the heart of Christian maturity
Infants in Christ - those who are still new in the faith; the
same word is used for unbelievers, but the "in Christ" shows
they are saved, but are acting like unbelievers
Setting:
Paul is addressing a group that is supposed to be ONE family
under Christ but they are immature in their lifestyle
REDEEMED Page 18

2 I gave you milk, not solid food, for you were not yet ready for
it. Indeed, you are still not ready.
Milk vs. solid food - the difference between the basic or
introductory teachings of the faith vs the weightier things of
the faith.
The key difference in the type of teaching you can handle is
your maturity; not the teachers you listen to.
Not ready, still not ready - Paul evaluates the Corinthian
Christians and teaches them what they are able to handle
based on their maturity
3 You are still worldly. For since there is jealousy and quarreling
among you, are you not worldly? Are you not acting like mere
humans?
Still worldly - Paul's measurement of Corinthian maturity is
the amount of "world" in their lifestyles
Jealousy and Quarrelling - both are divisions between the
people. This is a clear sign, in Paul's view, of the immaturity
of the group as a whole!
Humans - Paul is making a clear distinction between
identities found in humans versus in Jesus who is God
REDEEMED Page 19

4 For when one says, “I follow Paul,” and another, “I follow
Apollos,” are you not mere human beings?
For one says - another example of their immaturity
Follow - /i-mee/ the verb here suggests "to exist or identity"
this word suggests the root of a person's identity. Who they
ARE
Paul/Apollos - lit. "I am a Paul-ian; I am an Apollos-ian". The
body of Christ has ONE head. We are all CHRIST-IAN.
5 What, after all, is Apollos? And what is Paul? Only servants,
through whom you came to believe—as the Lord has assigned
to each his task.
After all - so, then, or therefore - Paul is making a logical
inference from the "who is?" questions
Apollos / Paul - there are only fellow servants, why are the
Corinthians rooting their identity in mere men?
Through whom you - though Apollos and Paul serve the
Lord, they are not to be lifted up and made sources of
identity.
Assigned each task - it is the KING who assigns the work to
the servants.
The Body of Christ only has ONE head!
REDEEMED Page 20

6 I planted the seed, Apollos watered it, but God has been
making it grow.
Planted / watered - Paul doesn't deny the work that he and
Apollos did for the Kingdom, but their work does not make
them worthy of being a source of identity.
God… making it grow - God is the one responsible for the
growth through the work of Paul and Apollos.
7 So neither the one who plants nor the one who waters is
anything, but only God, who makes things grow.
Neither the one, nor the other - Paul & Apollos are equal in
that neither are as important as Christ
Only God - God alone is the One who makes His Kingdom
grow
8 The one who plants and the one who waters have one
purpose, and they will each be rewarded according to their own
labor.
Plants vs. waters - there is a very real difference between
Paul's and Apollos's functions in the Kingdom. They did
perform the same task, but it was for the same purpose
One purpose - no matter what your task is, growing the
Kingdom is always the purpose
REDEEMED Page 21

9 For we are co-workers in God’s service; you are God’s field,
God’s building.
For we are - /i-mee/ the same word; this is Paul's correction
to them;
They should be rooting their identity in being servants not in
the servants themselves!
The Takeaway:
The Body of Christ doesn't have a second head. Christians
should root their identity in Jesus before anything else.
REDEEMED Page 22

05: The Unity Factor
Tuesday, October 15, 2024 1:54 PM
Our Vision:
To represent Jesus as a loving community that meets needs,
builds relationships, and matures Christians.
Key Thought:
The unity of the Church is founded on the gospel.
Romans 1:1–7
Setting:
Who started the church at Rome? [Pentecost]
Edict of Claudius in 49 AD
Repealed by Nero in 54 AD
Romans likely written in 57 AD
Paul executed by Nero in Rome 64 AD
1 Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle and set
apart for the gospel of God—
Paul - this is common for ancient letters, authors identify
themselves first rather than last in our culture
A servant - the word here is the same as "slave"; literally
means one who derives their identity from being a worker
for another
Called to be an apostle - Paul's identity is SERVANT, but his
REDEEMED Page 23

Called to be an apostle - Paul's identity is SERVANT, but his
calling is APOSTLE.
Set apart for the gospel of God - the act of being "set
apart" requires an authority that does this!
2 the gospel he promised beforehand through his prophets in
the Holy Scriptures
The gospel - /euangelion/ lit. positive information about
recent and important events that are regarded as worthy of
celebration… the "good news"
Promised beforehand - God promised redemption from the
Old Testament (Gen 3:15)
Through his prophets - the messengers of God in the Old
Testament periods
The Holy Scriptures - God's inspired words in the OT
3 regarding his Son, who as to his earthly life was a descendant
of David,
Regarding his Son - the OT Scriptures predict the coming of
the Messiah Savior King
Descendant of David - a messianic requirement
4 and who through the Spirit of holiness was appointed the Son
REDEEMED Page 24

4 and who through the Spirit of holiness was appointed the Son
of God in power by his resurrection from the dead: Jesus Christ
our Lord.
Appointed - lit. designated; Jesus didn't become the Son of
God after His resurrection, He already was.
Power by his resurrection - the resurrection is the display
of power that illustrates the powerful "Lord" designation
Jesus Christ our Lord - Jesus, the risen Messiah King, is
God!
5 Through him we received grace and apostleship to call all the
Gentiles to the obedience that comes from faith for his name’s
sake.
Through him - through Jesus the risen Messiah King
Received grace - favor given from God to humans
Call all the Gentiles - this is a Jewish teacher calling "all the
gentiles" to obedience
Faith for his name's sake - the "faith" Paul is speaking about
is the unity of Jew and Gentile
6 And you also are among those Gentiles who are called to
belong to Jesus Christ.
You are also among those - Paul includes his Gentile
REDEEMED Page 25

You are also among those - Paul includes his Gentile
readers in those who are called like he is
Called to belong - Here we see the gospel message being
the foundation of the unity of the Church
7 To all in Rome who are loved by God and called to be his holy
people: Grace and peace to you from God our Father and from
the Lord Jesus Christ.
To all in Rome - Paul here is addressing Jews & Gentiles as
ONE PEOPLE of God in the name of God
Loved by God & called to be his people - THIS is what
unifies the broken church! We are all loved by God and
called to be his people.
The early Christians were used edicts and rules being decreed
from Kings. "Did you hear the news?"
16 For I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power
of God that brings salvation to everyone who believes: first to
the Jew, then to the Gentile.
17 For in the gospel the righteousness of God is revealed—a
righteousness that is by faith from first to last, just as it is
written: “The righteous will live by faith.”
REDEEMED Page 26

The Takeaway:
We must ground our unity with other Christians in the gospel
and not cultural or political views.
REDEEMED Page 27

06: The Future Factor
Monday, October 21, 2024 11:09 AM
Our Vision:
To represent Jesus as a loving community that meets needs,
builds relationships, and matures Christians.
Key Thought:
The future hope of the church is Jesus, not legislation.
Setting:
Ephesians is a prison epistle, or letter from prison, along with
Philippians, Colossians, and Philemon. Likely his house arrest in
Rome mentioned in Acts 28:30.
Ephesians 1:13–23
13 And you also were included in Christ when you heard the
message of truth, the gospel of your salvation. When you
believed, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised
Holy Spirit,
Included in Christ - including Gentiles in the future
inheritance
Message of truth / gospel - the good news of Jesus was
taught as true, not an option identity or belief
Your salvation - the gospel is the key to salvation
When you believed - a specific moment of belief when the
REDEEMED Page 28

When you believed - a specific moment of belief when the
believer is transferred from the kingdom of sin to the
kingdom of Christ
Marked with a seal - the Holy Spirit is the guarantee that
we belong to Christ and are awaiting His return.
14 who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the
redemption of those who are God’s possession—to the praise of
his glory.
A deposit - the Holy Spirit is the I OWE U for eternity
Guaranteeing our inheritance - the hope of the church is
the FUTURE inheritance
Until the redemption - the inheritance is in the next life,
after the 'redemption' of revelation
15 For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the
Lord Jesus and your love for all God’s people,
For this reason - because they are included in Christ and the
inheritance…
Ever since I heard - another reference to time, his actions
began at the time of hearing and continued
16 I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you
in my prayers.
REDEEMED Page 29

in my prayers.
Giving thanks for you - remember he is under house arrest
in Rome while writing that he is "giving thanks" for the
Christians in Ephesus and the surrounding area
Remembering you in my prayers - while in prison, Paul
prays for other believers and churches!
17 I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the
glorious Father, may give you the Spirit of wisdom and
revelation, so that you may know him better.
Give you the Spirit - Paul wanted them to have the Spirit
Know him better - the outcome of the Spirit is to know God
better, not show off gifts of the Spirit
18 I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in
order that you may know the hope to which he has called you,
the riches of his glorious inheritance in his holy people,
Eyes of your heart - anthropomorphism, obviously hearts
don't have eyes, but "seeing" what and why one feels a
certain way is powerful
May be enlightened - to gain understanding
In order that - the purpose for the understanding gained
Know the hope - this is the REASON Paul prayed for the
REDEEMED Page 30

Know the hope - this is the REASON Paul prayed for the
Ephesians to gain understanding in their hearts… so they
would KNOW the HOPE that awaited them in the
inheritance!
Glorious inheritance - the inheritance that awaits us is
described as "of glory" emanating from God
19 and his incomparably great power for us who believe. That
power is the same as the mighty strength
Great power for us - God's power, via the Spirit, works
through those who believe
20 he exerted when he raised Christ from the dead and seated
him at his right hand in the heavenly realms,
Raised Christ from the dead - the same power that raised
Jesus lives in us!
Seated him at his right hand - this same power will also
guarantee us in the presence of God
21 far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and
every name that is invoked, not only in the present age but also
in the one to come.
Far above all rule and authority - this is why we can trust in
Jesus, because His authority is ABOVE other
REDEEMED Page 31

22 And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him
to be head over everything for the church,
All things under his feet - God the Father placed all creation
under the feet (or under the authority) of the Savior King
Jesus.
23 which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in
every way.
The fullness of Him - the church is to be the living breathing
"fullness" of Christ until His return
The Takeaway:
As Christians, our hope for the future should be rooted in our
“glorious inheritance” not our current circumstances.
The Takeaway:
REDEEMED Page 32

07: Christians & Government
Wednesday, October 30, 2024 4:40 PM
The Identity Factor: As Christians, we should view politics with
a Kingdom perspective.
The History Factor: God's people have been ruled, but never
reigned.
The Kingdom Factor: The Kingdom of God is both now and not
yet.
The Authority Factor: The Body of Christ doesn't have a second
head.
The Unity Factor: The unity of the Church is founded on the
gospel.
The Future Factor: The future hope of the church is Jesus, not
legislation.
Key Thought:
Christians should act like a people in exile until the return of the
King.
Jeremiah 29:1–14
Setting: Jeremiah writes to Jews who have been carried off into
Babylon from Judah soon after the destruction of Jerusalem in
587 BC and deportation in 597 BC.
REDEEMED Page 33

1 This is the text of the letter that the prophet Jeremiah sent
from Jerusalem to the surviving elders among the exiles and to
the priests, the prophets and all the other people
Nebuchadnezzar had carried into exile from Jerusalem to
Babylon.
Jeremiah - a prophet of God to His people
Surviving elders among the exiles - those leaders who
survived the journey and arrival in Babylon
Priests, prophets, all other people - this letter is to
everyone, all Jews in exile
2 (This was after King Jehoiachin and the queen mother, the
court officials and the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem, the
skilled workers and the artisans had gone into exile from
Jerusalem.)
This is a portrait of the kinds of people carried away into
exile in Babylon
3 He entrusted the letter to Elasah son of Shaphan and to
Gemariah son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to
King Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon. It said:
King of Judah sent - this could be to pledge loyalty or to pay
serif fees, either way, this ensured the letter would reach
the royal palace of Babylon
REDEEMED Page 34

4 This is what the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, says to all
those I carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon:
The LORD Almighty - The covenant God of Isreal that is who
is speaking to His covenant people. This is the first part of
the Lord's direction.
I carried into exile - God is the one who "carried" them into
exile and would be the one to "carry" them home
5 “Build houses and settle down; plant gardens and eat what
they produce.
Build, settle, plant - these all speak to a long term stay, not
praying for the downfall of Babylon so they could return
home. God is telling them to "settle in".
Eat what they produce - this speaks to the long term stay
and the need to build lives that would produce for
themselves.
6 Marry and have sons and daughters; find wives for your sons
and give your daughters in marriage, so that they too may have
sons and daughters. Increase in number there; do not decrease.
Sons, daughters, marriage - the original command to grow
through family is their focus
Increase - they were to grow as a people, even when not in
REDEEMED Page 35

Increase - they were to grow as a people, even when not in
the land
God's covenant relationship is WITH His people, not where they
live. The land is a blessing OF the covenant, not a TERM of it.
7 Also, seek the peace and prosperity of the city to which I have
carried you into exile. Pray to the LORD for it, because if it
prospers, you too will prosper.”
Seek the peace and prosperity of the city - while in exile,
they were to work for the "good of the city"
Pray to the LORD for it - they were instructed by pray for
Babylon, because they would prosper if Babylon did
8 Yes, this is what the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, says:
“Do not let the prophets and diviners among you deceive you.
Do not listen to the dreams you encourage them to have.
What the LORD… says - this is the second part of God's
instructions for His people while living in a foreign land
Do not let… deceive you - the prophets of Babylon did NOT
represent God's plan for His people.
9 They are prophesying lies to you in my name. I have not sent
them,” declares the LORD.
REDEEMED Page 36

I have not sent them - in exile, God's people had to discern
the difference between false and faithful prophets
10 This is what the LORD says: “When seventy years are
completed for Babylon, I will come to you and fulfill my good
promise to bring you back to this place.
When seventy years are completed - God describes the
timeframe when He will return for His people
Fulfill my good promise - God's promise for Isreal was to be
rescued and restored to Him and His land
11 For I know the plans I have for you,” declares the LORD,
“plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you
hope and a future.
For I - God, Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel
Know the plans - God knows all (omniscience)
I have - God's plan for His people, not His people's plan they
want God to accomplish!
For you - Israel is the OBJECT of the plan, not the
ARCHITECT
12 Then you will call on me and come and pray to me, and I will
REDEEMED Page 37

12 Then you will call on me and come and pray to me, and I will
listen to you.
You will call on me - exile would drive the heart of God's
people back to Him
I will listen to you - God never leaves the covenant
relationship He has with His people
13 You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your
heart.
You will seek me - both the "seeking" and the "finding"
happen within covenant relationship. This does not describe
an non-believer seeking Jesus, it is about Israel already in
covenant relationship with God but living outside that
relationship coming back to Yahweh
14 I will be found by you,” declares the LORD, “and will bring
you back from captivity. I will gather you from all the nations
and places where I have banished you,” declares the LORD,
“and will bring you back to the place from which I carried you
into exile.”
I will be found by you - God promises the restoration of
close relationship
Will bring you back - God promises the return to the
promised land by Israel after captivity
I carried you into exile - God reminds them HE is the one
REDEEMED Page 38

I carried you into exile - God reminds them HE is the one
who "carried" them into exile.
New Testament Symmetry:
1 Peter 2:13-17
13 Submit yourselves for the Lord’s sake to every human
authority: whether to the emperor, as the supreme authority,
14 or to governors, who are sent by him to punish those who do
wrong and to commend those who do right.
15 For it is God’s will that by doing good you should silence the
ignorant talk of foolish people.
16 Live as free people, but do not use your freedom as a cover-
up for evil; live as God’s slaves.
17 Show proper respect to everyone, love the family of
believers, fear God, honor the emperor.
God's expectation of His people while under Babylonian rule:
1. Build a life that will pass on the faith to children and
grandchildren.
2. Pray for and work for the "good of the city".
3. Identify and ignore false teachers.
REDEEMED Page 39

3. Identify and ignore false teachers.
4. Remember Yahweh will return for and restore His people.
How can this apply to Christians today,
regardless of where they live:
1. Build a life that will pass on the Christian faith to children
and grandchildren.
2. Pray for and work for the "good of the city" wherever you
live.
3. Identify and ignore false teachers. They are still dangerous.
4. Remember Jesus will return for and restore His people.
The Takeaway:
While waiting for the King's return, Christians should build
families, share the faith, pray/work for the "good of the city",
and ignore false teachings.
REDEEMED Page 40