Now, we are going to start a brand new teaching series this morning. Something that I have wanted to do for several years and finally was able to get it on to the calendar. And since it was Father's Day, you didn't get the video prep. So here it is. We are going to embark on a summer through the Psalms. So if you want to grab your Bibles and if you're using a physical Bible, just basically turn to the middle. And if you're on a digital Bible, tap on Psalms. We are going to start in Psalm 1 where the book opens. And over the next several weeks, we will dive into one particular Psalm and examine it and examine what it has to teach us and how it is relevant to our life today. While you're turning to Psalms, let me give you the key thought here. The book of Psalms is ancient Hebrew lyrical poetry that expresses timeless relevance to anyone striving to live a life that honors God. That's your key thought. The book of Psalms is ancient Hebrew lyrical poetry that expresses timeless relevance to anyone striving to live a life that honors God. A couple key things to know about the book of Psalms. Number 1, the Psalms are written by different authors over a period of more than a thousand years. There is one Psalm in the book of Psalms written by Moses himself and it follows all the way through to David. Second, Psalms don't rhyme. I don't want to disappoint everybody when we talk about poetry and then Jen comes up to me later and goes, Pastor, none of that rhymed. No, none of it rhymes but they do. So number 1, we're reading poetry in a different language, right? So we're not reading the Psalms in the language they were originally written. But number 2, different languages use different literary structures in order to make their poetry and we're going to talk a little bit about the literary devices used in Psalms as we get into it. Three, Psalms can be described in 4 main categories. There are praises, there are songs, there are laments and there's a word that you probably never heard before called an imprecate or an imprecatory Psalm. Those are my favorite. Those are grind their bones into dust level Psalms where they are literally praying that God would bring judgment on the people who are oppressing them. So that's an imprecatory Psalm. And then number 4, the book of Psalms as we know it was likely compiled after the exile period, okay? So now we're going to do our big Bible stories so you can see where all this fits in, right? So in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. He made a garden at Eden in which He placed Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve's first 2 children are Cain and... Third child's name is Seth. See, got to keep you on your toes. Third child's name is Seth. After they move out of the garden at Eden, sin runs rampant over the world until God is sorry that He made humanity and He is going to judge sin and bring new restoration. So He chooses a guy who has 3 sons, tells them to build a boat. The boat is called the... See, you thought I was going to ask you who the name was, right? The boat's called the Ark. The guy who built it's name is? Noah. Noah and his wife, sons and their wives, they board the boat. It rains for 40 days, 40 nights. Water covers the earth for a little more than a year. When the water resides, humanity restarts in Genesis chapter 9. Then we get to Genesis 12. God finds a guy living in Ur of the Chaldeans and tells him, move to the land that I will show you. I'm going to be your God. You're going to be my people. I'm going to bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you. Your descendants are going to own this land and they'll be as multiple as the stars in the sky and the sands on the seashore. That man's original name was? Abram. God changed his name to? Abraham. Then God tells him, you're going to have a son of promise. Abram's son of promise who inherits the covenant, relates you with God is? Isaac. Not... Who was the other one? Ishmael, right? Isaac, not Ishmael. Then Isaac grows up and a similar thing happens. God says, I'm going to give you a son of promise. Isaac's son of promise's name is? Jacob. And his brother's name is? Esau, right? Then Jacob has 12 sons. They become what we know as the 12 tribes of Israel. They sell off their younger brother into slavery. That younger brother becomes a slave, then gets accused of rape, then goes to jail. Then becomes a prince. And if anybody, your eyebrows just went up, that's the end of the book of Genesis. This is why we read the Bible. So Joseph saves his family from a famine. The children of Israel move into Egypt and are protected in what I would call the Egyptian incubator. And in that land where they don't have to protect themselves militarily, God just blesses them. And they begin to grow, they begin to multiply until such time as Egypt gets nervous because they're getting too big and too wealthy. And so then along comes a Pharaoh who didn't know Joseph and he enslaves the Egyptian people. This is the beginning of the second book of the Bible, the book of Exodus. They cry out for a deliverer. And God sends them a guy who was born in Egypt but raised in Midian. He'd been there for 40 years as a shepherd. His name is? Moses. Moses then comes in with his brother? Aaron. Aaron and sister? Miriam. Miriam. And they ultimately through God's power deliver the children of Israel out. They walk across the Red Sea. They go and sit at the foot of Mount Sinai where God gives them the law. And then disobedience happens again. They wander in the wilderness for 40 years until God raises up the next generation of leader. His name is? Joshua. Joshua leads the children of Israel into the land of Canaan. They're still disobedient. Cue the judges period where everyone does what is right in their own eyes. And then the book of judges is not a book of people that you want to emulate. They're failed leader after failed leader after failed leader. And then ultimately the children of Israel succumb to worldly pressure and they want something like all the other kids have. What does Israel want? A human king. Who's supposed to be Israel's king? God. And who is the first king of the United Mark of Israel? Saul. Followed by David. Followed by Solomon. And what happens after Solomon? Civil war. After Solomon, there's no more united kingdom. There's a civil war. They fracture into the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. And then they stay that way as 2 separate nations for the rest of the Old Testament. Then they're still disobedient. King after king. Yes, they got a couple good ones who try to draw people back to God. But then negative king after negative king after negative king. And God finally says, listen, I'm going to have to put you in a time out. Sherita, y'all can't figure out how to play the game. So, what pagan nation comes in and defeats the northern kingdom of Israel? Assyria. Then they carry the northern kingdom of Israel off into captivity. That was about 722 B.C. And then the kingdom of Assyria falls to another pagan nation. That is? Babylon. Then Babylon comes in and wrecks Judah's day and carries Judah away. That's about 586 B.C. And then Babylon falls to Persia. And then finally the king of Persia lets everybody go home. And that is what we call the exile period. And then the post-exilic period is when everyone's allowed to come home. That's your Ezra. That's your Nehemiah. That's your Hezekiah. That's when they're coming back to the land that God had promised them that they inherited way back in Joshua. But then their disobedience caused them to have to leave. The reason I need you to see that whole picture is... And somebody asked me, why do I do this every single Sunday? I'll tell you. My mom asked me one time when I finished my bachelor's degree in the Bible, what was the single most important thing I learned after 4 years of studying in college? That big Bible story? That's it. That is the single most important thing I ever learned in 4 years of Bible college. Is the fact that the Bible is one story, not 66 individual stories. And when we can talk about it as a big story, we can better understand what God was doing in all those different seasons. And so that's why we review this every single week. Is I want you to see... When you go to Netflix and you jump into chapter 17 of Criminal Minds and you've missed the first 16 chapters of some really crazy mess and you're like, what? Right. That's like jumping into the book of Psalms and not understanding anything about promise, covenant, exodus, redemption, disobedience or exile. But now you see all those big story things. And now they come back. So, here we are. We're going to read Psalm 1. I want to teach you one literary device today that you're going to need to know. And that is called parallelism. This is huge in Hebrew poetry and Hebrew writing. It's called parallelism. And what they do is they repeat an idea in multiple ways for emphasis. So if I were to tell my wife how amazingly good looking she is. And then in the next sentence go, girl, right? What did I just do? I said the same thing 2 different ways. How beautiful is my wife? My wife is very beautiful. My wife, the beautiful one. Three different ways I can say the same thing. That's called parallelism. Need you to understand parallelism because it has a play in what we're going to read this morning. So, first let's read Psalm 1. It's only 6 verses. I want to read it to you. And then we're going to go back and we're going to look at how parallelism helps us understand what's happening. So here we go. Psalm 1. Just is the one who does not walk in step with the wicked, or stand in the way that sinners take, or sit in the company of mockers, but whose delight is in the law of the Lord, and who meditates on his law day and night. That person is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yield its fruit in season, and whose leaf does not wither whatever they do prospers. But not so the wicked. They are like the chaff that the wind blows away. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous. For the Lord watches over the way of the righteous. But the way of the wicked leads to destruction. I'll tell you right now this is my favorite Psalm. So just put the sermon down for a minute. Something personal about me. I struggle to have personal time with the Word of God because for a job I spend a lot of time getting ready for you to make sure I can teach you something new. So much of my brain is spent in work mode when it comes to the Bible that I have to come up with creative ways to have personal time with God's Word because anytime I'm reading the scripture my analytical brain is going to the timeline and breaking it out and doing those things. So something I started doing almost a year ago is I started memorizing the Psalms because now I'm not pen and paper, I'm not in front of my laptop, I'm not trying to cross reference and historicize, I'm just trying to recite the Word of God in my head. So I memorized this Psalm, not exactly word for word in this translation, and I recite it to myself every night before I go to sleep. And if I can make it through this one without falling asleep, then I go to the next one and then I go to the next one. So far I haven't been able to memorize more than 3 Psalms before I actually fall asleep. But I have been reciting this particular Psalm to myself for almost a year and been reflecting on it. And so I'm going to try and show you how this works. So verse 1 opens up and when we talk about, I'm not going to try not to be too English classy but when we talk about parallelism, we want to look at is the author saying the same thing twice, right? My wife is beautiful, my beautiful wife. Or is the author saying 2 opposite statements? My wife is beautiful and the rest of you are not, right? Those are, I just want to see who is paying attention, right? Everybody's woke up. So in this particular Psalm, and I'm sure you already sort of saw it, the author of the Psalm is comparing and contrasting 2 different things. We are comparing righteousness and wickedness. And we are contrasting what a righteous person does to what a wicked person does and what a righteous person receives to what a wicked person receives. And then there's 2 really special lines that show what will happen to a righteous person and what will happen to a wicked person. So the parallelism in this particular Psalm is contrasting the ideas of righteousness and wickedness. Now those of you who have actual Bibles, you might want to write in this a little bit. Verse 1 opens up, blessed is the one who does not. So that's the A section. I'm going to use A and B to describe the difference between righteousness and wickedness, right? Blessed is the one who does not. That starts my righteous side. And here the word blessed means characterized by happiness due to divine favor from God. The Old Testament Jews knew they were God's chosen people. They knew they had a special covenant relationship with God. Being in special covenant relationship with God is the biblical definition of blessed. And it's nothing to do with the dollars in your bank account or the year and make and model of the car that you drive or the brand on your clothing. Being blessed is being in covenant relationship with God. Why? Because it's through the covenant relationship with God that his favor is muted onto his children. Just look at Deuteronomy. So when we talk about the big Bible story, Deuteronomy is when Moses had to repeat the law to the upcoming generation because they were kids when they left Egypt, right? They may not remember the golden calf story at the bottom of Sinai because they've been wandering in the wilderness for 40 years. If you are 40 years or younger at the time Deuteronomy was written, you don't have personal memory of the Exodus. Your parents told you about it. Your parents told you how awesome God was. And then I'm sure like any kid, you go, then why did you not listen? Why am I still wandering in the wilderness for 40 years camping because you didn't... I don't know. But that's why the whole book of Deuteronomy repeats God's promises. And what's the primary thing he repeats? If you do what I say, you will be blessed and live in this land. I've sent you in to harvest where you have not reaped, right? I've sent you in to receive that which you did not build. But if you do not obey me, then I will put you in timeout, which is what happens later in the exilic period. So being blessed is characterized by happiness due to divine favor. Blessed is the one who does not. The latter part of verse one is the B section. This is showing us what are things that people who are not blessed do, or to say it the other way, what are things you can do that stop you from being blessed? Here it is. Walk in step with the wicked. Stand in the way that sinners take. Sit in the company of mockers. Do you notice the triplicate there? So the verse opens up with an A section. Blessed is the one who does not. And then he gives three separate instances. Do you also notice the verbs? Walking, standing, sitting. The motion that's happening in that part of verse one, I'm going from walking in step with the wicked, or the wicked means characterized by godless activity, creating guilt before God. You notice those two things are parallel opposites. You cannot be characterized by happiness due to divine favor of God, or characterized by godless activity, warranting God's judgment. These are two mutually exclusive things. You're either going to live on the righteous side, or you're going to live on the wicked side. And that's opening from verse one. So verse one, blessed are those who do not do these things. We do not conform our actions to be characterized by godless activity. Okay, pastor, I can get that. Yeah. Why, why, and here's something I just don't get. Why do people think that they can live characterizing their life by godless activity, and then tell God to make it okay? Right? Psalm one is opening up, and you have to make a choice. Your life will be characterized by happiness due to divine activity and obedience, or your life will be characterized by godless activity. You cannot have it both ways. You cannot take all the godless activity you want, and then make God bless it because you're somehow more special than everyone else in creation. So from verse one, three things. Don't walk in step with the wicked, which means we don't conform our actions to the wicked. We don't stand in the way that sinners take. We don't stand up for wicked actions, and three, we don't sit in the company of mockers. We should not get comfortable living in wickedness. So there's three pieces of parallel description expounding on what this wicked side means. Then you get to verse two, and now I have three pieces of description expounding the righteous side. So verse one, remember there were no verses, right? When the psalmist wrote Psalm one, Kenzie, he didn't stop and go here, let's put a two right here. This is just a poem. And so we can look at the parallelism, and yes, we broke it into verses so we can share it today, but the original verses, there's nothing there. So verse two gives you three things for the A side. So verses one and two together, to me, are the first section of this poem. We open up with, blessed are those who does not, and then BBB, three things for wicked, and then two is AAA, three things. So what are the three things that to provide the action of the righteous? Number one, whose delight is in the law of the Lord, all capital letters. What does that mean? Anytime you see Lord, all capital letters in English, that means Yahweh, the covenant name of God. So the very first thing that should typify someone who lives a righteous life is a delight for the word of God, the law of Yahweh. Notice that that is in direct opposition to walking in step with the wicked, right? The psalmist is saying there is a choice here. So those who are on the righteous side, they delight in the word of God or in the law of Yahweh, the covenant-making God. Number two, they meditate on this law. It's one thing to say, my children like Olive Garden. My daughter's in the back going, yes, what? Yeah, it's one thing to say my children like Olive Garden, but if they never think about it, if they never talk about it, then how much do they really like it, right? If when Friday comes and it's our family Sabbath day and we know we're going out to lunch and all of a sudden my daughter goes, dad, you know where we should go for lunch today? We should go to Olive Garden. Why? Because she was thinking about it. Why? Because she likes it. That's meditating on the word of God. It doesn't mean this Eastern style meditation. It means that the word of God is forefront in your thoughts that lead to your lifestyle. Do we consider the word of God on a Tuesday at 10 a.m. when you're refreshing your coffee at work? I don't know. I can't speak for what happens inside your mind. There's a whole lot going on in here I can't speak for either, so don't blame me. So two, not only do we have a delight in the law of the Lord, but two, we meditate on that law and then the third part is we meditate on it day and night. We don't, the righteous do not give themselves a break from the word of God. There's no reason to. The righteous consider, think about, meditate on, reflect on the way your actions line up with and this is a day or night thing. It's not like I get a day off from being righteous, right? There's no Sabbath from righteously. There's no vacation day from being a Christian. The righteous meditate on the law and they meditate on it day and night. So that's your first big contrast is verses 1 and 2. Now we make it to verse 3. I'm going to get three more things that describe the righteous lifestyle. So here it is. That person, meaning the righteous one, the one who does not do the three wicked activities but does do the three righteous activities, now I get a promise. That person is like a tree planted by streams of water. Stop. Remember we're reading poetry, okay? So not everybody's going to just get up and leave church because they're a tree. See, Father's Day dad joke. Sorry, on any given day I could do a dad joke, Father's Day, getting you to grow in an eye roll is just a total win for me. So verse 3, that person is like a tree planted by streams of water. Remember we are talking about 3 to 5,000 years ago when this was written. Agrarian society. What is a stream of water in a desert area? Life. You can't have life without water. Just think about taking a tree and planting it in the desert. How functional is that? How life giving is that tree going to be? But what is a tree that is planted, now notice the tree didn't plant itself, right? So when a tree is planted, it's already implying that somebody planted the tree in a place where it would receive good life. So the tree being planted by the stream of water, the tree is a life that depends on the blessing of God's provision. That's what he is. A tree planted by streams of water and then we get 2 more things about the tree. Number 1, the tree will yield its fruit in season. So here we're going to brush right up against what does it really mean to be blessed. What it means to be blessed is there will be seasons of your life that are amazingly fruitful because God has made it that way. Notice I said seasons of life. We don't live in harvest 365 days a year. Why? Because if you didn't spend time preparing the soil and planting and weeding and preparing, then your harvest is not going to be that great. But if you spent the time, and think about an agrarian culture, if we spent the time getting up and putting in the hard work to prepare the soil and till it and remove the rocks so that the plants could grow well and then to put in the fertilizer and to water and to tend it and to care for it and to put in stability so the vines could grow, right? Put in that trellis in order for the vine to operate. Why? Why do that? Because we want to maximize the output when that season comes. But that season's output was based on all of these seasons work. That's what they're talking about because that's the season they live in. They don't have McDonald's drive-thru. If they want to eat in the fall, they better plant in the spring. This is where their life lived on. And why do you think there was so much more readily understanding of how God's provision in their life works? We just go to work and expect to get paid because that's what our normal society does. But we forget the fact that in order for me to go to work, my heart has to beat and my lungs have to work and I have to be healthy enough. There are so many things that God still does for us in order for us to be good stewards of that which he has given us. So the tree is the righteous man. The streams of water is the provision from God. The yielding of fruit is the product of that man's work. And then his leaves do not wither. Why do the leaves of the tree not wither? Because they were planted by the source of life, by the gardener who knew better. That doesn't mean that we're supposed to bear fruit 365 days a year. There is a season for growing. There's a season for harvesting. There's a season for weeding, season for planting. Is anybody else hearing the Beatles song in their head right now besides me? Uh-huh, come on. All of you who are younger, ask your parents who the Beatles are and get an education. And then the back part of verse 3, here's a promise. So the back part of verse 3, I want you to label that with the letter C. The letter C is that there's only 2 promises in this whole passage. C is whatever they do, prospers. Now if my parents were here and they will probably watch this when they get home from their church, my parents will tell you that as a human being, I have an uncanny batting percentage of things that I try to do. Even as a child. When I would put my hand in my effort to doing something and there was a chance that it was either going to break my way or it was going to break out, I almost, things almost always break my way. When I try to do something, I almost always succeed. Now my wife is dying for you to hear the cello story of the one time I tried to learn a musical instrument and I failed miserably. So if you want to hear about Pastor Bill's biggest failure, go to my wife after church and ask her for the cello story and you will hear about the worst time I ever tried to learn a musical instrument. But outside of everybody's got to have one failure in order to recognize success. So that was the one thing I screwed up in life. But I've often asked myself, well why is that? Why is it that certain people put in a lot of effort and get very little out of it and other people put in a moderate amount of effort and it just seems to multiply and things just work? This is the promise here for the righteous person. Now remember, fruit only happens in one season. It doesn't happen all year long. So those people who want to tell you if you just give money to God, he's going to send you money in the mail. That's not what this says. So please don't think that I'm walking into the prosperity gospel and getting way off on a tangent. No. The thing is if we live in an agrarian society, we absolutely understand that God blessing us with rain now turns into fruit later. We relate the two differently because they had a much longer view of how God's provision works. What they're saying is the righteous person who's the tree planted following God's life being receiving provision from God, that person is guaranteed to bear fruit when it's time. That person is guaranteed to live through the winter and the harsh seasons because the life that comes to them is the stream sent by God and that person is guaranteed to prosper in their efforts. That's what that says. It doesn't guarantee that you're going to be wealthy. It doesn't guarantee that you're going to be tall or skinny or any of those kinds of things. What it guarantees is when push comes to shove, if you live your life leaning into God, things will eventually turn right. We still live in a world of suffering. Please don't think I'm trying to say that we don't have suffering in our world. There's evil in our world. The ultimate promise, the ultimate promise of provision is resurrection in Christ, resurrection from a world where we no longer have to deal with sin. That's the long term portrait of the gospel. Here in verse 3, this righteous person on this side is guaranteed to bear fruit, guaranteed to survive the storms and guaranteed to be able to prosper. That word, prosper, there literally means a life directed towards steady success. That's the term if you want to write it down. Steady success. Not lightning in a bottle, not checks in the mail. Steady success as we move towards following God. Then you get to verse 4. Now we flip back over to the B side. So if those of you taking notes, you want to put a B by 4. But not so the wicked. So all those cool promises about being a tree planted by streams of water and guaranteed to be fruitful and guaranteed to survive the winter. That doesn't apply to the wicked guy over here. But not so the wicked. The wicked are like the chaff that the wind blows away. You remember when we were talking about Boaz and I was telling you about the winnowing fan and he would take the fork and throw it up in the air and what they wanted to keep would go down and the lighter chaff would go up and the wind blows it away? That's the chaff. We separate the wheat from the chaff. The wheat is what we eat and make bread out of. The chaff is the wasted part of the plant that has no usage. We don't even feed it to our animals. We just let it blow away and die. That's the wicked person. Not so are the wicked. They are like the chaff that the wind blows away. Number 2, therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment. Now from a Christian perspective, that sounds weird, right? Why are the wicked don't have to stand in the judgment? Here's why we mishear that verse. Because we're New Testament Christians and this is an Old Testament song. You have to take off your Christian lenses for a second and ask yourself, what did David mean by judgment? What did Moses mean by judgment? Did they have a fully revealed Jesus Christ centered gospel position in the middle of the book of Psalms? I would argue probably not. The gospel has been, like the doctrine of the Holy Spirit has been revealed over time. The doctrine of the Trinity revealed over time. The fullness of the gospel doesn't happen to the New Testament. So which judgment are we talking about here? We are talking about a final judgment of blessing which is what the Old Testament Jews were waiting for. Today in the New Testament context, those of you like eschatology or you remember when we went through Revelation and I told you about the Bema judgment. When God's people, their actions are judged and he doles out blessings. That's the judgment the psalmist is referring to here. He is not referring to the final judgment of do I go to heaven or hell. He is referring to the final judgment of what blessing do I receive from my king for my service. Because in the Old Testament perspective, they absolutely believed in that one time end of days resurrection to be restored to the kingdom of Abraham. They believed in that one resurrection. When Jesus rose from the dead in April the 9th of AD 30, totally changed the perspective of resurrection in the New Testament context. But when we say they will not stand in the judgment, I would argue that that is the Bema judgment. They will not stand and receive blessing from God for the next life. That's what it means. Will not stand in the judgment. And then the last one, nor will sinners be included in the assembly of the righteous. See, in the Old Testament perspective, they are waiting for the restoration of the kingdom. Sometimes as New Testament Christians, we think about Jesus on the cross. We think about Jesus as a savior and we forget about Jesus as a messiah and as a king with a kingdom. That's why that revelation study is so important. Don't extricate Jesus the savior from Jesus the king. Don't separate Jesus the creator and Jesus the messiah. He's all of those things. So here you have another 3 things describing the wicked guy on this side of the pulpit. I'm not sure why the wicked is over here but whatever. The wicked is like chaff that the wind blows away. The wicked is wasted, needless agricultural waste. Not the precious fruit tree planted by a stream. The wicked will not stand in the judgment of the righteous. They will not receive blessing when it's time. Just like fruit when it's in season. And the third one, nor will they stand in the assembly of the righteous. The wicked will not be included in God's final kingdom. Then that gets us to verse 6 where we wrap all of this together. Verse 6. For the Lord, notice Yahweh the covenant making God of Israel. The Lord watches over the way of the righteous. Now that word watches over, this is very important. It means that God is cognizant and aware of the details of that which he watches. It's not like zoning out while watching crime documentaries. It means an active participation, an active cognizant intellectual awareness of what's going on. I am looking at that and I am recognizing what's going on there. That's what it means when the Lord watches over. It's not just this omnipotent, well yeah, of course God knows what's happening in my life. No, it's that God is watching. God is actively seeing what is happening in my life. The Lord watches over the way of the righteous but the way of the wicked. Again you notice the juxtaposition. The Lord is watching over, cognizant and aware of the details of the righteous. But the way of the wicked and then the end of verse 6 is the second promise. The seed leads to destruction. We've already hinted at it with the chaff being blown away. We've already hinted at it that the righteous don't get to stand with the assembly. They don't get to receive the blessings of the coming kingdom. We've already hinted at all of that. And now the psalmist ends and 6 is kind of like the smashed together message of the whole psalm. 6 is A, B, C. Ready? For the Lord watches over the way of the righteous but the way of the wicked and then C, here's your final promise, leads to destruction. This psalm is all about the individual life lived serving God, following God. That's still an Old Testament concept. God is a covenant making God in the Old Testament. God is a sacrificial loving God in the Old Testament. God doesn't suffer no fools in the Old Testament. He's loving, He's providing, He's patient to a point. But He's also righteous. He's also true. And He also has an unalterable plan for humanity that Psalm 1 expounds beautifully in this lyrical style poetry and shows us through this multiple parallelism. And if I could sum it all this way, here's what I would say. The main theme of this psalm is the difference between the righteous man and the wicked man. The primary lessons from this psalm, verses 1 and 2 show us that the actions of one's life contrasts the righteous and the wicked. Verses 3 through 5, righteousness leads to steady success, wickedness does not. And then finally verse 6, salvation is found in being known by God as one characterized by a life of obedience to Him. That's how I would break this psalm down. If I was looking for the basic lessons, 1 through 2, the actions of our life dictate whether we're righteous or wicked. Not the words of your mouth. A youth pastor a long time ago when I was a kid used to say, if your life is a silent movie would it still be a Christian film? Like if the only thing Christian about you is your church language on Sundays, where is the righteousness? Righteousness is obedience over time played out over life, right? So verses 1 and 2, the actions of one's life contrast the righteous and the wicked. Number 2, righteousness leads to steady success, wickedness will not. Now somebody's going to come back and go, well then Pastor Bill, why are there so many sinners who are rich? Why does it seem like the ungodly get to win more than the godly? I think you're looking too short term and not enough long term. There is a coming moment where godlessness will be judged for exactly what it is. There is a coming time where there's not going to be any more time to preach the gospel because the gospel is going to come due. That's a coming time. There's also a coming time for those who choose to live righteously under King Jesus. There's also a coming time when we get to that Bema judgment and some of us are going to heal, well done my good and faithful servant. Now come enter into the joy of your master. And those things are coming. Just as surely as Jesus rose, Jesus is going to return. So there's a lot of gospel centric message here, but this psalm is about you as an individual. When we get to next week, we're going to look at a psalm that talks about us as a corporate group. But this morning I want to stick the lesson from verse 6. Salvation is found in being known by God as one characterized by a life of obedience to him. The New Testament connection here. I'm looking for when Jesus said, to me one of the most frightening verses in all of the New Testament. Jesus looks forward to the end times and he says, there's going to be some who come up to me and say, Lord, but we cast out devils in your name. We did this in your name. And the master is going to look at him and says, yeah bro, but I never knew you. That to me is one of the most frightening verses in the New Testament. Because it's not about how many Bible verses I can repeat. It's not about how much theology I can memorize or how big my church is or what my paycheck is or whether I watch Christian movies versus sports movies. When it comes down to it, does my faith in the resurrected King Jesus make me characterized as a life of one who loves God and lives for him? That's a tough question. Now does that mean that because I have given my life to Jesus that I will never deal with sin again? No. It does not mean that. Does it mean because I want to live for God that I'm still not stuck in a world that lives for sin? That is exactly what it means. We are stuck in this world until Jesus comes back. And I want to give you an analogy that I used with my children this week. We were sitting, I don't remember where Micah was, but he and I were having a conversation and Micah gets very frustrated when things are not black and white. On that autism spectrum, things are good and things aren't bad. Things are sin and things are righteous. Things are Jesus and go to hell. It is just two very clear dichotomies. And he gets very frustrated because the world system is going farther and farther and farther from righteousness. Does anybody feel that frustration? Is it just my son? Here's what I told my son. And I heard myself say this and thought, wow, that sounds really cool. I should remember that. So I'm going to say my wife has probably told me this at some point and that's why I sounded cool. I want all of us to imagine that we are on a boat in the middle of the ocean and the boat is sinking. Does it matter how much we repair the boat more than save the people in the water? I said, Micah, he gets so frustrated and he's right. That's what I got to say, son, you're right. The world's unrighteous system is frustrating as mess for those who want to live according to the word of God. It just is. But am I going to invest my time in trying to repair a boat that is destined for the bottom of the ocean versus accept the reality that while I'm on this boat, it's still going to sink. But the more life jackets that I can hand out before it finally goes under, the more people will be in the kingdom later. That's a hard truth that we're still working through with my son. That this song reminds me of because this song illustrates we are going to have to live in a world where some live for righteousness and some live for wickedness and that's just the way it is. Spending time complaining about why wicked people do wicked things is really stupid to me. Why do sinners sin? Because they're sinners. Woo! Like, wow, I didn't mean to rock anybody's theological world there. But we live in a world full of people that are addicted to sin. So don't get upset when they sin. Jesus already died for their sin. Even if they haven't received him yet. Even if they haven't placed their faith in him yet. I believe that Jesus' death on the cross was great enough for all of the sin in all of the world. Just because Jesus hasn't saved them yet doesn't make them unworthy of salvation. And the boat can sink. That's not going to bother me. But really I don't want to watch anybody sink with it. So let me give you the takeaways. We bring this Psalm 1 in for a landing. Here it is. The key distinction between the righteous and the wicked is their lifestyle. Salvation is the culmination of a life lived by faith in obedience to God. And now I'm going to quote Vody Balkham because he said it better than I can. The only thing you need for salvation is faith. The only thing needed for salvation is faith. But because somebody is thinking, wait a minute, what about obedience? Don't we have to be obedient? Obedience doesn't buy salvation. It is the product of salvation. We are saved by faith through God's grace in Christ. Absolutely 100% never for question. But those who are saved choose to live obediently. If there is no fruit on the tree, how do you know it's an orange tree? That joke didn't really work well when I lived in Florida. Because everybody just walks outside and goes, duh. Obedience is the product of salvation. All these promises about the righteous life are the product of salvation. Don't expect somebody to live for Jesus until they come to Jesus. Don't expect somebody to reflect God's righteousness when their life is still characterized by Godlessness. That's just setting them up for failure. Draw people to Christ because he is the one who transforms lives. And then our life, so salvation in a moment, sanctification in a lifetime. For those of you who like your big theological words, salvation is the moment we're saved. Sanctification is a lifetime process of learning how to act like it. You get to be saved in a moment. You got a whole lifetime to figure out how to live in a way that reflects the grace of Jesus.