Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Thank you for joining us in worship today. Whether you are some of our long-distance family members joining us online or whether you are here in the building. Thank you for being a part of the Catalyst family. Now here at Catalyst we're about one thing and that is loving people to life change in Christ. So if you are worshiping here with us, we love you. If you are watching online, we love you. But we love you enough to tell you the truth. We should not remain the same the longer we are part of the body of Christ. Being a Christian for a long period of time and not changing is like having a gym membership for a long period of time and not changing. It just means you're not doing it right. You're not using it for all that it is designed to do. The church is designed to transform us in community to being more like Jesus. And one of the primary ways in which we do that is by studying his word together. So this morning we are going to continue our series through the book of Psalms. And somebody asked me, am I going to do every Psalm? No I'm not. This week and next week and then we take a break from Psalms because there's 150 of them and some of them are really long so we couldn't do it all in one day anyway. And I don't know about you but we're not going to spend an entire year just trying to get through a book. So turn with me to Psalm 19. Psalm 19. While you're turning there let me give you the key thought that holds all of these messages together. The book of Psalms is ancient Hebrew lyrical poetry that expresses timeless relevance to anyone striving to live a life that honors God. That is what the book of Psalms is. It is a collection of ancient Hebrew lyrical poetry. And the four things you need to know about the book of Psalms is number one, they were written by different authors over the period of a thousand years and were eventually collected together into the book of Psalms that you and I know today. But it's 150 separate poems that were organized and fit together. Second, you'll notice in your English Bible Psalms don't rhyme and that is because they're not designed that way. Ancient Hebrew lyrical poetry uses different literary devices other than just rhyming in order to make poetry. Three, Psalms can be described in four main categories, praises, songs, laments, and imprecatory Psalms. And number four, the book of Psalms as we know it was likely compiled after the exile period into its current form. After the exile period. So let's start in Genesis 1 and walk our way through the big Bible story to the exile period and then we'll understand all that happened. So in the beginning, see different word, you got to be on your toes. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth and into a garden at a place called Eden. And into the garden at Eden, he placed two human beings, Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve's first two children are Cain and Abel. After sin, they're ejected from the garden and which brother, which is the brother who killed the brother? Cain, that's right. Cain kills his brother Abel. So they're able, they eventually have a son, Seth and so on. The line progresses from Seth and Cain all the way till we get to Noah. In Noah's day, he was the only righteous man in God's eyes. So God decided to send a punishment onto the sin of the world and he sent the punishment in the form of a flood. Into this flood, God tells Noah to build a boat named the Ark. And on the Ark, he places two of each kind of unclean animal and I think it's like seven of every kind of clean animal. So there's actually more than just two. The unclean animals are a pair. The clean animals, the animals they would also use for worship and sacrifice. See how worship and sacrifice is provided for before the punishment for sin happens. All on the Ark. Then the flood happens, rains for 40 days and 40 nights. A year later, the flood waters recede. Adam and his children and their wives all walk off the boat. Humanity gets a restart. That's Genesis 9. Fast forward to Genesis 12. God chooses a man named Abram who's living in Ur of the Chaldeans. And he tells them go to the land that I will show you and I'm going to be your God and you're going to be my people. I'm going to bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you. And your descendants will be as numerous as the sand on the she-shore, stars in the sky. And he changes his name to Abraham. Then Abraham has a firstborn son named... Nope. Firstborn son. Ishmael. See, I got to change it up or you memorize it. So he has a firstborn son named Ishmael. Then God has the covenant and Abram goes to God and goes, but God, I got a boy right here. It's my boy Ishmael. Let him be the covenant carrier. And God says, no, I promised you a son from your wife who is named Sarah. I would have taken either one, Sarah or Sarah. And so Sarah has a son and his name is Isaac. Isaac receives the covenant from God, becomes the covenant carrier. And then Isaac has two children. The older of Isaac's children is Esau. That's right. Esau's younger brother is named Jacob. Jacob receives the covenant promise from God. And then they move on. Jacob has 12 sons who become the 12 tribes of Israel. One of Jacob's sons is sold into slavery by his brothers and for 13 years rises up through the ranks of the Egyptian hierarchy, ultimately landing in Pharaoh's palace and being in the right place at the right time with the right ability to interpret dreams from God to save his entire father's clan from a famine. That young man's name is Joseph. Fantastic. And if you have never read the Joseph story in the book of Genesis, it is the most epic tale. It's fantastic. The only thing it's missing is pirates. That's it. Other than that, I think it's the most epic tale. And so the children of Israel all move into Egypt. Does anybody know the actual region in Egypt starts with a G that Pharaoh places them? Goshen. That's right. He places them in the land of Goshen. The reason the Egyptians place them there is the Egyptians really don't like shepherds. They think they're dirty. They're icky people because they work and live with animals. So the Egyptians place them away from each other, but they're protected by the whole Egyptian army. So this whole time, God is building his people and protecting them using a foreign military power to do so. And then eventually, how many years pass between the end of Genesis and the beginning of Exodus? 400 years. And then a Pharaoh rises who doesn't know God's people, enslaves them, and they call out for a deliverer, and God reaches out for a man who was born in Egypt but raised up in Midian. He comes back with a staff. He does some really cool miracles. His brother is Aaron. His sister is Miriam. That man's name is? Moses. Moses is the deliverer, and he brings them out of Egypt, 10 plagues, parting the Red Sea. They cross over. They go to the foot of Mount Sinai. God gives them the law, teaching them how to live in obedience. And Jen, wouldn't it be fantastic if they just did what God said? But unfortunately, then the rest of the Bible wouldn't be there. They have an obedience problem. At the foot of Mount Sinai, Moses' brother Aaron, instead of teaching them to worship the Lord God, has them worshiping a golden calf, an idol. The same kind of idol they were just rescued from in Egypt. And God gets really irritated. The ground opens. They get swallowed. God purifies his people, and then they start trying to live obediently. But they don't. And so they wander in the wilderness. For how many years? Forty years. Forty years they wander in the wilderness. God has the old generation, the generation who actually experienced the miracles of God coming out of Egypt. That oldest generation dies off. Now, the people who were children during the 10 plagues, who were not leading the nation but were being followed in the nation. So Nina, I'm just going to pick you out because I know you're a child. So Nina's generation, everybody whose parents are sitting in this room, you got to both experience the plagues and cross into Canaan. But everyone in this room who's a parent did not. That was the change. So God raises up a new man to lead the children of Israel. And that man's name is? Joshua. Joshua crosses the Red Sea, invades the land of Canaan, begins to take the land that God has promised them. But even they have an obedience problem. Enter the judges period. Everyone does what is right in their own eyes. Everyone decides for themselves how they should live instead of obeying God. And the epitome of that is going to God himself and saying, we want a what? Like all the other kids have? A king. And they want to have a king just like all the other human kingdoms have because they think that will make them important to have a human king. And so the first human king of the United Monarchy of Israel is? Saul. Second one? David. Third one? Solomon. After Solomon? Civil War. I meant Civil War. But you're right. You could go with that. But after Solomon, what happens to the nation? Civil War. They split into the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of? How many tribes are up here? Ten. How many tribes are down here? I just have to point out, if this is your first Sunday of Catalyst, this is a whole lot of Bible knowledge. But we've been working on this for like two years. And it's super important. So just keep following the story. Ten up here, two down here. And they still can't live obediently. Like if you asked me what is the, tell me the story of the Bible in one sentence. My favorite sentence is the unending love of God for an imperfect failing people. We just mess it up all the time. And then eventually God says, listen, you have sinned so much that I now have to put you in a time out from all the blessings that I have given you. So he brings in an exterior pagan nation who in 722 BC conquers the northern kingdom of Israel. That nation is? Assyria. And then in judgment for Assyria for judging his people, God has Assyria fall to? Babylon. And then Babylon comes in in 586 BC and defeats the southern kingdom of Judah, now carrying all of God's people into time out. How long are they in time out? 70. That's right. They're in 70 years in time out. And then during those 70 years, the nation of Babylon falls to the nation of? Persia. And then God uses the Persian king to allow his people to come home. And the time out is over. They now come home and they begin to rebuild the nation. They rebuild the temple. They rebuild the walls. That's your book of Nehemiah. Ezra restarts the worship. Hezekiah. All of that happens. Interestingly enough, if you really like big theological ideas, the spirit of God falls in Solomon's temple. Shekinah Glory falls and nobody can stand because the presence of God is so thick. That never happens again in the second temple period. God's presence never reinstates the temple, although they do reinstate the worship. That's probably a sermon for another day, but just keep that. So then we make it to the end of the Old Testament and God says, I will send you a Messiah. I will send you a promised one who will redeem my people and bring them back. And you'll know it's him because I'm going to send his bro ahead of him as the forerunner. What is the last book of the New Testament or Old Testament? Malachi. Prophet Malachi gives us the prophecy of the forerunner. How many years between the New Testament or Old Testament and New Testament? For 400 years, God doesn't say anything. And then, I mean, we could keep going way past exile period, but we keep going and God shows up and he sends a redeemer. And then ultimately all of creation is redeemed. That's like the short version of the New Testament. The reason I want you to see that big Bible story every single Sunday is that when you read your Bible every day at home, you now have mile markers. You've got like chapters or seasons, if you will. Those of you who like watch season shows and there are episodes within seasons, you now can see the big mile markers in the Bible story. We are reading the book of Psalms, which is smack dab in the middle of the Bible. But the Psalms that we're studying have been written over the thousand year period from the time of Moses to the time of David. That covers the Exodus period, the incursion into Canaan, the judges period, the monarchy period, all of that time people were worshiping and serving and loving God. And those poems are what we have today as the book of Psalms. Now, we're first going to look at Psalm 19. I'm going to read it for you. Then those of you who like to take notes, I'm going to give you my outline version of it. And then we're going to start walking through it. So here we go. Psalm 19, starting in verse one. And God sent them in the expanse to the heavens to give light on the earth. It is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, like a champion rejoicing to run his course. It rises on one end of the heaven and makes its circuit to the other. Nothing is deprived of its warmth. The law of the Lord is perfect, refreshing the soul. The statutes of the Lord are trustworthy, making the wise simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, giving joy to the heart. The commands of the Lord are radiant, giving light to the eyes. The fear of the Lord is pure, enduring forever. The decrees of the Lord are firm, and all of them are righteous. They are more precious than gold, than much pure gold. They are sweeter than honey, than honey from the honeycomb. By them your servant is warned. In keeping them, there is great reward. But who can discern their own errors? Forgive my hidden faults. Keep your servant also from willful sins. May they not rule over me. Then I will be blameless, innocent of great transgression. May the words of my mouth and this meditation of my heart be pleasing in your sight, Lord, my rock and my Redeemer. You may be familiar with that last verse, but how many of you knew this was the whole thing it was connected to? So here you go, we're going to look at Psalm 19. My outline has three basic pieces to it. Those of you who like notes, verses 1 through 6 are speaking about how creation declares the glory of God. Verses 7 to 11, Scripture matures the character of man. And 12 to 14 is a personal prayer of request and dedication to the Lord. So you get three sections, 1 to 6, 7 to 11, and 12 to 14. The first one is creation declares the glory of God. Second, Scripture matures the character of man. And the third is the prayer of request and dedication. So here we go, we start in verse 1. Creation declares the glory of God. In verse 1, the heavens declare the glory of God. Semicolon. So let's just take the first half. The heavens. Now, this word heavens literally means that which is visible when you look up. This is not speaking of heaven in the sense we would refer to the heaven as God's home. This is the stars in the heavens. So sometimes when you see a word, we have to realize in English that we have words that can mean more than one thing. In fact, what does the word spring mean? Somebody just give me a definition of the word spring. A season. To jump. Water. Coiled, bouncy thing. You can't know, that's a technical definition Alex, coiled, bouncy thing. You can't know which of those definitions I'm using unless I put it into a sentence. Spring sprung at the spring. Now all of a sudden you're going to have fun with that. Well, in the same way, there are words in the Hebrew language that can mean the residence of God. Heaven can mean that. Heaven can also mean the place you see when you look up. The expanse of the sky. In this instance, the word heaven means that which is visible when you look up. The sun, the moon, the stars, the comets. The vastness that you and I would call space. If I know, but I do. Somebody was thinking it. So space itself, the cosmos, the universe declares the glory of God. The word glory literally means the importance, the splendor, the distinction, the riches of God. The heavens that we see when we look up, they declare the importance, the splendor, or the singular distinction of God. And then, you know, we talked about parallelism before, right? When a verse says the same thing twice, that's what it's saying. So it says the heavens declare the glory of God. And next, the skies. Now, the skies is a different word. Skies literally means, actually means the beaten metal plate or the vault or the firmament, the barrier that has been placed between the heavens and the earth. So if the earth is surrounded in their ancient view, the earth is surrounded by a shield that protects what is on earth from what is in the heavens. Today, you and I would call the protective shield that's around planet earth the atmosphere. Now, that's our word for it. But in their world, things that protect are shields, right? A beaten metal plate is a shield. So this word sky literally means the thing that protects us from the heavens. So not only do the heavens declare the riches and splendor of God, but his protection of us from that very thing is the work of his hands. Now we're starting to get a picture of how big, how powerful, how majestic the God of Israel is when all that is in space reflect his splendor or his riches or his greatness. And the fact that he has placed a shield around us protecting life on earth from all that is in space. Now, could David have known all that we know about the universe today? No, I just don't think that's reasonable. He's looking from his perspective, looking up. And I don't know if you've ever looked up at the night sky. It's one of my favorite things to do in winter when it's not stupid hot outside, right? When it's not stupid hot and stupid humid outside, I will go outside and look at the night sky. Those of you who are summer people, Donna, I will just continue praying for you and all your trial. I'll pray for you too, because I just can't do it. But even in this verse to verse, do you see the size of the God that David is talking about? A God whose glory is reflected in the whole of the universe and also reflected in his care and concern for life right here on this little stone that he's placed a shield around us. And that shield is the works of his very hands. Then we get to verse two. Day after day, they pour forth speech. What is the they we're talking about? The they is space itself and the universe itself. The they are the things that are mentioned in verse one. The universe itself and God's protection of planet Earth, which we understand a little bit better today. But even David understood they had a clear belief that there is something that protects planet Earth from space. In Genesis, it's called the firmament. In the days of creation, he created the vault or the expanse between the waters and the waters. So he had an understanding. We have a much deeper understanding of it today. So day after day, they pour forth speech. Night after night, they reveal knowledge. See the parallelism again. Verse two is now giving you more information about verse one. Not only does the sheer presence of the atmosphere in universe reflect the glory and splendor and riches of God, but they also pour forth speech or reveal knowledge, which means they not only look cool, they say something. They are there declaring day after day, night after night. What does that mean? Air day. There's that you know what that that nice theological term air day. They declare air day speech and knowledge. Then verse three doubles down on verse two, but they have no speech. They use no words. No sound is heard from them, which means now somebody who is looking at this narratively might look at verse two and verse three and go, well, that's a contradiction. It's not a contradiction. It's a clarification. What it's saying in verse two is that the universe and atmosphere that we met in verse one day and night, 365 24 7 declare the glory of God, but they do not declare it audibly or verbally. Verse three is not negating verse two. It is clarifying in what way this poor forth speech or this reveal knowledge occurs from the atmosphere and the universe. They have no speech. They use no words. No sound is heard from them. But look at the first part of verse four. I call it verse four a yet their voice goes out into all the earth, their words to the ends of the world. So the atmosphere in the universe that are reflecting the glory of God are also revealing something to humanity who are down here looking at it. We're observing it. And this thing that they reveal isn't revealed in words. Nature doesn't talk to us, but God can speak to us through it. That's what he's saying. Right. We don't worship nature. We worship the God who made nature. There's the difference between pantheism and theism. So those of you like your worldviews pantheism pan, meaning world. God is in the world. Whereas in theism, God is outside of the world. God created the world, but the world is not God. So those of you like Disney movies, let's go with Pocahontas, right? The Disney movie Pocahontas paint with all the colors of the wind. I knew someone would get it right in a pantheistic worldview. Deity or God exists inside of nature itself. Deity and nature are inseparable. That's why there's a God of the water. There's a God of the wind. There's the God of the seas. My people, the Polynesian people, right? The god of Pele is the God of the volcano, right? The God is actually in the volcano. Whereas we as Christians, we are a theistic religion. God made nature, but he exists outside of nature. So there's the difference between pantheism and theism. Their voice goes out in all the earth, their words to the end of the world. And then the back part of verse four is the message itself that the universe and the atmosphere declare every single day. What is that message? For four B, in the heavens, God has pitched a tent for the sun. All right, everybody got that. We'll just go. No. So here's what it is. The universe itself, the atmosphere that protects humanity, that declares 24 hours a day, 365 and a quarter days a year, it declares a singular message. What is that in the heavens, meaning in the thing we see when we look up from from Earth in the heavens, God has pitched a tent for the sun. What is pitching a tent means made the home or dwelling place of right. So if you would allow me to translate for B into our everyday speak in the universe, God made the home for the sun. Or if you were if I switch that around, God placed the sun in its place in the universe. So what for B, that is the message that verses one, two and three are building up to for us is that nature itself declares. I had a creator. Never thought you'd find apologetics in the middle of the book of Psalms, but there it is. Creation cries. I had a creator. Not sure why my phone is going off in church. That's creative. All like my phone's vibrating. Yep. My phone's vibrating in my pocket and I'm like, I'm literally my whole family is in this room, except for my daughter. So what's going on? So yeah, so verse four B in the heavens, meaning in the universe, God as the creator pitched a tent, made the home for the sun. What he is saying here is God placed the sun in exactly where it needs to be. If I was looking for scriptural support for the message that the universe gives us, I would find it in Genesis one, chapter 17. And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light to the earth. That's creation week. God placed the sun and the moon exactly where they needed to be for a purpose. So they could rel, they could take over the job of giving light because remember light was made on day one. The sun wasn't placed until day four. We talked a lot about that at VBS, the difference between the atheistic story of the universe and the creation story of the universe. But I can give you supporting scientific evidence to support Psalms claim that the sun was placed in its place. Raise your hands, have you ever heard of the Goldilocks zone? Right? Yes, I definitely know my children have. So here's what the Goldilocks zone is. So everybody understands that our sun is in the middle of the universe, right? And the sun is this giant ball of never, well it actually isn't never ending, it will end eventually. Giant ball of nuclear fission and it's constantly giving out light and heat in the form of waves and radiation. And if you get too close, what happens? You burn up. If you're too far, you're too cold. Right? Just like, that's why they call it the Goldilocks zone. This was a little too hard, that one's a little too soft, this is a little too hot, this is a little too cold. There exists a very narrow band around every sun no matter what universe you're in. And do you know what determines the Goldilocks zone? The presence of liquid water on the surface of a planet. Because if you're too close to the sun, what happens to the water? It evaporates, turns into steam and leaves. And if you're too far from the sun, what happens to water? It freezes. So the Goldilocks zone is the band or the distance from a star like our sun in which liquid water can exist. So here's what I learned this week as I was researching for this. The earth exists within a narrow band surrounding the sun on which liquid water can exist on the surface of our planet. This is a required element in the search for any hospitable planet. There are millions and millions of dollars being spent right now trying to find other hospitable planets to make human colonies on. And this is the very first checkbox. If there is no liquid water, there cannot be human life. Because we are majority made up of water and we require water on a rather frequent basis I would say to stay healthy. So this idea of liquid water is the very first number one thing that must be searched for. And yet liquid water exists within a band where you can't be too close and can't be too far away. So here's what's interesting. The distance of the earth to the sun is 149.5 million kilometers. I'm going to give it to you in kilometers because it sounds more scientific, right? So 149.5 million kilometers is the distance from the center of the earth to the center of the sun. To the center of the sun. An alteration of that distance by 1.5 million kilometers and everything on earth dies. That is less than 1%. The heavens being, the earth, the sun being placed in the heavens in exactly the right distance. So that if you were to alter the distance of the earth to the sun by 1%, everything dies. Everything. That's Psalm verse 4. Now David is looking at it from an earth centric perspective, right? Because we're not going to discover that the sun is in the center of the universe for another couple thousand years. Until Copernicus looks through his telescope. Again, pirate. So that's what I think is so amazing is David made a point all those years ago about the glory of God that modern science has just now figured out is necessary for human life. If God didn't place the sun in exactly the right place, life on earth would be impossible. And that is the message that that verses 1, 2, 3, and the first part of verse 4. That is the message that they are declaring to us that if you are looking for evidence of the Almighty God, you don't have to start here. Now, if you are looking how to know him, you have to end here. You eventually have to get to scripture. That's what we call the difference between general revelation. The heavens declare the glory of God and special revelation. We learn how to be in relationship with God. That's the difference. But verse 4 tells us that God is placed the sun in exactly the right place. Then we get to verse 5. Now we're going to describe the sun from David's perspective here on earth. Verse 5. It is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber like a champion rejoicing to run his course. Now, bridegroom is an older term. We drop the word bride off of it. It's now just groom. Right? What is a groom? A groom is a person who is about to get married. Right? Who is about to have a bride who turns into a wife. Just as a bride becomes a wife, a groom becomes a husband. Which means the term bride and groom happened before or after the wedding? Before. Right? The bride term, the groom term happened before the wedding. After the wedding, we ditch the terms bride and groom and they become husband and wife. So as David is using this term bridegroom, he is talking about the joy of a man directly before his wedding. He is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber. This literally means his personal dwelling or his bed chamber. Why do you think the bridegroom is excited when he walks out of his bed chamber on the day of his wedding? You don't have to be gross, but why do you think about it? Because it's the last time he sleeps in that room alone. Right? After the wedding, what happens? He takes his bride back to his home. There is a lot of joy built up in this term bride. He could have used any term, but he chose to use this term. A term of endearment, a term of joy, a term of one of the greatest days in a man's life. When you transition from groom to husband, the bridegroom comes out of his chamber. Literally the canopy, the place where he lives. And again parallelism, second half of verse 5. A champion, literally a hero. The two terms here. It's a groom coming out of his house on the day of his wedding and it's a hero. A hero rejoicing to run his course or run his story. Right? Of course if a hero knew he was a hero, he'd do the story. Right? Oftentimes we look back and we call people heroes because maybe they didn't know. In David's illustrious view here of verse 5, the sun greets earth. The sun declares to earth the power of God like a groom on his wedding day and like a hero in the midst of his story. Then he keeps describing it. It rises at one end of the heavens and makes its circuit to the other. Nothing is deprived of its warmth. Now keep in mind, the sun is placed in its place by God. God is the one who sovereignly put the sun there, which means God is also the one who directs the activity of the sun. God is the one directing the earth. And what does the sun do? It rises at one end of the heavens. It makes a circuit to the other end of the heavens. Nothing is deprived of its warmth. David is speaking of the fact that the warmth, the radiance, that feeling that summer people get while standing in the sun. Right? My autumnal people, when you stand in front of the bonfire with marshmallow in hand, I have a joy that fills my soul as long as there are rices. Right? Our time is coming. We just got to wait it out, people. Just hold with me. What David is saying here in a very beautifully poetic way is that this message that there is a God who made the universe, an all-powerful, sovereign, splendorous God, is declared to every inch of everything on the entire planet. Because, look at the end of verse 6, nothing is deprived of its warmth. And what is it that the light and the warmth of the sun deliver? The message from the back half of verse 4. That I am the God who placed this in place for you so you could know that I am real, so you could know that I exist. That's the first point. That's just the first part of the poem that heaven declares the glory of God. And goodness, it took way too much time. Let's go to point two. Scripture matures the man. This starts in verse 7. And he's going to say over and over and over different ways that he describes the law or Scripture. Number one, the law of the Lord, notice capital letters, what does that mean? Yahweh, covenant name for God. The law of Yahweh is perfect. See, now we're not saying any Scripture. You notice he's not saying Scripture is perfect, like just generally any religious book or any religious text. No, he is saying the law of Yahweh, that is what is perfect. The law of Yahweh is perfect. It refreshes or renews the life or gives life to a living being. The law of Yahweh gives life to me. The statutes of Yahweh are trustworthy, making wise the simple. But both are illustrations of the same thing. Think two things that Scripture does in David's heart. It gives him life and it gives him wisdom. Verse 8, now we're going to have two more things that are saying the same thing. The precepts of Yahweh are right, giving joy to the heart. In David's day, the heart is the seat of his joy. He gives precepts, giving joy to my heart and the commands of the Lord are right, Giving light to the eyes. Notice how the heart is the seat of joy and the eyes are the seat of light. What is he saying? He's saying Scripture is the foundation by which I feel my way through life and I see my way through life. It gives joy to my heart. It gives light to my eyes. But we're not done yet. Verse 9, the fear of Yahweh, the fear of Yahweh is pure, enduring forever. The decrees of Yahweh are firm. All of them are righteous. Now this word fear in verse 9 does not mean like scary, spooky Halloween fear. This word fear means, and I really feel for those who are born in the 80s, we've overused the word awesome. Like dude, awesome! But what is awesome intended to mean? It's intended to mean something so amazing, so big, so intimidating that it creates a sense of awe in me. Like if I had the opportunity to meet King Charles, right? If I went out to lunch and I got the opportunity to sit down with King Charles, I'm not a British citizen, so technically he's not my king in any sense of the word. But I would definitely want to have manners. I would not want to insult a monarch of another country. I would be in awe of his position but not his person, right? If I had the chance to meet King Charles, I would do my best to show him respect, to show him honor because of who he is to someone else's country. Not necessarily because he owes it to me. That's what this idea, this awe, this sense of honored respect, let me use it that way. If you would allow me to change verse 9, the honored respect for Yahweh is pure. That's what that word fear means. The honored respect of Yahweh is pure. The decrees, meaning literally the instructions given to people, right? And David knows what decrees are because he's a king. He knows how to pass decrees. So not only is the honored respect of Yahweh pure, but the instructions given from Yahweh are firm. The instructions from God are not flexible. They're not in the middle. All of them are righteous, meaning all of the commands, all of the instructions that come from God are the way we know right from wrong. That's what righteousness is. Verse 10, they are more, now what is the they? They are the instructions, the commands from God given in the previous verse. They are more precious than gold, than much pure gold. They are sweeter than honey, than honey from the honeycomb. Again, parallelism in verse 10. The commands or the instructions that come from God are more precious than money and sweeter than sugar. I got to say, if you grow up in a house with me and Emily, sweeter than sugar is a pretty high bar, right? More money than money, more money than gold, more valuable than gold, tastier than honey, are the instructions or the commands from God. Why is that? Because of verse 11. By them your servant is warned. In keeping them there is great reward. So by what? By the instructions that God gives two verses ago. Your servant, you know what a servant is? A servant is one who identifies as serving of a master, right? So what is David saying? David is saying, I'm a servant of Yahweh. My identity as his servant derives from his glory, not mine. I am his servant. I'm defining myself through my relationship with him. And your servant is warned. In English, usually when you say you're going to get a warning, like that's usually a bad thing, unless you just got pulled over by a police officer, in which case a warning feels really good, right? But this word warning in Hebrew doesn't really carry a positive or negative connotation. It could be either one. But what it really means is a prior warning about future danger. Being told ahead of time of some sort of dangerous thing that could happen. That is a warning, right? Being told ahead of time. So by the instructions of God, by his decrees, I, his servant, can be warned about future danger. And in the back half, in keeping his instructions, there is great reward. Why is there great reward in keeping his instructions? Because I avoid the danger that it's warning me about. Does that make sense? By obedience to the scriptures, by obedience to the Lord's decrees, I can avoid future danger. And in doing so, back half of verse 11, that's why they have reward. That's why learning the scriptures are so valuable. Is you gain the wisdom to see and be forewarned about the dangers that are coming in this life. That was the second section. The last one, 12 to 14. This is David's prayer of request and dedication to the Lord. Verse 12. But who can discern their own errors? That might be my favorite line in this whole Psalm, to be honest with you. Because the humility it has to say. To say, God, I need your instructions. Your instructions are more valuable than gold. They are sweeter than honey because they warn me about mistakes before I ever make them. Because who can find their own faults? Who can find out where they are wrong if there is not a source outside of yourself in which to measure? Now this happens a lot in our culture today. People, it's called individualism. Everybody fashions for themselves their own set of rules and laws to measure right from wrong, good from bad, just from unjust. Well, here's the problem. If Megan crafts a ruler in her heart to measure that which is right from wrong, and Miss Claudia also crafts a ruler in her heart to measure right from wrong, and Mr. John crafts a ruler in his heart to measure right from wrong, and then the three of them get into an argument about what is right and what is wrong. That's the problem with individualism. If Miss Claudia's ruler and Miss Megan's ruler and Mr. John's ruler are all different, then you can argue as passionately as you want. But the reality is you're measuring against your own personal standard, and there's no reason that Claudia has to adopt Mr. John's ruler, or that Mr. John has to adopt Miss Megan's ruler, or that Megan has to adopt Miss Claudia's ruler. The only way we can have any sort of conversation about true right and wrong is if there is an actual unchanging ruler. If there's no measurement by which everybody is measured, then, I mean, if everybody's super, nobody is. If there's no objective external standard for morality, for anything good or bad, for anything right or wrong, for anything just or unjust, if there is no singular standard by which we all live, then there in fact is no standard at all. And that's why I would submit to you the Christian worldview again, way better. We argue that there is actually objectively a moral standard of right and wrong. If you have more questions about that, let me know on your Connect card. I have a fantastic thought example for you to work with. But in 12, he says, who can discern their own errors? He's saying, the reason that scripture is valuable to me is it tells me what's right and wrong. It warns me about my future failures. It helps me to correct my internal ruler and set it to the ruler of reality. Forgive my hidden faults. How did David find his hidden faults? By measuring himself against the invisible ruler of scripture. That's how he found it. Then we get to verse 13. So the who can discern their own errors, that errors, that is his internal thought. Forgive my hidden faults. That's a prayer. That's a prayer. Lord, please forgive my faults that I haven't even found yet. Please forgive me for those things that I am doing that are against your will, that I haven't even learned to stop doing yet. Verse 13. Keep your servant, notice again, identity found in God. Keep your servant also from willful sins. Now we're making a distinction. We're making a distinction between that stuff I jacked up and did wrong that I didn't know, and the stuff that I do wrong that I totally know is wrong but I do it anyway. Right? And right now all of you are picturing that one thing in your mind that you and I both know you shouldn't be doing, that you hope nobody else knows that you're doing, but that you know is wrong. That's verse 13. Please keep your servant from willful sins. May they not rule over me. Literally, may my willful sins not have dominion in my life. I don't know if any of you have ever experienced that. I can tell you I have. And breaking a willful sinful habit will teach you how much it rules over you. For sure. And I'm not even going to pick out a specific sinful habit because all of you are thinking about different ones right now. Breaking that willful sinful habit, the reason it's hard, is because it still holds dominion in your life. That's why it's hard. If it wasn't hard, you wouldn't do it. You know why it's really, really not hard for me not to eat vegetables? Because they don't taste like brownies. If broccoli tasted like brownies, I think we would all eat more broccoli. The reason that it's hard to quit, and I'm making a joke of it because this point really can pierce you if you're not careful. The reason that it's hard for you to break that sin you struggle with, is you have given it dominion over your will. And it is directing your will instead of your will directing it. That's what he's talking about here in 13. Please keep your servant from willful sins. May they not rule over me. Then I will be blameless and innocent of great transgression. He's saying, only when I am freed from both all of my mistakes that I don't know I'm making and all of the mistakes that I willfully make, only at that point will I be innocent or will I be unblemished in your sight. You and I will never reach that stage in this life. Now that's where Christianity is going to differ from Mormonism. Mormonism is going to tell you that if you give enough money and you go to church long enough, you can actually become a perfect little god. That's not in the Bible, just so we're clear. But David is expressing this hope and this desire to make it to that point where I'm free from both my unwilled sins and my willed sins. And I would be fully unblemished in your sight. And then we get to this awesome benediction here in verse 14. May these words, meaning everything I've said, the fact that I see creation and the very warm sun that you have given us, declaring your presence as my creator, I've seen the value and the presence and the importance of your word giving me instructions, I've learned that obedience to your word saves me from future heartache. I struggle to make myself stop doing that which I, just like Paul said, I struggle to do that which I don't want to do that I knowingly do anyways. All of that, may all of those words of my mouth and this that I meditate on in my heart, may all of this be pleasing in your sight, Yahweh, my rock, literally the mountain or place of firm foundation on which I stand. So he's saying two things about Yahweh. Number one, that Yahweh is the mountain, boulder, rock face, a place of firm foundation on which I stand, and also my redeemer. It literally means my avenger. Yahweh is not only the firm foundation on which we stand. Yahweh is the one who rescues or redeems me from that which assails me. He's talking about salvation being found in God. Now, is he using Christiological salvation terms? No. But is he saying that God, through the precepts of his word and the presence in his life, is the only one that can rescue him from all of these willful things that he does wrong? Yes, he is. He's saying that there is foundational obedience, or there's blessing found in foundational obedience. He may not understand that the son of David would be born to name Jesus in a cross and a resurrection. He can't know that all those years prior to Jesus being born. But he can absolutely know that having the right relationship with the God who made the universe, who revealed himself in Scripture, gives the only solid firm foundation for life, and is the only God who died to save me. He could say that. Well, maybe not the die part. Only one who comes to avenge me. You know what he does know? He does know that Yahweh redeemed from Egypt. He knows that. That level of redemption he does know that we cried out, and when we were oppressed by these evil pagan gods that were killing our own children, that we cried out to our God, our Redeemer, and He saved us. That he does know.