We should be changing, becoming more like Christ and less like our old selves. And one of the ways that we do that as a church family is studying the Word of God together. So that's what we're going to do. We are in the middle of a series entitled Summer in the Psalms. Something I've wanted to do for a couple years and finally was able to get it onto the sermon calendar. So if you have your Bibles with you, whether they be physical or digital, just go to the middle of it and find the book of Psalms. The Psalm we will be looking at today is Psalm 3. So while you're turning to Psalm 3, let's review the big Bible story and get a picture of where we're at in the Scriptures. So here we go. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. On the earth, He planted a garden at a place called Eden. Into Eden, He planted two human beings, Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve's first two children, Arcane and... After the one died, the third one is... Seth. Very good. See, I got to switch it up. You guys get too used to the answers. Then they're kicked out of the garden. Sin enters the world. Sin runs rampant. God sends a flood and He tells a man to build a really big boat. And that man's name is... And had how many sons? Correct. That means how many humans on the ark? Correct. How long did it rain? Uh-huh. So after a year, the floodwaters recede. They leave the boat. Humanity gets a restart. And they're supposed to spread out, just like they were supposed to spread out from Eden. True or false? They spread out after the ark. False. That's right. That's right. They didn't. They tried to build the Tower of Babel. Then they scatter. Then people can continue growing, multiplying. A few generations later, we get to Genesis 12. God chooses a man from Ur of the Chaldeans and says, Listen, I'm going to be your God. You're going to be my people. I'm going to bless those who bless you. I'm going to curse those who curse you. I'm going to give you the land that I will show you. Go until I tell you stop. That man's name got changed to... Abraham. God repeats that covenant promise to not the firstborn, but secondborn of Abraham's sons. The covenant inheritor after Abraham is... And then again, God repeats the covenant promise not to the firstborn, but to the secondborn son. Isaac's covenant inheritor is... Jacob. Then Jacob has 12 sons. They sell the younger brother into slavery. Joseph's story. Epic end of the book of Genesis. All of that's the book of Genesis. Then they move into Egypt at the end of Genesis. 400 years go by. They get enslaved. God's people cry out for a deliverer. God hears them and answers their prayer by sending a man who was born and raised in Egypt, but then left Egypt and tended sheep out here in Midian for 40 years before being called by God. That man's name is... Moses. His brother's name is... Aaron. Their sister's name is... Miriam. Together, Moses and Aaron, they, through God's power, bring the 12 plagues, which leads to the Exodus story. Miriam leads the women of God in worshiping the Lord. Together, those three siblings, they all exit Egypt, and they should have gone right to the promised land. But there's a disobedience problem. How long do they wander after the Exodus? Then God clears off the top generation, which by the way, that was the generation who actually experienced the miracles in Egypt. And they did not get to move into the promised land. He raises up a new leader who actually sat at the feet of Moses for quite some time. That new leader's name is... Joshua. Joshua leads them into the promised land, but they still don't obey. Enter the judges period where everybody does what is right in their own eyes. Yep, everyone does what's right in their own eyes. And then all of a sudden, as a people, they get super jealous and like a toddler, they want something like all the other kids have. What is it that Israel asks God for? A human king. That's right. The first king of the United Monarchy of Israel is... Saul, followed by... David, followed by... Followed by... Civil War. Somebody said it. Followed by Civil War. There's only three kings of the United Monarchy of Israel and then Civil War. And then all of a sudden, the country fractures. What's the northern country called? Israel. Uh-huh. How many tribes up here? 10. Uh-huh. Which means the southern one is? Jerusalem. And all of you are good at math. How many tribes down here? Two. That's right. Then they still don't live in obedience and God says, fine. Now, listen. Now I got to give you a timeout. And God uses an external pagan nation who in 586 BC moves... Or no, 722 BC moves in and conquers the northern kingdom of Israel. That country's name is? Uh-huh. Carries away and then Assyria falls too. Uh-huh. And then Babylon comes in and defeats the southern nation of? Judah, right? And then Judah's carried off into captivity and then they fall to? Persia. And then finally Persia lets everybody go home. Right? There's a lot of history going on there. The reason I wanted to get us all the way to the exile period is so I can teach you these 4 things about the book of Psalms and you'll have a setting for it. So first, the Psalms are written by different authors over a period of a thousand years. So we're not only looking at the time of David. In fact, there's one Psalm that's written by Moses and then there's several Psalms written by other people. David, in fact, will be writing the one that we're studying today. But he didn't write all of them. Second, Psalms don't rhyme. You know why? Because they weren't written in English. Just in case anybody was curious about that. Why do we call the book of Psalms poetry when it doesn't rhyme? Because it's not written in English. However, Hebrew does use other literary devices that help us understand what the poet is trying to say. Third, Psalms can be described in four main categories. There are praises, there are songs, there are laments, and there are imprecatory Psalms. And then number four, the book of Psalms as we know it was likely compiled after the exile period. And that's why I wanted you to get all the way there, right? After the exile period, King of Persia lets everybody come home. There's your Esther, there's your Ezra, there's your Nehemiah, there's your Hezekiah. All the, you know, the stuff at the end of the Old Testament. That's when this book finally got collected. It is a collection of 150 different Psalms or ancient Hebrew lyrical poetry about God that we have in one book. In the same way as I could take, I could say a dictionary is a collection of definitions in one book. The definitions in the letter B don't necessarily have much to do with the letter S. But they're all in one book because they've been organized that way. So when we come to a Psalm, we need to look at each Psalm individually first. And then, you know, what's kind of going on with everything around it. So we're going to be looking at Psalm 3 today. Some of you are looking at it and realizing how short it is. You're like, awesome. I'm going to get to lunch on time today. So Psalm 3, here's the first thing I want you to understand. This is a Psalm of lament. This is a Psalm of lament. We are about to read King David's words as he holds on to his own faith while his heart is broken. And I don't know about you, but I kind of can feel that way at times. Yes, I have an amazing relationship with my Savior. Yes, I believe that the God who created it all died on a cross for me and I'm in dwelt with the Holy Spirit. That doesn't mean I don't experience hurt. That doesn't mean I don't experience difficulty. And I just have a problem with people that want to sell this fakey false mask wearing gospel where because I have a relationship with Jesus, my life always works out the way it's supposed to. I mean, is that... Okay, it's only me. I get it. The rest of you are perfect Christians. I feel you. But for somebody who's sitting here not willing to raise their hand, let me just take the mask off. Life is still difficult day to day because we live in a world where sin is still a reality. That's why studying Revelation was important and seeing what God's going to do at the end of days to fix what was done at the beginning of days so we can have relationship with Him without sin in the picture. But while we're in between Genesis 1 and 2 and Revelation 21 and 22, we live in a world where sin happens which means we live in a world where hurts happen. We live in a world where heartbreak happens and we need to be able to answer the question. How can you believe in a good God and experience these difficult things? That's the setting of our psalm today. Our psalm takes place right in the middle of David and heartbreak and ultimately disaster. So let me give you the outline of the psalm first. Those of you who like taking your notes, it's going to give you a kind of how we're going to go through this. So there are eight verses. Interestingly, if you are reading this in the Hebrew Bible, there would be nine verses. How many people are you looking at your Bible and it says above verse 1, a psalm of David? Right? Anybody see that? Okay. The English translators don't count that as a verse because in English, we count that as a subtitle. But in the Hebrew text, that's actually verse 1. That a psalm of David. So if you were looking at this in a Hebrew Bible, it would have one extra verse to it because what you and I interpret as a subtitle is actually part of the biblical text. Now, why is that important? Because you've heard me say time and time again, when the Bible was written, there were no chapter and verse notations. All the chapter headers that are put in your Bible aren't part of the original biblical text. They're part of the publishers editions so we can understand what's going on. But here, that rule doesn't apply. If you were to just read a psalm of David and skip over it because you think, oh, well, you know, Claudia, that's just the publisher. That's just the publisher giving me a subtitle. No, that's actually the word of God. And that's why it's super important to study these things. So I'm going to read it in an English Bible, but I do want you to understand that I can't read Hebrew. So that's why we're going to read it in English. So here's my outline. Verses, I'm going to call it verse 0 because in your Bible, it would be a 0. So verse 0, 1 and 2 define the lament. Verses 3 through 6 define what I'm calling the turn. And verses 7 and 8 define his prayer. So we have the lament. We have the turn. We have the prayer. With that understood, let's start reading in verse 0. So here it is. Verse 0, a Psalm of David when he fled from his son Absalom. There's a lot in that sentence. We'll get back to it. But that's why it's important to understand. That's part of the actual Psalm. It's not just something your publisher added in. A Psalm of David when he fled from his son Absalom. Lord, how many are my foes? How many rise up against me? Many are saying of me, God will not deliver him. But you, Lord, are a shield around me, my glory, the one who lifts my head. I call out to the Lord and he answers me from his holy mountain. I lie down and sleep. I wake again because the Lord sustains me. I will not fear though tens of thousands assail me on every side. Arise Lord, deliver me my God. Strike all my enemies on the jaw. Break the teeth of the wicked. God just got Jersey right there. And in verse 8, from the Lord comes deliverance. May your blessing be on your people. So can you hear the heartbreak where he's at? So let's rewind back to verse 0 and let me tell you why this is super important to understand that this is part of the context. This is the context of the psalm. So we're in section 1, the lament. The context is a psalm of David. Stop. Who's David? David is, we just talked about him. He's the second king of the unanimity of Israel. He's the guy who's called a man's after God's own heart. He's also the guy that killed Uriah just so he could sleep with his wife. He's also the guy that lost a child because of that sin. He's also probably the most famous king from the Old Testament. All of those things are wrapped up in who David is. David is a very, he's also the author of at least I think 37 of the Psalms in the beginning of this book. So he's a kind of complicated guy. He's not perfect. Just because he was used by God doesn't mean he also doesn't struggle with sin. Right? And at least unfortunately for David, his sin struggles are recorded for all time in Holy Writ. I don't know about you, but the Holy Spirit's not walking around documenting your sins last Tuesday so that we could study them at church. If he is, let me know. I could use more material. So when we see a Psalm of David, boom, this tells you where you are in the big Bible story. I'm during the life of David. That means we're after the Exodus. That means we're after the judges period. But since it's David, United Monarchy, not Civil War. Right? That's where we are in the big Bible story. Second, when he fled from his son, Absalom. Now, now we're quoting a super specific time in David's life. I'm not just free to pick when in David's life. The Holy Spirit saw fit to include this detail so that we could properly understand when this happens. For those of you who like your notes, the story that is the background to this Psalm, you will find it in 2 Samuel chapters 15 through 18. 2 Samuel 15 to 18. I will save you the page turn and give you the new international bill version of the story. Ready? David is king. Absalom is an arrogant young man who is the son of the king. Absalom goes out from the palace and he hitches up a really big wagon and some soldiers. And he goes out into the marketplace where people need to have their disputes adjudicated. And he goes out in the marketplace and he starts winning the hearts of the people. Well, you know, if the king had sent you a judge, we could fix this really quick. But I mean, I guess I could do it. I guess Absalom could be here for you here. Heather, tell me your troubles. Let me fix your problems. He does this for about 2 years and he wins the heart of the people. And then he goes out and the whole time. He's gathering supporters. He's basically setting up a coup. It's what we would call it today. He's setting up a coup. He goes out, he wins the hearts of the people away from David. Away from the guy who killed Goliath. Away from the guy who replaced Saul. How? He goes out by manipulating them and winning their hearts. And he gathers an entire group of soldiers quietly behind the scenes. And he said, listen, when we blow the ram's horn, everybody scream, long live Absalom the king. So he gathers supporters in all these different areas. And then the final reveal, he blows that ram's horn and 50,000 soldiers rise up against the king. And Absalom marches on David in Jerusalem. Like Caesar crossing the Rubicon. Absalom said, my throne now. They rush to David. Joab and a couple other characters, they rush to David. They tell him, Absalom's on his way with 50,000 men. We will not hold the palace. But if you want us to die here, you're the Lord's anointed. I mean, some of the people's dedication to David just, I mean, dude, it makes you want to just walk out in the park and punch somebody in the face. It was great. Woo! Right? Listen, you're the Lord's anointed. We will not hold the palace forever. But we'll take some of them with us before we die. And David says, no. It's not what, because what David is facing is a civil war. His own countrymen. Here's what I need you to understand. When we get to verse 1 and he says, how many are my foes? How many rise up against me? It is 50,000 of his own soldiers led by his son, stealing the throne given to him by God. This is not some rando outside attack, right? This is not you're walking through the Walmart parking lot and someone's persecuting you because they took your parking spot. This is hurt from within his own family. That's the deep cut, right? I realize all of you guys are perfect and your family histories are great. Nobody has ever experienced drama. But my family's not that way. My family has been filled with hurt and drama and heartache. This is David literally running for his life. If you continue reading those four chapters, he leaves the palace free. He actually, there's a random character that is inserted into this story who is a military officer from a pagan nation who is kind of serving as an emissary. And he said, listen, you're not an Israelite. They won't kill you. Go back, join them, and protect my son. That's what he says. As his son is leading the head of 50,000 men to kill him and take the throne, he sends a single soldier back and said, protect my son. Even though he's doing all of this craziness, I will run. I will not risk open war for our people and I will not fight my own son. If this is the way he wants to do it, this is how he'll do it. And all of this is in that verse zero. This is the setting for David's heartbreak that he's then going to show us how to deal with it. I can't imagine what that would feel like. The depth of betrayal when it comes from within your own house. The depth of betrayal when it comes from your own cheering, right? That's a technical term, cheering. Sadly, the story ends. David and his men run. Absalom overtakes the palace but doesn't stop. He continues chasing David. His soldiers prepare to repel borders. And then randomly, and again, we want to talk coincidence versus providence, right? God doesn't always have to do miracles in order to work. Absalom is on a mule and he's trying to attack David in a forest. Because Absalom's got the military advantage. He's got 50,000 men. If they fight in an open battlefield, they're going to lose. David has spent a lifetime being a military tactician. David sets the place of the engagement by choosing a forest. Which nullifies these massively huge numbers and gives David and his smaller group a better fighting chance. Well, Absalom is going through the forest and literally his hair gets tangled in a tree. His horse walks out from underneath of him and he is left dangling by his hair. And Joab, the guy who has stood by David's side for his entire life, Joab walks up with a spear and runs him through Sparta style while hanging from a tree. Then they go back and they tell David, the Lord has saved you. You know what his first question is? How's my son? And when they tell him that Joab killed his own son, David doesn't return to the palace. He changes into sackcloth and ashes and he mourns the loss of his son who had just tried to kill him. Like the drama in verse zero. I can't miss. Because if I were to not tell you that story and just let you pretend it was some random military engagement, you're not going to feel the way David feels. So that's the backstory in verse zero. Absalom, his son marches on him, tries to kill him. Ultimately, God does redeem David. God does save David. Ultimately, David does go move back in the palace and mourn the loss of his own son. God's protection on David cost him his child. That's the depth of heartbreak we're at. Now we get to verse one. Notice the first word in verse one. Lord, all capital letters. What does that tell you? That's the covenant name Yahweh, the covenant name for God. That means David, now does David know that God has a covenant relationship with Israel? Yes or no? Does David know that God has a covenant relationship with Israel? Yes, he does, right? Yes, he totally knows that they are God's chosen people and then he has a covenant relationship with him. He also knows that God is faithful. Like you just read a whole bunch of the Psalms. David knows about God's faithfulness. So here when he cries out, Lord, Yahweh, many are my foes. He is crying out to the covenant God of Israel that he knows is in covenant relationship with him. He is crying out within his relationship with God, not external to it. Why? Because everything that happens in his life is germane to his relationship with God. David doesn't have a compartmentalization where, well, I'm a Christian on Sundays when I go to church, but Monday through Friday at my office, I have to be not Christian. David just sees that everything that happens in his life happens within his relationship with God. So therefore, he has the right to go to God about any old mess that happens in his day. And this is a really big mess. Lord, how many are my foes? How many rise up against me? Again, his own people, his own son. Verse 2, many are saying of me, God will not deliver him. Now, David is the one in right relationship with God. And all of these other jokers are following his son, trying to usurp the throne, trying to usurp who God put on the throne. And the way they're doing it is they are claiming that God will no longer protect David. From who? From them. What they're really saying is what I want for this country, what I want is to put Absalom on the throne. And we're 50,000 strong. God himself will not stop us. I mean, that's really what they're saying. They're saying, God will no longer... God may have been with David. I can just see the stump speech, right? Absalom standing there. He's got 50,000 men. They got horses. They got spears. They got swords. And he's standing there. God may have protected David. And maybe Goliath fell to David. But not this David. Not today. We will take over. And they storm the palace. And David runs. And then he goes to God. God? And I'm going to leave this with you because this is a perspective here. David is either saying to God, God, look at the depth of their craziness. They think you're still not protecting me. Or he's saying, God, they're saying you're not protecting me anymore. And that's kind of what it looks like. God, are you still protecting me? I got to be honest. I would be over here. Right? I'd be reading the situation going, you know? I would be, God, I trust you. But that's really close. That hurts a lot. I don't know if you've ever had to trust God in the midst of depth and pain. But it's challenging. Right? It's challenging to calm your heart. To calm that hurt. To not want to react out of hurt. But still contain yourself and say, God is faithful whether I'm comfortable or not. Right? God is faithful whether I'm happy or not. God is faithful whether I'm sick or healed. God is faithful whether I'm joyful or depressed. That's a lesson, man. Holding on to yourself. So, that's the context and the lament. The cause of the lament is his son's coming up against him. Then we reach verse 2, no, verse 3. And this is what David does in the midst of his heartache. And here's what I call the turn. Here's where we need to learn from David. Verse 3. But. I've done explaining. God, this is happening. God, this sucks. God, this is what they're saying. This is what I'm seeing. I'm scared. I'm on the run. But God. Uh-huh. Right? Anybody who's ever had to live in that moment, you got to grab yourself with every bit of your fingernails and say, but God. Maybe the 2 most powerful words you could say. But you Lord are a shield around me. What is the shield? The shield is literally his protection. There are 50,000 men in my own son hunting me like a dog. But God. Those 50,000 men aren't bigger than my one king. But you, notice Lord again, covenant name. But you Yahweh are a shield around me. He's reaching back to those covenant promises, right? What was the covenant promise made in Leviticus repeated in Deuteronomy? If you live according to my ways, you will be blessed. If you don't, you will get spanked. That's a new international bill version. That was like abbreviation of what God said. David knows that he has been living rightly. And so he reaches back to that promise. He calls on God. He said you are a shield around me. That's his ultimate refuge and safety. Then the second thing, you are my glory. David has already walked away from the palace. But he sees that the glory of his life isn't in his throne. It's in his king. Right? David is literally the highest ranking person in his entire country. And he said, but this is not what brings my life value and purpose. You are what give my life value and purpose. Even out here in the forest, why I'm hiding from my life. God, you are my source of honor and importance. And the third one, you lift my head. You are the source of my restoration. That, like that in and of itself, apparently the 3 of us are the only ones who have lived through this. Everybody else is just looking at me and y'all like, yeah, preacher been there. It's a Tuesday in my world. I mean, that's why this is the turn. David's not lying or being dishonest about the heartache. He's not lying or being dishonest about the situation or about the context. But at a certain point, he moves his focus off of himself and off of this horrible situation. And he puts his focus on his covenant promise making God. And then if he focuses on that, all of a sudden this starts to be a little less scary. It starts to be a little less challenging. I'm not going to say it's any less hurtful because pain is pain, bro. If you've ever experienced hurt, whether it was in your family, whether it was in the church, listen though, deepest wounds my family have come from church. Absolutely. Wouldn't even pretend to say otherwise. I can also tell you that over the past, what, 8 months, 9 months, a lot of the families that have started attending our church have experienced similar things, have experienced hurt because of another body and they just need somewhere to be where it's okay to be safe and not get hurt, where it's okay to heal and restore. And that's kind of what we've become as a church. We've become a place where it's okay to heal and not get challenged and not get pushed and not get hurt anymore. You know, that's a real thing because when you're in the midst of all that pain and when you're in the midst of all that hurt, it monopolizes your focus. You can't look beyond it. You can't look past it. You close your eyes and the images are still burned on the inside of your eyelids because those images are coming from your heart, not from your head. That pain overtakes your focus and you have to physically get a hold of yourself and turn and say, but you Lord, you are my ultimate refuge and safety. You are the source of my honor and importance and ultimately God, you are the source of my restoration. Then verse 4, because of verse 3, because David changes his focus, verse 4, I call out to Yahweh, the covenant God, right? This whole conversation is happening between God and the Lord that he is in covenant relationship with. I call out to the Lord and he answers me from his holy mountain. Now, holy mountain there is an exaggeration of he's calling out to me from his high place of authority. When I speak to God, I am speaking to the cosmic throne room. I'm not just speaking to telemarketing, right? I'm not just calling like my spiritual tech support. Sometimes people pray only when they have problems. That's like calling in for tech support. No, I'm calling the guy in charge of everything and when I call, he answers me. David knows that God is not silent in his relationship and that God responds from his sovereignty. Verse 5, now notice again, just notice real quick, verse 3, the focus is but you, meaning focuses on God. Verse 4, I, verse 5, I, verse 6, I. One focus on God and 3 different responses from David. So the first one is, God, I know when I pray you hear me and you'll answer me. Verse 5, I lie down and sleep, I wake again because the Lord sustains me. That's a really poetic way of saying whatever happens in my life happens because you allow it. Does anybody ever wanted to get on the email list from God so you could find out what's going to happen next week? Right? Sometimes like life happens and things go wrong and I have to get a hold of myself and I have to go, well, God is not surprised but I am. Is that ever happened to anybody? God's not, did God know that thing was about to go wrong in my life yesterday? Yeah. Did I know when I woke up that it was going to go wrong? No. But it happened in my life because God saw it and God said, I'm still here for you. I can sustain you. I can support you. So verse 5 is really David saying and sometimes you have to say it to yourself. When you're in the midst of all that pain, you're in the midst of all that heartache. Sometimes you got to preach at yourself and you got to be like, I know when I pray God hears me and he will answer. I know that whether I'm asleep or I'm awake or whether it's good or whether it's bad that God will sustain me. It's almost like he's having to restart, right? He's having to re-kick in that faith muscle because so much has been myopically brought down by the pain. And he's having to restart that engine. He says, no, I know when I pray God hears me and he listens. Verse 5, I know whatever happens in my life, God sustains me. And then verse 6, because I know, I pray and he answer and because everything happens in my life because he allows it. Verse 6, I will not fear though tens of thousands assail me. And he is writing this in the moment when literally they are coming through Sherwood Forest to kill Robin Hood. Sorry, as soon as I saw David choosing to fight in the forest, I was like, what if David had a bow and arrow? Could he be Robin Hood? Could he just be? That'd be great. That's also how I remember stories. I make up little fun details that are like look funny to me. Like David up in a tree in a green arrow suit. See? And now you're never going to forget Absalom's story with David. You're welcome. Verse 6, though tens of thousands assail me on every side, I will not fear. Why? Because I know when I pray God hears me and I know if I've experienced it, he's allowed it. And that's enough. This one God is greater than the tens of thousands who are coming to kill me. The change of focus. Notice this though. The change of focus did not change the situation, right? He's still in the forest. His son still trying to kill him. There's an army of people behind Absalom willing to do it. The situation didn't change. What changed? David's focus in the midst of the situation. That's what David is in control of. David is not in control of Absalom and the army that's coming. David is ultimately not in control of the people who are defending him because if Joab had asked him, do I want you to kill me? Do you want me to kill your kid? He would have immediately said no. Because if you read the whole chapter, there's somebody else who found Absalom in the tree first. And he said there's no way I'm killing this guy. That's the son of the king. I don't even care if he's out of line. That is the son of the Lord's anointed. And Joab's like, I'll do it. David did not change a single thing about the storm of circumstances that are surrounding him. But through this one lament, through this one change of focus, reminding himself of how great God is despite what is in front of him, that gets him to verse 6. I will not fear, though tens of thousands assail me. Literally that word assail means set up. I am surrounded by my own familial enemies. I am surrounded on all sides. They have set up a camp around me to exterminate me. There is no way out. The fight is coming. I will not be afraid because the Lord hears me in my prayers and he's with me in my life. And then we finally get to verse 7 and 8. Verse 7 is David's request for deliverance. This is where David says, Lord, deliver me. And he says it in the coolest way. Verse 7, arise, Yahweh. You see it again? Again, the conversation happens within the context of his covenant relationship with God. Deliver me, my God. Strike all my enemies on the jaw. Break the teeth of the wicked. This is a manly verse right here. Jack them in the face, Jesus. I don't listen. I don't know if you've ever had to pray that prayer before. If you haven't, trust me. It feels good. Sometimes I'm like, Lord, I remember one specific time. I'm not going to tell you who it was or the context, but I do remember one time in my life praying, Lord, please hurt them, but not permanently. Lord, can you please hurt this person enough that they change their ways, but hopefully not enough that they have to draw a disability for the rest of their life? But that's, hey, God, that's you. I mean, if you need to break a jaw and smash some teeth, you're the God of God's. You can do it. And I think part of this is you have to remember David is a poet, but David is a warrior. Right? David is a king, but David is a killer. Don't mistake one part of his character. He's an adulterer who also writes worship music. He's like I said in the beginning, he's a complex dude. He says, arise, Yahweh, my covenant God. Deliver me. Literally, help me. Because at this point, there's nothing I can do to change this situation. They have surrounded me. They are besetting me. If you do not do something, when I lie down tonight, I don't get up. God, deliver me. Rescue me. Save me. And God, this is how I would like. Strike all my enemies on the jaw and break the teeth of the wicked. Notice they're basically the same statement. When you hit someone hard enough in the face that you break their jaw, you're probably going to break a tooth. So strike the enemies on the jaw. Break the teeth of the wicked. There's parallelism there. What is the parallelism? God, bring your righteous vengeance to defend me because I've done nothing wrong. And this is where we've got to look into that whole idea of vengeance is mine, sayeth the Lord. David knows he's in the right, but notice he doesn't fight for it. That's hard, right? When you know you're in the right and you know somebody is flat out wrong to hold your tongue and say, how about we just let God deal with it between you and me? Because if I deal with it, the right hand of fellowship comes right after the left foot. That was not the amen moment just in case you missed it, right? The intentionally choosing church violence, that is not a good idea. That was not approved by the eldership. Let's not do that. That's his prayer. God, rescue me, save me, be violent if necessary. And then ultimately here, verse 8, from Yahweh, there it is again, from the Lord comes deliverance. This is David relinquishing responsibility to save himself. He's in the forest. They're coming. There's no way out. God, you could save me if you want to. You could rescue me from this. But either way, from the Lord comes my deliverance. Unlike the David and Goliath story, Goliath had already set himself up against God. He had insulted the God of Israel and David was like, who are you in comparison to my God? In this instance, David doesn't gear up and go, well, I mean, okay, if you want an Alamo situation, I guess let's grab a couple extra mags. Let's go. You know, he doesn't. He just says, from the Lord comes deliverance. May your blessing be on your people. This is the sign off moment. God, if you don't save me, you're still good. If you don't rescue me in this situation, you are still gracious. You are still king. You are still the covenant God of Israel. That's a really big perspective that we as individual Christians, especially in an individual, individualistic nation like America where we see everything through the interpretation of ourselves and not the corporate audience that we're a part of. God, you don't have to rescue me to be good. You already are good. In your goodness, please rescue me. But may your blessing be on your people, whether you do or not. I mean, woo, right? And if you didn't know the story, if I didn't first tell you about Absalom and the coup and everything else, that just sounds poetic. But in context, I mean, that is the bravery. That is the warrior that says, listen, God, you're good whether I make it through this or not. So I trust in your goodness. Because if I don't make it through it, I'm going to be with you and that's good. And if I do make it through it, I'm going to celebrate your goodness and that's good. So either way, I celebrate your goodness. And the goodness of God is not based on the outcome of his problems. The goodness of God is based on God's character, on who God is, not what God does.