Well good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. I am privileged to be the pastor and primary speaker and for any of you who are here in the Wilmington campus and you weren't watching online, you saw me kind of hobble up here. I took my children to the shore yesterday. I also learned that when you go to New Jersey it's not the beach, it's the shore. So thank you for all of you natives who teach me how to speak the English correctly. But I took my children to the shore yesterday and while I was in the water I somehow got taken off my feet and I jammed my foot into my wife's calf and it my toe came out of the water in a direction in which toes don't normally face. So not much you can do for a sprained toe. Drink water, drive on, rub some dirt on it, walk it off, take some ibuprofen and go to church. That's what we're going to do. So we are going to be concluding our James study this morning. So if you brought your Bibles I want to invite you to turn or tap with me to the book of James. We have been studying our way through this book. As you're turning there, let me go ahead and give you the key thought. From trials and temptation to self control and suffering, the book of James addresses faith as it is lived out day to day in the real world. That's kind of my summation statement for what the book of James is all about. Now if you happen to have your phone and you have the catalyst app even if you're joining us online, if you happen to be watching on a tv or a computer or something other than your phone, I'd like to invite you to open the catalyst app. You'll see a blue graphic with a white book that says sermon notes on it. If you just tap on that graphic it is going to head and open up some interactive sermon notes that I have built for you that you can follow along, fill in the blanks, and then when you get to the bottom of these notes there is a button that you can email it directly to yourself. I've had several people week to week ask me, Pastor can I have a copy of the sermon notes? Now you can not only have a copy but you can have a copy of my notes plus your notes. So I encourage you to use that tool, jot down the things that you think. You know if you're trying to decide where to go for lunch you could add that under point two. That's okay. You can email it to yourself and remember. But I want to invite you to follow along and you'll see the key thought was right there at the very top. The next thing I want to establish about the book of James is the audience. We have to remember that when we read the books of scripture they are written for us but they were not written to us. We are not the first audience to read this text in as much as if I wrote a text to my daughter and then her friend were to read it. You're not justified in automatically taking that text and having my friend's daughter read it as if I was saying it directly to her. Now maybe I shared a piece of wisdom that was good, generally not, but did that you could learn from it. But we need to be honest about who the audience of scripture is. So let's just briefly review for the last time who is or no the audience of the book of James is, here it is, faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. The audience is faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. And just a brief overview of the author. Again if you want a deeper dive you could go back to message one of this series where I did a little bit of a deeper dive on the author. But I believe the most likely candidate for the author of the book of James is James the half brother of Jesus. That this book was written between AD 35 and AD 45 which makes it the very first of the New Testament writings to be penned. And James is writing too faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. So now what I'd like to do is read James chapter 5 verse 13 to verse 20. So we'll read 5 13 to 20 and then we're going to go back and we're going to dig into those verses and go a little deeper into what it says. So here we go James chapter 5 starting in verse 13. Is anyone among you in trouble? Let them pray. Is anyone happy? Let them sing songs of praise. Is anyone among you sick? Let them call the elders of the church to pray over them and anoint them with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well. The Lord will raise them up. If they have sinned they will be forgiven. Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective. Elijah was a human being even as we are. He prayed earnestly that it would not rain and it did not rain on the land for three and a half years. And again he prayed and the heavens gave rain and the earth produced its crops. My brothers and sisters if one of you should wander from the truth and someone should bring that person back remember this. Whoever turns a sinner from the error of their way will save them from death and cover over a multitude of sins. So let's rewind back to verse 13. There is another one of these super fun you get to choose your own adventure style verses in this passage. So let's start at verse 13. Is anyone among you in trouble? Now remember when I told you that when the Bible is written there were no chapters there were no verses. So there is no clear thematic break from what we studied last week or the week before to this section. Is anyone among you in trouble? Let them pray. So the word in trouble there literally means is anyone among you suffering hardship or mistreatment? Well that makes a lot of sense with everything else we've seen James talking about. He talked about the mistreatment done by the wealthy and we looked at whether those believers were wealthy believers or they are wealthy pre-christians. We can have that discussion but what was not up for debate was that in James's day in the first century the wealthy were mistreating and creating hardship for those who did not have wealth. And so when you get to verse 13 is anyone among you in trouble? I think the clear context would be is anyone among you in that group that's being mistreated in that group that's experiencing hardship or are you experiencing hardship from another cause? And then he says a simple sentence let them pray. James's clear response to experiencing hardship as a believer is prayer. It is not fight back. Jersey Bill struggles with James's verse because when I experience hardship I want to fight back. When I experience mistreatment I want to fight back. When I witness injustice maybe it's not even when I experience it myself. When I see injustice occurring and someone else is receiving the hardship and the injustice I want to fight back. That's my natural inclination. I dislike it. James's word here is anyone among you and I'll just substitute suffering hardship or mistreatment. That was that word in trouble means. Let them pray. Now also keep in mind the previous section where he talked about don't make oaths right? We talked about the fact that that's not cussing or cursing in our native language. It's more if anyone don't make an oath when you're experiencing hardship. That is also a part of this. That's that context. My wife has this amazing saying and now she's looking at me going oh my god what is he about to say? So Melanie very early on in our marriage used to say all the time people are like bugs. You don't know what's inside of them until they're squished. Now don't feel bad for her. She grew up in southern Louisiana where bugs are basically the state bird but the purpose of what my wife was communicating is anybody can hold it together. Anybody can put on the facade when things are going well right? Everybody has the church face perfect Christian on when your life is going well. It's not until you're squished. It's not until you're under stress. It's not until it costs you something to hold it all together that you really get to see a person's character. I would often say it's not until integrity costs you something that you know how much your integrity is worth. It's easy to have integrity when it's free. It's harder to have integrity when it costs money. It's harder to have integrity when it costs your pride. When it costs effort right? I don't mean cost only in the financial sense. So here James is saying when you are experiencing hardship, when you are experiencing mistreatment, don't grumble. Don't make oaths. Don't do all those other things he talked about. Just turn to prayer. That's the first half of verse 13 but then he says it another way in the second half. Is anyone happy? Literally is anyone encouraged? So the first half of the sentence is anyone experiencing mistreatment? The second half or the second sentence half of the verse is anyone feeling encouraged? Let them sing songs of praise. Literally the term there means let them make music with their voice. I think what's interesting if you just take 13 as an encapsulated fortune cookie style teaching, it doesn't matter if your life is going good or going bad. You should be talking to God about it. That's kind of what 13 is saying. If you're experiencing hardship, you need to go to him in prayer. If you're experiencing encouragement, you should be thanking him and praising him. And sometimes that's hard. Sometimes you can experience hardship and be thankful at the same time. When somebody's on the interstate and they don't know how to use the turn signal and they pull right in front of you and you immediately have to press the pedal that slows down the car right? Is anyone in that moment going thank you Lord for brakes that work? Thank you Lord for a car that gets me to work. Thank you Lord for the job that got me the car that gets me to work. No, I think our normal natural reaction, right? Somebody cuts you off in traffic. It's not normally a moment for praise. It's not normally among dear Jesus. I thank you for this wonderful opportunity to practice patience and help my earthly man obey your spirit. But it could be and for some of us maybe it should be, and for some of us maybe it should be. So in verse 13, whether you're in trouble, hardship or your encouragement, the encouragement that James gives all believers is to go to God. Now let's jump into verse 14. Is anyone among you sick? Stop. Is anyone among you sick? Let me ask you a question. Who is the among you talking to? What is the audience of the book of James? Christians. Faithful believers scattered in pagan lands. So when this verse starts out, is anyone among you, the plural, the group that is you, the plural, are Christians? Yes, we agree. So the application for us today is Christians today. We agree. All right, I just need to make sure we're clear about who you is before I get to what the word sick. So is anyone among you sick? The word sick in Greek is astheno and it is literally, is anyone among you weak? Now that word weak can be interpreted two different ways in first century Greek. The word weak is literally the opposite of strong or strengthened and it can refer to physical weakness. Anybody when you're sick you feel weak, right? Right? You feel down. Feel like you need some soup and some socks and some Netflix nap time. Yeah, right? So when you're when you are sick physically, you feel physically weak. However, that is not the only use of that word. It also refers to spiritually weak or weary. Has anybody ever felt weak because they were spiritually weak, right? You don't necessarily have to raise your hand. I'm not looking for votes. But what I need you to understand is if I did not focus in on what this actual Greek word is, there are two different interpretations of this verse depending on what you think he's asking about sick. So let's take them both. In view A, so is anyone among you physically weak, physically sick? Let them call the elders of the church and pray over them and anoint them with oil in the name of the Lord. So view A is a physically weak believer should call for the elders of the church to pray for them. Now view B, that word sick doesn't mean physically weak. It means spiritually weak, means worn down, means weary, means tired. Is anyone among you spiritually weak? You should call for the elders of the church to pray for them. So do you notice the response is the same? If you are physically weak, you should call for the elders of the church to pray for you. If you are spiritually weak, you should call for the elders of the church to pray for you. So the solution is the same, but the symptom is different. And here's why this is important. Let me take verse 15 and I'm going to tie them together. So Eric, let's show 15 for a second. And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well. Stop. The word sick in verse 15 is not the same Greek word as the word sick in verse 14. The problem is, is in English we can't see it. So in verse 15, the prayer offered in faith will make the sick. This word sick is not astheno and does not in any way refer to physical illness. It is literally weary. Are you weary? Are you discouraged or weary in the soul? Is the word in 15. So what I can tell you is the word in 14, is anyone among you sick? Could be physically sick or could be spiritually sick. But in verse 15, it cannot mean physically sick because it's literally the word discouraged or weary, which if you rewind to verse 13 matches, is any one of you in trouble, suffering hardship or mistreatment? So here's what I'm going to say. If I'm taking 13 and 14 and 15, all is one piece because they were written at the same time by the same author to the same individual. Does it make more sense that in verse 13, he refers to suffering of hardship and mistreatment? Then in verse 14, he refers to those who are physically sick. And then in verse 15, he refers to those who are weary or discouraged. Or does it make more sense that the verse 14 isn't referring to physical sickness? It's referring to weariness of spiritual tiredness, which matches with the verse before it, mistreatment and hardship, and it matches the verse after it. That's a completely different word for sick. Here's why I need you to see all of that because there are people within Christendom. And I would say I largely, if you had asked me to pin down the usage of the word sick in 14 and 15 before I did this study and I deep dove each of these words, I would likely have told you that it is important for the elders of the church to pray for those who are sick because the Bible promises that any person who's prayed for it will be well. The problem is, and I'm gonna get really personal for a minute, the problem is is I have personally lived through experiences when there were large groups of believers praying for people that I love and I care for and they did not get well. And that started with my mother when I was a child. My church would pray every single Sunday for like six straight weeks for my mother to be healed. And she was, I would submit to you now that I have a much deeper understanding of Christian theology, she was healed by being separated from illness, right? But she wasn't healed in the way that as a nine-year-old child I was taught to expect healing. I was taught to expect that my mother was just going to get up from the hospital bed, walk out of the hospital bed, and then walk out of the cancer ward and go play with me at the park. That's what I was taught to believe because this verse was taught to me that we are promised physical healing every time we pray. Here's my problem. My life experience tells me that that's not true. So now I've got to choose, is my life experience false? Is the word of God false? Or is the reason that I cannot properly interpret the word of God is that I am not fully understanding it in its original language? To me the latter application makes the most sense. And there are those within certain movements within Christianity who will say no. Verse 14 says, if anyone is among you sick, let them call these elders of the church to pray over them and anoint them with oil in the name of the Lord. Verse 15, and the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well. And if you didn't know that those two words sick aren't the same word, if you didn't know that that's not actually what James said to the first century church in AD 40, we could mistakenly make promises that the Lord never intended to deliver. And people get hurt. I was hurt for years over this verse. Even as a pastor, let's get really personal because I'm in a chair so I got nowhere to go. Nope. Even as a pastor, for years I struggled to pray for people to be healed when they were sick because my mother was never healed when I was a kid. Right Rob? Come on. This is blue jeans, rubber meets the road. If you're not going to walk the talk, go away. This is hard. So I cannot sit up here and be responsible, right? Because we already talked about those who teach the word are judged to a higher standard. We learned that like in an earlier chapter. So I cannot sit up here and stand behind those who would be in the camp that 14 and 15 must be read together, that sick must only be interpreted as physical sickness and that we are promised that every time the elders of the church lay hands on those who are physically sick, they will automatically be physically healed. Because that is not what these verses say in their original language. And if you've been taught that, if you've been told that, if you were sold that and you were hurt, then on behalf of every single Bible teacher from James to today, I ask your forgiveness. Because I didn't know until this week when I deep dove these two words in their context with their language that James isn't even using the same words. So let me read you. Eric, I'm going to go back and I'm going to read 13, 14, and 15 together. But I'm going to change the word sick out for the word weak in one verse and the word weary in the next verse. Because that's what they mean. And we'll get away from our English word sick. And now I want you to hear it. Here's 13. Is anyone among you in trouble? Let them pray. Is anyone happy? Let them sing songs of praise. Is anyone among you weak? Let them call the elders of the church to pray over them and anoint them with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer offered in faith will make the weary person well. The Lord will raise them up. If they have sinned, they will be forgiven. Isn't it amazing how different that hits when you swap out one English word for another word that is textually accurate to the word that James used? Now when I read it that way, Jim, we don't come across like the elders of the church. Because then when the elders, here's the thing. When the elders of the church pray for someone which is absolutely scriptural and we should do it and we should anoint people because James said we can. I'm not backing down from that. What I'm backing down from is that when we pray for someone, because let's be honest, you can be physically sick and spiritually weary, right? You can totally be physically sick and spiritually weary. James is promising that the prayer of the elders of the church and the anointing will lift up and encourage the spiritual weariness, not automatically heal the physical sickness. You can be physically sick and get unweary and praise Jesus while you're physically sick. You can be physically, like I'm sitting up here right now, my foot is just not having it. My foot is not on Jesus. The rest of me is on God. You can be physically sick and spiritually weary and you can be physically sick and spiritually praising. And I know that. I've sat in those moments with people and praise Jesus through lots of spiritual weariness. So I just, as I was preparing for this sermon, I was like, Jesus, I gotta say some stuff here. Because I cannot let you walk away from this verse and this moment with the mistaken impression that James is promising physical healing every single time the elders pray. You know what he is directing? He is directing the elders of the church to pray over everyone. And I would submit physically or spiritually weary. I'm okay with that because that's both definitions of the word. But the promise in verse 15 is when we as the elders pray over you, whether you are physically healed or not, you are spiritually restored and lifted up. Look at the rest of verse 15, right? That's worth it. It's good stuff. What does he say here? The Lord will raise them up. Will make the weary person, and the context in verse 15, make the weary person well. It's to make them safe, right? Safety is what gets rid of our weariness. Think about a sheep when it's by its shepherd. It's not weary. Why? Because it's safe. The Lord will raise them up. And then we get an interesting one. If they have sinned, they will be forgiven. Keep in mind who's the audience. James is speaking to first century Christians. He's not speaking to pre-Christians. He's speaking to people who are already members of the body of Christ. I would submit to you in context, maybe the reason that this person is spiritually weary that James is speaking about hypothetically, you're spiritually weary because you're coming to church but still living in sin. That creates spiritual weariness, right? When you try to live on both sides of the fence, you try to live one way outside of church and another way inside of church, that does create spiritual weariness and it's exactly where he's at. The idea that Christians don't sin is false. Any right? Like half of you are looking to be like, is he gonna say my name right now? No. No, but we have to be honest. We have to be truthful about the life that we as believers live. We live life in a corrupt sinful world redeemed by an amazing savior but we still live and struggle with sin because it is resident within our bodies. We were born into sinful bodies. We were born into a corrupt and sinful world. That doesn't mean we're not redeemed and loved and saved by God. It just means that his love reached into a corrupted world. That his redemption redeemed me in my corrupted body and when I get my new glorified 100 beach ready strong toes body, then I will be free from the sickness in this life. Then I will be free from the spiritual weariness of wanting to live for Jesus but stumbling over myself. I'm not going to point out anybody else but you know you if you know what that feels like. Wanting to live for Jesus but man stuck stumbling over my own mess, stumbling over my own self. That kind of spiritual weariness is also something we as elders of the church are directed to pray over. We are directed to anoint you. The anointing, listen, this is not Harry Potter. The oil is not a magical serum. The oil has always been a symbol of the anointing and the care of God. Shepherds would anoint sheep's heads. You know why? To stop blowflies from laying eggs in their ears. That's literally what it is. Now I extrapolate that out from the natural into the spiritual. Being anointed by God stops the enemy from planting the seeds that grow into sin in your life. That's what that is. That's why we anoint. That's why it's important and I know if you like me you grew up Baptist and then you didn't spend a decade in the Pentecostal church. You probably have never seen someone pull out anointing oil and anoint someone. It is a beautifully intimate thing that we should do more often. Is my bottle still here Mel? I know it's here somewhere but yeah I mean we'll go downstairs. We'll get the olive oil out the kitchen girl. Like makes popcorn and services. I have a bottle of anointing oil that I keep here at the church and it's nothing more than scented olive oil. It's olive oil with a beautiful scent to it. The scent is there to remind you your your senses that you've been anointed by God. That's what it's there for. So I don't want to belabor this point but I want to point out that we as the body of Christ should be praying over you and anointing you if you're spiritually weary and if you're spiritually weary today I will pray over you before you leave. Jim's here. He looks good. He's an elder. Exactly. Jim we'll go get some oil. Listen you cannot leave the church spiritually weary. You shouldn't leave the church spiritually weary. That's what we're here to do. All right that was that point. I'm going to stop beating the horse. Let's go to 16. Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective. Let's take the two halves here. Number one the audience is believers not pre-christians. So we are absolutely encouraged to confess our sins to one another. Notice this did not say find your brother and corner them until they talk. You know what Jim that's not what it said. It says confess your sins to each other. That means it's voluntary. That means you go to a believer that you have a relationship with who you trust that you're willing to be vulnerable with and you say man my life is struggling with fill in the blank. Pray for each other right. Same solution as verse 13. Is anyone of among you suffering experiencing hardship? Pray here confess your sins to each other. Pray for each other. Why? So that you will be healed restored made safe. Why? Because you're confessing your sin. Let's just play it out. I go to my brother Jerry and I say yo Jerry I have been struggling with ABC sin issue. He's going to then pray for me to get out of that struggle but then it doesn't end there. Jerry cares about me and my family. He's going to check up on me. He's going to send me a text. He's going to randomly phone call me. He's going to show up early at church or whatever. He's like yo how you doing with that thing? That's what believers are supposed to do. If you don't have a friend who will call you out on your sin you don't have a true friend. Right you don't have a friend who's going to ding you. I have two friends in my life. Two people who love me enough that they have open access to ask me any question about any area of my life. There are zero secrets from these two men and they can call me at a moment's notice without hesitation. If Melanie had to call them first you know it's a really bad day but you have to have a friend like that. You have to have a friend because if not then how are you supposed to follow this verse? How are you supposed to go hey Rob confess your sins to each other and pray for you? How are you supposed to go hey Pete confess your sins to each other? If you don't have that friend go get one. If you need one let me know on your connect card. We will find you one. Why? Because the prayer of the righteous person is powerful and effective. Here's what's interesting. I think in English when we read this verse verse 16 the prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective. Do you assume that the righteous person is the person to whom the sins are being confessed? Right is Jerry the righteous person that I confess my sins to or am I the righteous person who knows I need to confess my sins to my brother. It's not super clear which one is the righteous person but it is super clear as they're praying together over you getting over that sin issue. Verse 17 now we have an example Elijah was a human being even as we are pause. Who's James's audience? First century Jewish Christians. Christians. First century Jewish Christians written in about AD 40. They would have known who Elijah is. Elijah is a massive hero in the Old Testament. They would have known he was a prophet but more than that they would have known when he was a prophet and that's what you need to understand. The entire story of Elijah takes place during a time when the kingdom of Israel is wayward. They are sinning. They are not following God and Elijah is trying to call them back to God. Given the context of the previous verse in my example with me and Jerry I'm the sinner and I'm going to Jerry and Jerry would be Elijah trying to call me back or bring me back to righteousness. So Elijah is being used as an example as an analogy of the Christian or the church leader who's praying to heal and call back or redeem or return the weary believer. He prayed earnestly that it would not rain and it did not rain on the land for three and a half years. Verse 18 and again he prayed and the heavens gave up rain and the earth produced its crops. Both examples are examples of Elijah using prayer to call back a wayward godly people. It's not an example that you could just pray for whatever you want. Jesus is not the Aladdin genie in the lamp right. You should not be going never had a friend like me right. That's not who Jesus is. Trust me you've never had a friend like Jesus but he doesn't poop out of a lamp and just grant your wishes. The prayer that's powerful and effective is the prayer that redeems the believer back to righteousness. The wayward believer that's struggling in sin brought back to righteousness. Now I just realized the entire time I was saying all of that I don't know that I actually gave you the A blank. The believers response I did okay the believers response to hardship should be prayer. So I apologize if I didn't give you those are filling into blanks. A believer's response to hardship is prayer. I got so super excited about the divergent views there that I forgot to give you your fill in. Eric while we're there let's go down to a letter B. Let's do fill in B. Believers should call each other back to godliness. Believers should call each other back to godliness. Now we look at our last two verses here. My brothers and sisters notice again the audience repeated Adelphoi. That's the the plural of Adelphos meaning anyone who believes in Jesus. Believers my brothers and sisters if one of you should wander from the truth pause let's just stop for a minute there. If the truth is a location and you wander away from the truth what are you wandering towards? What's the opposite of truth? Lies, falsity, untruth, falsehood, any of those things would work. But there's one truth as you maneuver away if you navigate away from true it doesn't really matter what direction you're going in. You're moving towards falsehood. You're moving towards lies. You're moving towards non-reliable truth. So if one of you should wander from the truth that means you are walking away from the truth. You are walking towards falsehood. You are walking towards lies or by definition anything that's false. Someone should bring that person back. Well who's the someone? Well in this verse both the wandering sheep and the person who brings them back are both believers. How do I know that? Because my brothers and sisters the beginning of the verse Adelphoi. Believers if you see another believer who is wandering from the truth someone should bring that person back. Here's the new international bill version. Christians don't let other Christians wander from Christ or get lost in sin. That doesn't sound difficult. You know why you know why we make it difficult? Because in our culture we don't like to challenge people. Oh it's not my business. You know Robbie knows better. He'll come around eventually. I shouldn't challenge him. The whole time Hannah's quietly praying that God sends someone to speak to her husband. And I didn't because I was what afraid? I was afraid that Rob won't be my friend anymore. Listen if you have a friend who comes to you concerned about your spiritual health that's a real friend. That's somebody who wasn't afraid to offend you to find out the truth of what's going on in your life. That's a real friend. You don't turn your back on that person. You turn into that person. Man I am really struggling. I'm surprised you noticed. Can we talk? Right? Some of you've been around you've had those kinds of conversations. Those are the ones that are good for your heart and those are the ones that are good for your faith. So Adelphoi meaning all of you believers. If one of you meaning any believer should wander from the truth someone meaning any other believer should bring that person back. If you were looking for permission to call wayward believers you just got it. In fact you were instructed to do it. The problem is you got to know somebody well enough. So let's talk reality for a second. How do I know when I can talk to a friend about what's going on in their spiritual life? If you don't ever have spiritual conversations with them until you decide to correct them it's going to be received like judgment not concern. Right? Any of you have ever felt that? I've felt that somebody thinks they're holier than you and they walk up to you and you're like man Pete listen you know I've been talking with the Holy Spirit and he's told me what's going on in your life and man we just need to talk. If that's the first time you have a spiritual conversation with that friend please just be quiet. You're not the person. But if you regularly cultivate relationships with other believers where you talk about spiritual things and when you talk about godly things and now this time Pete and I have already been out to lunch. We were five guys last month and we had burgers we had shakes right? They were good weren't they? We need some more five guys. And then into this relationship where there's already spiritual conversations happening. There's already Jesus in the midst of our brotherly relationship. Then I bring it up. Hey Pete I noticed this thing. Are you struggling in this area? Like how can I pray for you? How can now all of a sudden that hits different. That's received differently because now interjecting spirituality into our friendship is not done under the guise of let me help you. It's done under the guise of bro I'm in this trench with you let's do it together. That's the backbone here that I want you to hear from verse 19. Every one of you should be prepared and able to call a wayward believer back. But you should also calculate the strategy. Is this person going to hear my concern or are they going to only hear the judgment? And I'll be honest I've had these kinds of conversations where they went well. Yeah I told you about my friend who we and he and I had a pickup truck level conversation. So it's like I don't like the way you talk to your wife and I don't want my kids to be around you because I don't want they seeing you the way you treat your wife because if you treat her that way in public you surely do worse in private. So we're going to have to change the way we talk to each other. That conversation went really well. I've also had conversations where I'm like hey man I see the way you look at other women when we're walking down through the mall. Do you have a porn problem that we need to talk about? That conversation didn't go well and that person was a friend of mine. Still is a friend of mine to this day but wasn't ready to be spiritually accountable to his friend. Okay I can't look at you and know whether you're going to be spiritually accountable or not but Rob I can tell you this I love you enough to follow that verse and find out. You know find out are my spiritual friends ready to be challenged spiritually or oops you're not. Okay you may lose a friend over it. Are you willing to lose a friend to save a soul? Are you willing to lose a friend to save a fellow believer? Yeah I think we should be. And then we get to verse 20. Remember this. This is on the back of 19. Whoever turns a sinner from the error of their way will save them from death.