The Origin of the Universe
from
The origin of the universe is one of the places the fields of science, philosophy, and religion
intersect. Because of this, it can be a powerful way to provide evidence for God. However, the
origin the Bible offers and the story evolution describes are not compatible. Here is a basic
introduction to the creation vs evolution debate.
KEY TERMS WHY IT MATTERS
Micro Evolution: changes in living creatures over time If the creation account found in
the first three chapters of Genesis
Macro Evolution: the origin of all living creatures from are just mythology and not actual
a single common ancestor history:
a: Human beings are not image-
Cosmic Evolution: the origin and evolution of the entire
bearers of God.
universe
b: Sin is not a part of reality.
Creation: God created the universe, planet earth, and
the variance of life we observe in six 24 hour days.
c: A Savior is not needed because
sin is not real.
Big Bang: All the matter and energy in the universe
expanded at the speed of light for less than a second d: The gospel is false because sin is
from the “cosmic egg” or “singularity” before slowing not real.
down to its current rate of expansion. All elements,
stars, planets, and life itself evolved on its own over e: Christianity is false because
the past 13.8 billion years. Jesus isn’t a Savior.
ARE SCIENCE AND FAITH OPPOSITES?
When properly defined, there is no conflict between science and faith:
Science is learning by observing the natural world.
Faith is trusting in what we can’t see based on the evidence we can.
Many who “do science” use methodological naturalism to do their work. This is the intentional
limiting of scientific explanation to only natural phenomena. This automatically excludes any
supernatural or divine conclusions BEFORE any investigation is made. Learning by observation
of the natural world is not anti-faith; constraining the answers before the investigation is.
© 2024 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.

The Origin of the Universe
from
The story of creation presented in the Bible is not compatible with the story evolution offers to explain
the origin of the universe and life. These two explanations differ at several points making them
completely irreconcilable. Here is a quick review of the some of the basic points at which these two
origin stories differ.
EVOLUTION CREATION
Beginning of the Universe: Beginning of the Universe:
The universe is the product of spontaneous The universe was created by the
self-generation. supernatural creator, God.
Origin of Life: Origin of Life:
Life spontaneously self-generated from non- Life was created by a supernatural life giver,
living matter. God.
Variance in Life Forms: Variance in Life Forms:
All living things are descended from a single Life was created as original “kinds” by God
common ancestor. and adapts over time.
Human Beings: Human Beings:
Human beings are the evolved descendants Human beings are a special creation made in
of the same common ancestor as all other the image of God.
living things.
Age of the Universe:
Age of the Universe: Creation was made in six days and is
The universe is 13.8 billion years old. between 6,000 to 10,00 years old.
THE ORIGIN PROBLEM HOW DOES THE UNIVERSE REVEAL GOD?
The universe is either: (a) eternal, (b) self- In the beginning, all space, time, matter, and
caused, (c) requires a cause outside itself. energy were created. This means the cause
of the universe must be spaceless, timeless,
a: the evidence shows this false. immaterial, and immensely powerful to
create the universe. The cause must also be
b: self-causation is irrational. an agent because things don’t choose or act.
c: the universe requires an external cause. This is exactly how the Bible describes God!
© 2024 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made
to the content. For questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.