THE GENESIS FLOOD
from
The most complicated issue about the Genesis Flood might just be understanding the flood itself. What
does the Bible say about the flooding of the earth? Is it even possible? How can we best interpret the
biblical text with current scientific understanding? Here is a brief introduction to the Genesis Flood.
THE PAST AND PRESENT
What we think about a question will have a direct affect on how we answer it. It is helpful before we
begin, to review assumptions that are often made before evidence is evaluated. One of the major
assumptions made in the scientific endeavor is about the relationship between the past and the
present. The phrase “the present is the key to the past” sums up the majority view within the scientific
community called, uniformitarianism. This is the belief that the way our world operates today is
mostly the way it has always operated. Rain falls, wind blows, and little changes happen over long
periods of time. The opposite view is catastrophism which holds that the past has been shaped by
large unusual disasters.
UNIFORMITARIANISM CATASTROPHISM
Uniformitarianism is the assumption that the Catastrophism is the assumption that there
past has always operated the way the present have been big, sudden disasters in the earth’s
does. Natural processes we observe today past. These events affected or altered the
would have remained unchanged in the past. natural processes we observe today.
THE FLOOD DESCRIPTION
The standard view of biblical inerrancy states that Scripture is truthful in what it says. This holds for
all matters, not merely spiritual ones. This means Christians should look to the Bible’s description
of the flood to test and see how it aligns with observations of our planet. While the Bible is not a
scientific text, it does make claims which can be investigated scientifically. Here are three clear
claims about the Genesis Flood from Scripture.
THE FOUNTAINS THE WINDOWS THE WATERS
Genesis 7:11 references the Genesis 7:11 references the Genesis 7:17 tells us the
fountains or springs “of the floodgates or windows “of waters “increased” until the
deep”. The term ‘deep’ here heaven” being opened. This whole earth was flooded. The
most likely refers to the is a direct reference to heavy waters remained for 150 days
oceans or large bodies of rain. It is possible, in light of before beginning to recede.
water. This implies whatever Genesis 2:5, that it had never (Genesis 7:24) This means the
caused the flood came from rained before this moment, whole earth was covered in
springs or fountains beneath or it had never rained at the water for almost five months!
the ocean floor. volume it did here.
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made to the content. For
questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.

THE GENESIS FLOOD
from
The most complicated issue about the Genesis Flood might just be understanding the flood itself. What
does the Bible say about the flooding of the earth? Is it even possible? How can we best interpret the
biblical text in with current scientific understanding? Here is a brief introduction to the Genesis Flood.
PLATE TECTONICS
One model that has been put forth by creation scientists to explain the geophysical workings of the
flood is called the Catastrophic Plate Tectonics (CPT) model. While the name may sound intimidating,
the workings of the model are both simple and line up with both the natural evidence and the Bible’s
description of the Genesis Flood. Three key aspects of the CPT model are the ocean floor, powerful
ocean geysers, and new land deposits.
OCEAN FLOOR OCEAN GEYSERS NEW LAND
The CPT model predicts that The CPT model predicts that The subduction of the ocean
the tectonic plates beneath hot magma from the earth’s floor would also create giant
of ocean floor cracked and mantle would superheat and tidal waves and surges that
one plate subducted, or was vaporize large amounts of sea would deposit large amounts
forced under the other into water resulting in massive of sediment and ocean life
the mantle and towards the oceanic geysers that would onto the existing land. This
earth’s core.. Ths violent erupt with more force than would not only leave fossil
break would draw up hot a volcano. The water vapor evidence, but also make the
magma from the earth’s would stream up from the resulting land masses taller
mantle directly into the cold ocean and possibly pierce the than they were originally.
sea water of the ocean floor. atmosphere itself.
PHYSICAL EVIDENCE
The Catastrophic Tectonic Model offers a good amount of explanatory power and scope. But, is there
any evidence to support the claims? Yes, there is. Here are three pieces of evidence that support the
CPT’s model of how the Genesis Flood could be explained.
MARINE FOSSILS CAMBRIAN EXPLOSION OCEAN CRUST
Fossils of marine life have The Cambrian Explosion is Creation scientists predicted
been discovered on all the a single layer in the fossil in the 1970’s that oceanic plate
continents of planet earth, record in which almost all life subduction could have caused
including Antarctica. This forms are found. This is clear the flood. Modern scientists
is not only evidence of a evidence a catastrophic event have observed evidence that
worldwide flood, but also of in the past happened in which part of an old ocean floor has
an original super-continent in animals died and became been subducted under the
which all land was connected. fossils on a worldwide scale. current newer ocean floor.
© 2025 Faith Makes Sense, Inc. All rights reserved.
This resource is free to reproduce for personal or local church use as long as no changes are made to the content. For
questions or assistance, contact us at: info@faithmakessense.com.