Good morning. Welcome to Catalyst. My name is Bill. Whether you are joining us here online or you're in on campus, let me try that again, whether you're here on campus or joining us online, welcome to Catalyst. So here at Catalyst we are about one thing and that is loving people to life change in Christ. Our job today is to tell you that we love you, but we love you enough to tell you the truth. I don't want you to remain the same. I hope that something in today's service, whether it be the worship or the prayer or the teaching, something motivates you and pushes you to do something new and to change and to grow in the depth of your relationship with God. Now we began a new series last week on the Holy Spirit. We are going to continue that this morning, but I have to tell you that I need to make a change. So last week when we talked about what we were going to do for the next five weeks, I told you today that we were going to talk about the Holy Spirit's words. We're not going to talk about the Holy Spirit's words because as I tried to study that and figure out how do I teach that and one Sunday it was just not going to work. So I re-broke it up and instead we're going to do, today we're going to talk about the Holy Spirit and how he worked in the Old Testament and next Sunday we're going to talk about how he worked in the New Testament so that I could still make that differentiation. But here's the key thought that sort of brings all of these messages together. The Holy Spirit is a necessary part of the Christian life. We must understand what the Bible says about him. Remember last week we learned that the Holy Spirit is a divine person not a thing. That's why we refer to him with pronouns. That's why he's able to have an intellect, to have a will. I also told you that because this is a topical series we're not going to use just one passage like I would normally do. Go to a single passage, give you the history and and walk through it because I'm trying to teach you a bigger picture, a bigger principle. So we're going to be using a lot of different verses this morning. You'll notice if you look on the back of your bulletin there's like a giant amount of verses that I called self-study. Let me just let me just, whoo, everybody calm down. I'm not gonna preach all those verses, okay? Anthony, I'm not gonna put you guys through all of that. But I did look at all of them and you know what? I thought it was really pointful to share those with you so that if you wanted to go further and to go deeper in looking at the Holy Spirit in activity in the Old Testament, did you had those references? If you're joining us online, I know that you don't have one of those bulletins. But if you'll just let me know on your online connect card when we get to the end of the message that you would like to have the self-study list, I will be happy to email you. It's a list of, I don't know, there's probably 20, 30 different passages there that all show the Holy Spirit's activity in the Old Testament. Also this series is built around a Q&A format. I'm gonna ask a question and then I'm gonna answer it. So here's this week's question. This week's question and answer. What did the Holy Spirit do in the Old Testament? What did the Holy Spirit do in the Old Testament? Here is the answer to that question. The Holy Spirit prepares God's plans and empowers His people. The Holy Spirit prepares God's plans and empowers God's people. Now I also need to teach you a term today. So when we are talking about the doctrine of the Holy Spirit, that's like super churchy words, right? So let's break that down. Doctrine is basically just right teaching. What is correct teaching? What is the opposite of correct teaching? Incorrect teaching, but I heard somebody say it, heresy. So if you are teaching orthodoxy, which is the technical term for right teaching, then you're teaching good stuff. If you're outside of orthodoxy or bad teaching or heresy, you're teaching bad stuff. When we talk about the doctrine of the Holy Spirit, we're really saying what does the whole of the Bible say about the Holy Spirit? So I got to tell you up front before somebody asks the question, Dave, why did God just not say everything He needed to say in Genesis chapter 1? Has anybody ever wondered that? Why is it that God chose to reveal His plan over time throughout human history? Here's the single best theological answer I can give you. You ready? Why did God not say everything in Genesis 1 1? I think it's funny sometimes that we must recognize, I can't always tell you why God does what He does, right? I think that one's still above my pay grade. He's the boss. I'm just middle management, but I can tell you what God says because that's in His Word, and the doctrine of the Holy Spirit is called progressive revelation. Now hold on, don't don't anybody get itchy yet. I'll explain what progressive revelation is. There's this idea that progressive means what it means politically or ideologically. That's false. What progressive revelation means is as the plan of God played out on the pages of Scripture and on the canvas of human history, He reveals more about the Holy Spirit. That does not mean that the Holy Spirit got invented along the way. That's why we started at the very beginning. The Holy Spirit is at creation. The Holy Spirit is God which means He is eternal just as God the Father, God the Son. That's foundational, but the activity of the Holy Spirit, the function of the Holy Spirit, those are things that are revealed as the pages of Scripture unfold. So progressive revelation has nothing to do with contemporary culture or political ideology. All it simply means is that God did not reveal His entire plan for humanity all at once. He gave us knowledge of Himself and His plans over time. In order to better understand the activity and the ministry of the Holy Spirit, we need to be looking at His work in two different stages. The Old Testament and then the New Testament so you can see how that progressive revelation works. Does that make sense to everybody? So I had to sort of do a little bob and weave on Monday as I was studying because quite frankly Lisa, if we were going to talk about all that the Holy Spirit said, it was going to be way more than a Sunday morning. And I know that everybody wants their Taco Bell. So I'm going to do my best to just limit our scope to just the Old Testament. So the Holy Spirit's name in the Old Testament. Let's start with that. The Holy Spirit's name in the Old Testament, the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God. That's basically the same thing as the Holy Spirit, but in the Old Testament, He is referred to as the Spirit of God. The term Holy Spirit really doesn't appear until the New Testament. Now again, is the Holy Spirit God? That's not a rhetorical question. I need a yes or no. Is the Holy Spirit God? So that means He exists in the Old Testament. Right. So just because we use two different terms to describe the same person, the Holy Spirit, does that mean He's still real? Right. Just like my first name is William, but most people call me Bill. I don't stop existing because people call me William instead of Bill. The Holy Spirit is referred to as the Spirit of God. What I would like to show you today is five instances of the Holy Spirit's activity in the Old Testament. The reference list at the back of your bulletin is the rest of the story. For you Paul Harvey fans. For those of you who have no idea what I'm talking about, you're a fetus. I'm sorry. I gave you five. We're gonna, I'm just gonna trust that if you want to see more, that you'll be able to see those. So first, turn or tap in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. Let's look at the very first activity of the Holy Spirit in all of the Bible, the very first two verses of Scripture. Genesis chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. I'm gonna read them first and then we're gonna show what the Holy Spirit was doing. So here it is. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Verse 2. Now the earth was formless and empty. Darkness was over the surface of the deep and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. So it's the very first two verses in all of Scripture. Let's go back to verse 1 first. In the beginning, and I know we did a whole series on this, so I'm not gonna go super deep right here, but in the beginning means, in the beginning, means there's nothing before this moment because God is timeless. He exists outside of all space, time, matter, and energy. When God created the very beginning of the universe, he created what you and I know as time. Time is the fourth dimension of the fabric of the universe in which you and I exist. It's made up of time, space, matter, and energy. Time is uniquely interwoven into the reality in which we exist. God, however, is timeless. He exists outside of our 4D space-time universe. If you want more, give more questions about that, put on your connect card. 4D space-time universe. We'll talk about that. So in the beginning, God created, that's the first action. God created the heavens and the earth. Now we go to verse 2. Now we're describing the earth. So in verse 1, God creates the cosmos, the universe, everything that exists. It exists now. Now verse 2, the earth. You notice how as soon as we make it to verse 2, Miss Barbara, we incredibly limited the scope of what we're looking at. Verse 1, cosmos, universe, everything. What's the first two words of, or first three words? Now the earth. Starting in verse 2, scripture limits its scope. We are not talking about Venus. We are not talking about the redheaded stepchild of cosmology, Pluto, who I'm sorry should still be a planet. It was a planet when I was good school. I don't understand why all of a sudden he was like less planets, right? But we're not talking about Pluto. We're not talking about Venus. We are not talking about the the stars that the new, the James Webb, right? That's the new, that's the new camera we threw out in space. The James Webb telescope that can now see farther than the Hubble. We're not talking about anything that it sees. When we get to verse 2, we limit the scope. Now the earth. Bring it down to the planet on which we exist. Now the earth was formless and empty. Darkness was over the surface of the deep. I'm not gonna go super deep into that. I just need you to see that the earth was not done being prepared for the life that God wanted to put on it. Now look at the back half of verse 2. Here comes the Spirit of God. And the Spirit of God was hovering. Did you notice in verse 1, God, primary actor, create, primary verb. Here in verse 2, who's the primary active agent in verse 2? The Spirit of God. And what is the action that the Spirit of God is doing? Hovering. Now that's not hovering like a drone or a hovercraft. That word hovering, it literally means brooding. Like an eagle broods over its nest. That's what that word hovering means in the Greek. It doesn't just mean... Okay, again, if you were thinking of the Holy Spirit as the force and not a person, you might just see the force floating in the air, right? Can you see why it's important we need to see him as a person? So then we can ask, well what is the person of the Holy Spirit doing by hovering? That word hovering literally means as an eagle spreads its wings and protects its nest. The Holy Spirit is the active agent of God who is preparing the pre-inhabited earth to receive the creation that God is going to make in the following verses. That is the Holy Spirit's activity at the very beginning of the world. Verse 1 was all about the cosmos. Verse 2 is all about this planet right here that you and I walk on every day. The Holy Spirit is the active agent of God who hovered or brooded and prepared the pre-inhabited earth to receive all the life that God was going to create. Does that make sense? So again, the Holy Spirit prepares God's plans and empowers God's people. In Genesis 1, 1, he is preparing the pre-inhabited earth for the life that God would create. Then we get to the end of the days of creation. What is the culmination of God's creative act on earth? What's the culmination? The number only thing that he said now creation is very good. People. That was it. Humanity. We get all the way to verse 6 and what does God create? He created humanity, placed it here on earth, and then God says and now it is very good. The Holy Spirit was the preparing agent. He was the sous chef getting the mise en plan ready for God to do all he was going to do in days 1 through 6. I watched a lot of cooking shows with my wife. I have no idea what it said, so if I insulted anybody, I'm sorry. All right, so first the Holy Spirit is the active agent preparing. Now, take your Bibles and turn your top with me to the end of the book of Genesis. Let's go to Genesis chapter 41. We're going to look at verses 38 to 40. Genesis chapter 41, 38 to 40. We're still at the very beginning of the Bible. Now we're going to watch the Spirit of God move through a young man that I think is pretty famous as far as Bible stories go. To give you the back story, we are now in the story of Joseph. Joseph has been sold into slavery by his brothers. He has been a slave in Egypt for a minimum of what I think is about 13 years. He has risen through the ranks. He has been, he's in the prison beneath Pharaoh's house. God gives the king of Egypt, Pharaoh, a dream, and then one of the servants goes, wait a minute. I knew this guy back on cell block C. He could totally interpret dreams. We should go back there, see if he's still there. And they bring Joseph in front of Pharaoh, and Joseph, through the Spirit of God, is able to interpret Pharaoh's dreams. So that's the back story. Now let's look at verse 38. So Pharaoh asked them, can we find anyone like this man, or like this man, one in whom is the Spirit of God? Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, since God has made all this known to you, there is no one so discerning and wise as you. You shall be in charge of my palace, and all my people are to submit to your orders. Only with respect to the throne will I be greater than you. This is the Holy Spirit moving in the person of Joseph, giving him the supernatural ability to interpret the dreams that Pharaoh had. Pop quiz, who gave Pharaoh the dreams? God did. Totally right. God gave Pharaoh the dreams. Who gave Joseph the ability to interpret the dreams? The Holy Spirit did. What was the purpose of the dreams? Now we got to do a little interpretation. In my opinion, here's my take on it. The purpose of the dream was to place Joseph in the correct place. But then the next question's got to be asked, well Megan, why? Because what were the dreams about? If you read the whole story of Joseph, the dreams were about seven years of plenty and seven years of famine. God used the famine to drive Jacob and his family into Egypt. He sent Joseph ahead of them to prepare a place where the people of God would be able to be protected by the nation of Egypt. I call it the Egyptian incubator. That's how I look at this part of the Bible story. God uses the pagan nation of Egypt as an incubator to allow his people to grow and flourish. The entire time they lived in Egypt, they didn't have to defend their own borders. Why? Because they lived in the nation with the most powerful military and economic power of its day. Egypt protected Israel even when it didn't know it was doing so. But in order to get Jacob and his sons and his grandchildren into Egypt, God had to drive him towards Egypt. So God sends Joseph ahead of time, uses his brother's jealousy and ultimately Joseph's teenage pride. Yes, he was super prideful. Let's just give teenagers a break. They're not done developing yet. Teenagers can be annoying but they're still good people, right? Right? Come on, that's good. They said... That was not the amen moment, Dan. You missed it. Wait till I talk about how beautiful your wife is. That's the amen moment. But God uses Joseph, places him in the right place, creates the circumstances around him in order to drive the people of Israel into Egypt. And then the Spirit of God gives Joseph the key to the whole situation. Now, without going super deep into the whole story, can you see how God's divine hand are wrapped around the whole situation? Pushing the right person in the right place at the right time and then the Holy Spirit moves on the one individual who can solve the problem. He gets put into the position of authority and then ultimately if you read the rest of the story of Joseph, Pharaoh tells Joseph, that's your daddy. You go give him whatever land you want. We'll move everybody out of the way. Pharaoh actually gives the land of Goshen which is where Jacob and his family lived in Egypt before they became slaves. They lived in the land of Goshen. Pharaoh gave Joseph the power to place them in the incubator. None of that would have happened without this moment right here. Verse 38, please. So Pharaoh asked them, them is all of Pharaoh's court, can anyone, can we find anyone like this man, one in whom is the Spirit of God? Keep in mind that's a pagan king of a pagan nation recognizing the presence of the Holy Spirit in Joseph. So that's the Holy Spirit here in Genesis 41. Joseph, don't be wrong, Joseph was totally faithful. Joseph is one of those stories that I really really resonate with because I feel like I have had to fight my way up from the bottom, right? Like I had to fight for legitimacy. When I first got into ministry, I didn't have an education. I know how to work hard, I know how to serve hard. You know I had a lot of musical skills. So early on in my career, it was Melian Mines gifts and skills that opened doors for us. But I still had to be a good servant. I had to work hard at learning things because I didn't go to college first. And so I had that blue collar mentality. Now of course I have a white collar education but I'm still more comfortable with blue collar people because that's who I am on the inside. You know I'd still rather see the gospel wearing Nikes and blue jeans than in suits and ties. It just makes more sense to me. So I feel a lot like Joseph having to to be faithful and then be rewarded over time. It makes sense to me and I don't want to lessen Joseph's faithfulness but Joseph didn't create the situation. Joseph didn't send the famine. Joseph didn't send the dream and Joseph didn't gift himself. All of that was God working through Joseph. Does that make sense? So the Holy Spirit prepared planet Earth for our arrival. The Holy Spirit gifted Joseph in order to save God's people. Now let's move forward to the next book of the Bible. Let's go to the book of Exodus. We're gonna go to chapter 31. Exodus chapter 31. While you're turning there, we'll fast forward in our big Bible story. The children of Israel go into slavery in Egypt. They cry out for a redeemer. God sends them a redeemer named Moses. Moses had a brother named Aaron. Ultimately Moses and Aaron and a sister named Miriam. There you go. Come on man. Right? So Moses and Aaron and Miriam, they lead the children Israel out. They cross the Red Sea. They are now in the 40-year wilderness wandering period but God wants to be with his people so he gives them the instructions to build his temporary house. God tells the nation of Israel to build them a travel trailer and it is called the, starts with a T, the tabernacle. That's right. God tells them guys I want an RV. I want to hang out with you and so you're gonna build me a tabernacle. Where we're about to read right here in Exodus chapter 31 is at the beginning of the construction of God's temporary home among his people. I call it the temporary home because after God resided in the tabernacle, they move into Jerusalem and then they build the permanent home called the temple. That's right. Difference between the tabernacle and the temple. The tabernacle moved around with God's people. The temple stayed in one place and God's people came to it. Small difference there but here in Exodus 31, I want to read 11 verses and show you what the Holy Spirit does here. Then the Lord said to Moses, see I have chosen Bezalel son of Uri, the son of her of the tribe of Judah. I have filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom, with understanding, with knowledge, with all kinds of skills to make artistic designs for work in gold, silver, and bronze. To cut and set stones, to work in wood, to engage in all kind of crafts. Moreover, I have appointed Oholiab, the son of Ashamak, the tribe of Dan to help him. I have given ability to all the skilled workers to make everything I have commanded you. The tent of meeting, the Ark of the Covenant law with the atonement cover on it and all the furnishings of the tent, the table and its articles, the pure gold lampstand and all its accessories, the altar of incense, the altar of burnt offering, and all its utensils, the basin with its stand, and also the woven garments, both the sacred garments for Aaron and the priest and the garments for his sons when they serve as priests and the anointing oil, the fragrant incense for the holy place. They are to make them just as I commanded you. Now I know that's a really big list, but let's rewind back for a second. Go to verse 3 please. This is God. Notice the capital letters in verse 1, that's Jehovah, I mean that's Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel. He said, I've chosen them, and this is what verse 3 says, I have filled him with the spirit of God. This is the Holy Spirit. What is the Holy Spirit doing in this verse? The Holy Spirit is gifting artisans and artists to be able to create God's temporary home among his people with the best of their abilities. This is one of my favorite passages most people don't look at for the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit made artists and craftsmen and artisans, gave them the supernatural ability to create the home that God wanted for himself without them having to learn those skills. Mr. Phil, where are you? I know you're here somewhere as I saw you this morning. Mr. Phil, there you are. Mr. Phil is a craftsman. He is amazing at what he's able to build and do and make things. Can you imagine me trying to do, like right, come on, Mr. Phil's laughing at me. Can you imagine me trying to do Mr. Phil like things? Like I can barely open the wrapper on a straw without breaking the straw. Does anybody ever do that? You get a straw and you're trying to unwrap it and all of a sudden you put a hole in the straw and then every time you draw to drink through the straw, then I get a bunch of air. Mr. Phil can take like random scraps of things and turn them into beautiful piece of craftsmanship. He has a lifetime worth of skills, knowledge, abilities, and artistic creativity. God created an army of Mr. Phil's in an instant. He gifted artists with the ability to make God's home beautiful. Keep in mind, this is fashion not just function. I'm a very function person. Like I have to ask my daughter Emily, does my church outfit look okay? Because I don't understand, like I can't put an outfit together and know what looks good and what doesn't look good and so now my 11 year old daughter has more fashion sense than I do and so I'll pull out my church outfit and if my wife is doing her hair and removing makeup or whatever, I'll be like, Emily, am I allowed to go to church in this? Because I just don't have that ability. My daughter is beautiful and amazing and her artistic abilities are wonderful, better than mine. God created an army of artists with the ability to glorify him by building his plans and making his temporary home gorgeous, fashionable, beautiful. This is a moment where the Holy Spirit gives stills and abilities to artisans to build a tabernacle. Now, I will say as a musician, right? So, I have an earthly ability to understand music. That is not a Holy Spirit gift. I went to school. I learned music theory. I learned how to understand chords and sheet music and I know how to read sheet music. None of that is a Holy Spirit gift because I can pick up my guitar and play a worship song and I could pick up my guitar and play something off of the radio with the same level of skill. That's a skill that I learned that is not a Holy Spirit gift that I was given, right? So, I don't want to, I don't want you to hear mistakenly that I am saying all artistic abilities come from the Lord because then that would mean that anything that's art would automatically glorify God and we know that's not the case, right? There's plenty of things that are labeled art that are not necessarily directly glorifying God but in this instance right here in Exodus 31, the Holy Spirit moved on an entire group of people and everybody can build like Mr. Phil and decorate cakes like Kim and Sharita. I don't know about you but that sounds like a really cool party. So, another thing that the Holy Spirit, and now here's the question, is the Holy Spirit God? Yep. Does that mean the Holy Spirit can still do today what he did then? Yes. So, doesn't that mean that the Holy Spirit can, when he chooses, still give out artisan level abilities today? Yes. How many people have never heard that passage before? Anybody? Yeah. This is not one that we talk about a lot when we talk about the Holy Spirit but I think it's so important to understand. There were, and they were building a physical thing, you know? It's not just like the Holy Spirit gave me the ability to translate the Word of God. No. This was, they were building God's house. They were cutting lumber and carving and covering wood with molten gold. I mean they were doing some really cool stuff all by the power of the Holy Spirit. Here we go, number four. Let's just keep turning our Bibles. Now go to the book of Numbers. Numbers chapter 11. Numbers chapter 11. So the Holy Spirit prepared the planet. The Holy Spirit gave Joseph supernatural abilities. The Holy Spirit gave the builders of the tabernacle artisan level abilities. Here in Numbers chapter 11, so the book of Numbers, while you're turning to Numbers 11, so the book of Numbers exists during the wilderness wandering period. Numbers literally are the numbers of God's people. It's the census of who wandered during the wilderness wandering period. So pop quiz, how long is the wilderness wandering period? 40 years. That's right. Here in Numbers chapter 11, we're at the beginning of that and Moses has a problem. He's the only leader of an entire nation of people who can't figure out how to get along. So now let's look at verses 16 and 17. The Lord said to Moses, bring me the 70 of Israel's elders who are known to you as leaders and officials among the people. Have them come to the tent of meeting that they may stand there with you. Verse 17, I will come down and speak with you there and I will take some of the power of the Spirit that is on you and put it on them. They will share the burden of the people with you so that you will not have to carry it alone. So again, we're in the wilderness wandering period post-Exodus but we haven't moved into Canaan yet and now Moses has a leadership problem. Now, I think what's really interesting, so here's what I need you to note. Go back to verse 16 for me for a second. I need you to see a couple of things. Number one, the number of elders. The number 70. When you get to the New Testament, this is why there's 70 people on the Sanhedrin. Just so you understand. The Sanhedrin was the 70 elders of Israel. This verse is where they get that number from. That's why the Sanhedrin was 70 plus the high priest. So in case anybody's wondering, that's where that number comes from. Also notice he chose elders who were already known to you as leaders and officials. They already had the respect of the people. They were already skilled in leadership. So what is the Holy Spirit giving them if they're already leaders and officials? The Holy Spirit is moving on them not just to be government leaders or organizational leaders. The Holy Spirit came off of Moses and onto them making them spiritual leaders in Israel. This is another thing that the Holy Spirit does and what is he doing? He's preparing God's plans. He's empowering God's people. Now the nation of Israel doesn't just have the big three, Moses, Aaron, Miriam, but now they've got Moses who's the prophet, Aaron who's the priest, Miriam who's I would submit to you probably the first worship leader in the Bible. I think that's fair. When we look at the story of Exodus, just short little excursive for Miriam for those of you not familiar with the relationship between the three. Moses was the prophet, Aaron was the priest. Miriam, their sister, was the one who led all of the worship on the way out of Exodus. The Bible says that she led the women of Israel in praising God as they left for the freedom. So Miriam shows up a couple of times in the book of Numbers. Her and Aaron decide to have an attitude problem with Moses. God strikes Miriam down with leprosy. She's got to move out for like a week before she can come back. So there's a lot of drama between the three, but I think sometimes we talk about Moses, Moses, Moses and we forget that Moses had a brother and sister and Aaron and Miriam were a big part of what God was doing in that season. So Miriam's a super fun character to read about. Here, although sorry for the excursus, now back to the 70. That's the ADHD in me. Moses cannot sustain being the spiritual leader of God's people alone. This is also why I believe Paul in the New Testament appoints elders over all the churches. No one person can carry the weight of spiritual leadership of a group. No one pastor can carry the weight of a spiritual leadership of an entire church. That's why here at Catalyst, we have a plurality of elders. We share the spiritual responsibility. When I'm sitting at the table or on the zoom screen, we do a lot of our meetings via zoom. When I am sitting at the table with the other elders, I tell them all the time, I am no better or no worse than they are. In fact, I will refer to him as Pastor Buzzy, Pastor Bill and Pastor Jim. Because biblically there is no difference between the word pastor and the word elder. It just happens to me that my function is the one up here teaching and Bill carries a different function and Jim carries a different function and Buzzy's function right now is get better. That's his ministry. Get better. But this is where we get that from. We get in my opinion, the plurality of elders in the New Testament is built on God's example here. This was God's solution for Moses. Moses didn't go to God and be like, Dan, oh my goodness. These people are driving me nuts. Will you please do something? Will you please get your people to shut up? No. This was God coming to Moses. Look at the very beginning of 16. The Lord said to Moses, bring me to 70. It was God's solution that the Holy Spirit would empower leaders to lead spiritually. So the Holy Spirit prepares the planet. The Holy Spirit spoke through Joseph. The Holy Spirit gave artisan level abilities for the tabernacle. The Holy Spirit calls elders and leaders to be spiritual. Number five. Now let's go to the book of Judges. The book of Judges number three. Sorry. Chapter three. The book of Judges chapter three. I only want to look at verses 10 and 11. So while you're turning to Judges three, we'll follow the big Bible story. We finish the wilderness wandering period. We get ready. We move into the land of Canaan. That's the end of Deuteronomy, the beginning of the book of Joshua. When they finally move into the land of Canaan, everyone does what is right in their own eyes. That's the main theme of the book of Judges. They do what's right in their own eyes and God has to empower certain individuals to protect his people. So here in Judges chapter three, let's look at verses 10 and 11. The Spirit of the Lord came on him so that he became Israel's judge and went to war. The Lord gave, and that's a big giant name, isn't it? Cushan Rasha-thayam, that one. King of Aram. Into the hands of Othniel who overpowered him. And then verse 11. So the land had peace for 40 years until Othniel son of Canaan's died. Also you don't have to turn there, but you will see in chapter 634, the Spirit of the Lord came on Gideon. In 1129, the Spirit of the Lord came on Japheth and in 146, the Spirit of the Lord came on Samson. During this period of Israel's history, the Spirit of the Lord, the Spirit of God came on someone and empowered them. Othniel being the one that, in fact, I think I was, Lisa, I think I was talking to Jim the other day and I mentioned the name Othniel and he looked at me he was like, okay pastor, are you like messing with me? Is that name like in the book? Because it's only mentioned in three or four verses. If you've not read through the depth of the book of Judges, you can pass over Othniel real fast. But here in chapter 3, Othniel becomes a judge. He goes to war. Why? To protect God's people in God's land. So here, the Holy Spirit filled the judges of ancient Israel to protect and lead God's people. So the Holy Spirit prepared the planet for us. He gave Joseph the ability to interpret dreams. He gave the artisans who built the tabernacle the ability to do that. He gives the judges in order to lead. Now, I'm not going to have you turn here because I'm running a little fast. So I'm just going to give you point 6 and 7 with the references. You'll have to look them up. In 1st Samuel chapter 16, 11 to 14, the Holy Spirit anointed the kings of Israel to lead the people in obedience. Pop quiz. Who is the name of the first of the United Monarchy of Israel? Starts with an S. Saul. Followed by? That's right. Saul, David, Solomon. It's the Spirit of God that anointed the ancient kings of Israel. In fact, the original kings of Israel, one of the things if you read there, they were required to do was hand write their own translation of God, their own copy of God's law. Saul had to do it. David had to do it. Solomon had to do it. Why? Because to spend that amount of time with the Word of God. That the Spirit inspired the Word of God as well. That was one of the things. So that's 1st Samuel chapter 16, 11 through 14. And then the seventh point is in the book of Ezekiel chapter 37 verses 11 to 14. The Holy Spirit spoke through the prophets about his future work in and with God's people. So that's Ezekiel chapter 37 verses 11 to 14. I'm not going to go super in-depth into those two passages but you need to understand after the United Monarchy of Israel, after Solomon fractures civil war, then they go into exile, then they come back. During all of that period, the divided kingdom period, the exile period, and the post exilic period, God spoke to his people through prophets. The Spirit of God would come on someone and he would be God's representative among God's people, calling them back to him and letting them know what's coming. That's how when we get out of the end of the Old Testament, there's an expectation of a forerunner and a Messiah. Why? Because the Spirit of God empowered the prophets to try to tell God's people what was coming. Just like Jonah went to the Ninevites and said, hey man, y'all got 40 days and God's gonna kill you unless you repent. And then of course he goes up on the mountain and has bad attitude and we we talked about that earlier. The Spirit of God is active and the reason I chose these seven passages, so here it is, here's why it all goes together. I wanted you to see the Spirit of God active in and through God's people in every stage of development throughout the Old Testament. He's there at creation. He's there in the patriarchal period with Joseph. He's there in the Exodus and the land period with Moses, with the building of the tabernacle, with the judges. He's there in the United Kingdom period with the kings. He's there in the divided kingdom and exile and post-exile period in the prophets. The Holy Spirit has prepared God's plans and empowered God's people since Genesis 1.1. Don't start your theology of the Holy Spirit with Acts chapter 2 because you're missing the biggest part of Scripture. The Holy Spirit has always been active in God's people. Yes, now when we get to next week, I'll give you a little preview. We're gonna start next week with the Gospels, not with Acts chapter 2 because I said the Holy Spirit's activity in the New Testament. So I've got to talk about the Holy Spirit's activity in the Gospels before we get to Acts chapter 2. But when Acts chapter 2 happens and the day of Pentecost, which is the day that the Christian church that you and I are part of is born, the Holy Spirit's relationship with humanity changes permanently. On that one day, everything about the Holy Spirit changes. That's why you got to come back next Sunday. I'm not gonna explain it right now. But so many times in Christian church, we look to Acts chapter 2 or in the Corinthians where Paul's giving instructions about the gifts of the Spirit. We start our theology with what the Spirit's doing in the church now, not with what the Spirit did throughout God's people throughout all of Scripture. I wanted you to see that in every one of those periods of the Old Testament, the Spirit of God was in his people preparing his plans so they could do his work. If God was, if the Spirit of God was that active then, why would we think he's any less active today? Post Pentecost, post Acts 2 when our relationship with him has changed. So here's the takeaway. Here's where we're gonna bring this in for a landing. The Holy Spirit prepares God's plans and empowers God's people. That's what I've been saying all morning. So here's your challenge. What is God doing in your life and how are you participating through the power of the Spirit? Because I just showed you the Holy Spirit's life and the Holy Spirit's activity in the life of God's people is not a New Testament issue. It's an entire scriptural issue. It's from the beginning. The Holy Spirit was brooding over the planet before humanity was ever created, preparing God's plans. So the question that I must leave you with, which is your motivational moment, do you know what God is doing in your life or are you in the Holy Spirit just sort of sitting in neutral? We go to church, we learn about him. Some of us refer to him when we pray. Some of us may ask him for help, guidance, counselor, those things. Those are wonderful. We'll get to it when we get to the New Testament. But if the Holy Spirit has been active with God's people since Genesis 1 1, is he active in your life? Because you don't need Acts chapter 2 to establish that the Holy Spirit should be active in your life. I could have done that in Genesis 1 1. That's why I had to do it this way. Eric, we had to break it Old Testament and New Testament so that I could show you the depth of the Holy Spirit's work in the people of God before Jesus ever came, died, and rose. Now our relationship with the Holy Spirit is different today. I'll give you that. We'll get to it next week. But what is the Holy Spirit doing in your life? How is God moving? And not only how is God moving, but how are you responding through the Holy Spirit to God's activity in your life?